Luffy is cast at sea in a barrel. Sailors on a passing cruise ship retrieve the barrel, but the ship is attacked with cannon fire by a nearby pirate ship, led by Alvida. The barrel is sent rolling into the kitchen. Once the cruise ship's sails have been destroyed, the Alvida Pirates board the ship to plunder its goods, and Alvida also forces one of her chore boys, Koby, to board the ship. Meanwhile, a girl takes advantage of the opportunity and sneaks aboard the Alvida Pirates' ship to steal its treasures.
Koby and other pirates notice the barrel in the kitchen and find Luffy inside, who was sleeping. After Luffy defeats the hostile pirates, he goes with Koby to the pantry to eat the stored food. Luffy explains that he set sail to begin his pirating career, but his dinghy was destroyed by a whirlpool and he was left trapped at sea in a barrel. Koby explains that he was riding on a rowboat, but was kidnapped by the Alvida Pirates and forced to become a chore boy. He explains his desires to escape the Alvida Pirates some day and join the Marines.
Alvida is informed of Luffy's presence, and, out of suspicion that he could be a bounty hunter, confronts him and Koby in the pantry. This triggers a battle on the ship, but Luffy defeats the pirates. Although Alvida is armed with a large spiked club, her attacks are rendered ineffective, as Luffy ate a Devil Fruit, granting him a superhuman ability that gives his body rubber-like properties. Using a Gomu Gomu no Pistol attack, Luffy defeats Alvida, sending her flying off the ship and into the sea.
Having concluded the battle, Luffy boards a dinghy with Koby to continue his travels, catching a glimpse of the female burglar who was also departing the ship on her own dinghy. Luffy aims towards the Grand Line to search for the One Piece treasure but first looks to recruit the infamous Pirate Hunter Roronoa Zoro into his crew.

Luffy and Koby arrive at Shells Town, a town where a Marine base is stationed. They find their target, Roronoa Zoro, crucified at the base. A small girl, Rika, sneaks into the base to offer Zoro onigiri, but she is stopped by Helmeppo, a snobbish man who destroys the onigiri. However, Zoro later eats the dirt-stained rice.
Outside the Marine base, Rika reveals that the town was run by a tyrannical Captain Morgan, who allowed his son, Helmeppo, to regularly abuse his citizens. One day, Helmeppo brought a hostile wolf into a bar which attacked the customers and ate their food. When Zoro attacked Helmeppo for his cruelty, Helmeppo threatened to execute all customers in the bar unless Zoro turned himself into the Marines, where he would be crucified for one month.
Later, Helmeppo reveals that he intended to execute Zoro, violating the deal he had struck with him. Luffy assaults him for his dishonesty, then heads towards the Marine base to locate Zoro's confiscated katanas. As Morgan orders his men to erect a large statue of himself on the base's rooftop, Luffy launches himself towards the rooftop, accidentally destroying the statue in the process. Luffy grabs Helmeppo and flees, searching the building and locating the katanas. Meanwhile, the girl who robbed the Alvida Pirates' ship also infiltrates the Marine base to steal its goods.
Meanwhile, Koby attempts to free Zoro from the cross, but is spotted by Morgan, who orders his men to open fire on them both. They are stopped by Luffy, who deflects the bullets with his rubber body.

Luffy returns the katana to Zoro, who uses them to free himself and repel the Marines' attacks. He agrees to join Luffy's crew should he survive. Despite being clearly overpowered by Luffy's Devil Fruit power and Zoro's Three Sword Style, Morgan orders his men to attack them.
Morgan himself joins the battle, with his right hand being replaced by an axe blade. Despite Luffy overpowering Morgan, Helmeppo holds Koby hostage, threatening to shoot him. Meanwhile, as Luffy is distracted, Morgan attempts to attack him from behind. Luffy punches Helmeppo in the face and Zoro cuts Morgan down, preventing him from harming Luffy. The Marines, who were aware of Morgan's numerous abuses of power, decide not to continue the battle, instead dishonorably discharging and arresting their own captain.
Luffy, Zoro and Koby go to a restaurant to celebrate their victory. Koby explains how the world is divided. The world is divided into west and east by a continent called the Red Line, and the Grand Line is a linear sea perpendicular to the Red Line. Legendary pirate Gold Roger claimed he had hidden his treasure at the very end of the Grand Line.
Ripper, the Marine who had succeeded Morgan as the new base commander, confronts Luffy. He agrees to accept Koby into the Marines upon his request. However, due to Luffy and Zoro's statuses as pirates, he orders them both to leave the town, only promising not to inform headquarters as a gesture of gratitude. Luffy and Zoro agree, and they both continue their travels.
Meanwhile, a girl searches the Marine base for a map of the Grand Line. She discovers that the map had been stolen by another pirate, Buggy. She sets sail to confront Buggy and retrieve his map.

The burglar girl's dinghy is discovered by three Buggy Pirates while at sea. Pretending to be a desperate, stranded woman, she lures the pirates on her boat with promises of treasure. However, she secretly boards the Buggy Pirates' boat and sails away from them without their knowledge. The ship the pirates are on capsizes from a windstorm.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Zoro sail towards their next destination, but Luffy loses his signature straw hat when the boat jostles. Zoro recovers the hat, and its significance to Luffy is explained.
In his childhood, Luffy befriended Shanks, a pirate captain residing in his home village. While Luffy and the Red Hair Pirates were at a bar, Luffy unknowingly ate the Gomu Gomu no Mi, a Devil Fruit Shanks had acquired during his travels. Upon eating the fruit, Luffy's body immediately gained rubber-like properties, but he had permanently lost the ability to swim. 
However, Luffy was terrorized and threatened by Higuma and his group of mountain bandits. Although Shanks and his pirates came to his aid, Higuma escaped, abducting Luffy. Higuma sailed out to sea on a small rowboat and threw Luffy into the sea for him to drown. However, a Sea King, a carnivorous sea monster, appeared and devoured Higuma whole, threatening to target Luffy next. Shanks rescued Luffy, but he lost his left arm in the process. 
Eventually, the Red Hair Pirates departed from Foosha Village and set sail for the Grand Line. Just before he left, Shanks entrusted Luffy with his straw hat for him to protect. Throughout the years, Luffy cherished his hat to remind him of his idol. 
Back to the present day, Luffy is abducted by a bird and sent flying away. The Buggy Pirates who were left stranded in the sea discover Zoro's rowboat, board it, and attempt to hijack it, but are swiftly defeated by him. The Buggy Pirates explain that Buggy is a fearsome pirate with his own Devil Fruit ability. 
Meanwhile, the bird lets go of Luffy after being shot down by cannon fire, causing Luffy to fall into Buggy's territory. He meets the female thief for the first time, who had stolen the map and was being pursued by Buggy Pirates.

The girl introduces herself as Nami, a thief targeting and stealing from pirates. After collaborating with Luffy to escape from the Buggy Pirates, they find refuge at a restaurant, where Nami reveals her goal of collecting 100 million Berries for an unknown cause. She then goes on and reveals her navigation skills.
Nami betrays Luffy, tying him up and handing him over to the Buggy Pirates as a gesture of good will. Buggy accepts, locks Luffy into a cage, and prepares a Buggy Ball, a powerful, explosive cannonball. Buggy's pirates fire the cannon into the distance, destroying an entire row of houses. Zoro, who has just arrived at the town, notices the explosion.
Buggy then orders Nami to fire a Buggy Ball at Luffy, but she refuses to do so. Another pirate lights the cannon's fuse for her, but Nami extinguishes the fuse with her bare hands, burning herself. Buggy orders his pirates to attack her.
Zoro arrives at her aid and attacks Buggy, cutting off his hand and leg. However, Buggy's dismembered hand stabs Zoro from behind, then reattaches itself to Buggy's arm. He reveals that he ate the Bara Bara no Mi, allowing him to split himself into pieces, control them, and reattach them. Despite this, Zoro runs to the cannon, readjusts it to aim at the Buggy Pirates, and allows Nami to reignite the fuse, firing the cannon.

Having warded off the Buggy Pirates, a wounded Zoro drags Luffy's cage to a local pet food shop. The mayor appears and takes Zoro into his house to nurse his wounds. Meanwhile, Luffy interacts with Chouchou, a dog defending the shop. The mayor explains that Chouchou's owner passed away from illness, so he continues to defend the deceased owner's store as a memento. Although Nami arrives with the key to Luffy's cage, Chouchou eats the key before the cage could be unlocked.
Buggy sends his first mate, Mohji the Beast Tamer, to search for and eliminate Zoro. Riding his lion Richie, he finds Luffy still trapped in the cage. Mohji orders Richie to attack Luffy, inadvertently destroying his cage and setting him free. He then strikes Luffy into a house, destroying it.
Richie raids the store for food and burns it to the ground as Chouchou fights in vain to defend the store. After seeing Mohji's actions, Luffy came to Chouchou's aid, defeating both Richie and Mohji before giving the dog a single box of pet food salvaged from the fire.
Mohji returns to Buggy to report his defeat. As an act of vengeance, Buggy fires a Buggy Ball into the town, destroying the mayor's house with Zoro still in it. Although Zoro was fortunately unharmed by the blast, the mayor decides to stand up to Buggy for his callous invasion of the town. Nami agrees to temporarily join forces with Luffy and Zoro and assist Boodle in confronting Buggy.

Luffy knocks Boodle unconscious to prevent him from injuring himself further in battle. Buggy fires a Buggy Ball at the group, but Luffy deflects the cannonball using his rubber body, firing the projectile back at the Buggy Pirates. Buggy's men are decimated by the attack, save for Buggy himself, who had used his subordinates as human shields, and his chief of staff and acrobat, Cabaji, who had used Richie as a shield. Cabaji offers to battle the group on Buggy's behalf, and Zoro decides to duel him one-on-one.
At the start of the battle, Cabaji uses dirty tricks to give himself an advantage, aiming for Zoro's stab wound. He also rides on his unicycle to attack Zoro from different angles. However, Zoro uses his Oni Giri technique, slicing Cabaji's chest and defeating him. Cabaji falls off his unicycle, and Zoro falls asleep on the ground, leaving Luffy and Buggy the only combatants left in combat.
During Zoro's battle with Cabaji, Nami breaks away from the group, instead trespassing into the pub. She takes down one of the patrolling guards and uses his key to open a treasure chest, revealing a map of the Grand Line inside.
Luffy and Buggy battle, with Buggy detaching his body parts to protect himself from Luffy's attacks. However, Buggy manages to damage Luffy's straw hat. Buggy then pierces the hat with three knives, further infuriating Luffy. After Luffy reveals the significance of the hat to Buggy, Buggy reveals that he holds a very strong grudge against Shanks, cursing his name.

Buggy reveals his relationship with Shanks, as they were both apprentices working for a pirate crew. While the pirates were looting a ship, Buggy found a valuable treasure map and kept it for himself. He later learns from Shanks that the pirates have also looted a Devil Fruit from the ship. Buggy planned to steal the fruit, escape the crew and sell both the fruit and the map.
Buggy ate a fake Devil Fruit in front of the pirates while he kept the real one for himself. However, just before he was able to leave with the fruit, he was caught by Shanks, causing him to accidentally eat the fruit. Buggy also lost the treasure map as the wind blew the map overboard. Buggy, who permanently lost the ability to swim, was unable to recover the map, foiling his plans of defecting from the pirates and starting his own crew. He would need to wait another ten years to accrue the wealth needed to start his own crew.
In the present day, Buggy spots Nami attempting to leave with his treasure. Using Bara Bara Festival, Buggy splits himself up into several pieces and attempts to seize his stolen treasure. However, Luffy comes to her aid, striking him down. Buggy attempts to reassemble himself, but Nami restrains many of his body parts with a rope, leaving Buggy much smaller. Luffy then strikes the weakened Buggy with Gomu Gomu no Bazooka, sending him flying into the air and out of the town.
Nami gives Luffy the map of the Grand Line while she keeps the rest of Buggy's treasures. She agrees to temporarily sail with the crew as an opportunity to acquire Bellies. Meanwhile, the citizens of Orange Town, who had evacuated to the outskirts due to Buggy's invasion, grow increasingly concerned for their mayor's safety and decide to return to the town. However, as the group were the only pirates left in the town, they are incorrectly blamed for the destruction of the town. Luffy flees from the angry citizens.
Chouchou, aware of the crew's true intentions, stops the mob, allowing them to head to the pier to escape. Back in the town, Boodle wakes up and finds that the Buggy Pirates have been successfully repelled from the town. He goes to the pier to thank the group as they depart. To Nami's horror, Luffy leaves her treasures behind so the citizens could fund repairs for the town.
On a distant island, a mysterious man stands and awaits visitors to his land.

The crew, who lack a ship adequate for the Grand Line, decide to stop by Syrup Village, a small island in the south, in search of a better ship.
In Syrup Village, the town prankster, Usopp, fools the townspeople into thinking pirates have come to attack the village. The townspeople chase him out of town. However, one of the children in Usopp's pretend pirate crew inform him that pirates have indeed arrived at the island. The Usopp Pirates go to the coast to confront the crew.
Usopp attempts to intimidate and repel them from the island, but all attempts fail as Luffy sees through each of his ploys. Luffy deduces that Usopp is the son of Yasopp, one of the people on Shanks' crew. After stopping at a local restaurant for food, they decide to go to the large mansion on top of the hill to ask its owners for financial support.
The lady of the mansion, Kaya, is being protected by her butler, Klahadore, following her parents' deaths. Despite Usopp being the only person to make her happy, Klahadore bars him from entering the mansion due to his reputation as a delinquent. Still, Usopp sneaks into the mansion and speaks with Kaya. The crew follow him and sneak into the mansion, but Klahadore confronts them for trespassing.
In the outskirts of the town, a peculiar man emerges, moonwalking down the road.

Klahadore confronts the crew, refusing their request for a ship. Redirecting his rage at Usopp, he insults Usopp for his pirate father, calling him a barbaric, lowly criminal. Usopp angrily attacks Klahadore. In response, Klahadore expels Usopp and the crew from the front yard, ordering them to never return.
Kaya remains in her bedroom and cries, and Klahadore enters to console her. He explains his past and the reasoning behind his protection of her. After being expelled from the ship he was working on, he was left derelict in Syrup Village. Kaya's father kindly accepted him into his mansion, and he dedicated himself to servitude for Kaya's family. After Kaya's parents passed away, Klahadore decided to become her guardian and protect her from harm, including Usopp, whom he considers to be a bad influence on her. Kaya forgives Klahadore for his harsh handling of the situation.
Zoro and Nami remain on the outskirts of town with the children. One of the children discovers the strange moonwalking man and alerts the others. The man introduces himself as a hypnotist. He demonstrates his skills by hypnotizing the children with a chakram on a string, causing the children to fall asleep. However, he accidentally hypnotizes himself, causing him to fall asleep as well.
Usopp and Luffy sit on a cliff, where they discuss Usopp's father, Yasopp. However, they find Klahadore, who is privately meeting with the hypnotist, Jango, at the base of the cliff. To their horror, they find that Klahadore was really Captain Kuro of the Black Cat Pirates. Kuro and Jango intended to assassinate Kaya to inherit her wealth, as Jango could hypnotize Kaya into changing her will. They reveal that Kuro escaped Marine pursuit by sending a lookalike of him to the Marines for execution. Jango reveals that the Black Cat Pirates' ship was stationed at the island, ready to invade the village.
Kuro and Jango spot Luffy and Usopp overhearing their conversation. Jango hypnotizes Luffy asleep, causing him to fall headfirst off the cliff. They decide not to pursue Usopp, knowing the townspeople would not believe him if he spoke out. Usopp flees toward the village.

Nami and Zoro head to the cliff to look for Luffy. They discover Luffy at the base of the cliff, and they head to the bottom of the cliff to wake him up unharmed. Luffy reveals to them Klahadore's malicious intents.
Usopp runs to the village to alert others about the incoming attack, but the townspeople refuse to believe him, contrasting him to Klahadore whom they trust more. The townspeople chase Usopp out of the town. Usopp then goes to Kaya's mansion to warn her about the danger, but she also does not believe him, believing it to be an unusually cruel joke.
Usopp attempts to escort Kaya out of the building, but is faced against the mansion guards. Although Usopp fights the guards, Kaya refuses to leave, hitting Usopp across the face. One of Kaya's butlers, Merry, shoots Usopp in the arm, and the townspeople continue to pursue him.
Meanwhile, Kuro meets with his crew at their ship stationed at the island. He orders them to destroy the entire village the next day.
The crew, Usopp and the children meet at the outskirts of the village. The children express their disappointment in Usopp for lying as they leave. The crew agree to fight alongside Usopp to defend Syrup Village from the Black Cat Pirates.

The crew prepare for the incoming attack. As the only entrance to the village is a single sloped path at the island's south end, they stand guard at the pathway to prevent the Black Cat Pirates from entering. They cover the slope with slippery oil to prevent them from walking up the path.
Kuro, still disguised as Klahadore, returns to Kaya's mansion, where Kaya is already asleep and Merry tending to his duties. Kuro finds a gift Kaya got for him, a pair of glasses custom-made for him so they would not slip off his nose. Kuro destroys the pair of glasses, revealing his true self to Merry. Revealing a set of long blades attached to his fingers like cat claws, he slices Merry down before heading to Kaya's bedroom to watch her sleep.
Morning arrives and as planned, the Black Cat Pirates led by Jango dock at the island. However, Usopp forgets that there is a second entrance to the village at the island's north end, through which the Black Cat Pirates decided to use instead. Nami, Luffy and Usopp rush to the north end, whereas Zoro is trapped by the south entrace's slippery slope. As Zoro continues to struggle to climb the slope, Luffy gets lost while attempting to reach the north coast.
Arriving at the north end and using his slingshot, Usopp strikes down many of the advancing Black Cat Pirates. Usopp attempts to bribe the pirates away using the treasures on the crew's ship, but Nami arrives and stops them. Undeterred, the Black Pirates continue their advances onto the island, and Nami and Usopp are unable to stop them. However, Luffy and Zoro arrive just in time to stop them.
Kuro notices his crew is late entering the village. He decides to personally head down to the north coast, vowing to kill his entire crew if his plan were to go wrong.

The children attempt to enter Kaya's mansion to check on her, but Usopp's secret entrance had been sealed and they cannot climb the gates. Inside the mansion, Kaya exits her bedroom to find a wounded Merry on the floor. Merry reveals that Usopp had been telling the truth and Klahadore was indeed a pirate attempting to assassinate Kaya for her family fortune.
As the invading Black Cat Pirates find themselves unable to fight off Luffy and Zoro, Jango hypnotizes them to increase their strength. The newly hypnotized combatants become far stronger, shattering cliffs with a single punch. However, Jango accidentally hypnotizes Luffy in the process, who, with his strength enhanced, defeats the Black Cat Pirates, then tears off the bow of the Black Cat Pirates ship. Jango hypnotizes Luffy asleep and Luffy collapses, but the bow also falls and crushes the enemy pirates.
As a last-ditch effort to penetrate the crew's defenses, Jango summons the Nyaban Brothers, Sham and Buchi, who had been watching over the ship. Although the Nyaban Brothers initially appear weak and cowardly, they use this as an act to catch Zoro off guard. Sham takes two of Zoro's katanas, leaving him to defend himself with a single sword. Usopp attempts to shoot them with a slingshot but misses, hitting Zoro instead and allowing the Nyaban Brothers to slash his chest. Nami attempts to retrieve Zoro's katanas but is stopped by Jango, who slices her in the shoulder with his chakram.
To the horror of the Black Cat Pirates, Kuro arrives at the coast, frustrated with the setbacks to the operation.

This episode starts with a recap of the previous episode and opens with Kuro arriving at the north slope, very angry that his plan did not go as planned. Jango and the rest of the Black Cat Pirates are terrified by him, including Sham and Buchi. He can't believe that his former crew was held back by a bunch of children. He asks Jango for an explanation. Jango reminds Kuro who said letting Usopp go would not cause any problems. Kuro said that he knew that Usopp would try in vain to stop the Black Cat Pirates from invading Syrup Village since no one would believe him, but the one thing he didn't count on was the weakness of his crew.
This remark made Sham and Buchi very mad. They remembered Kuro as a strong killer and said they were sinking ships and vanquishing pirate crews while Kuro lived the good life. They accused him of becoming weak. They go straight to him, hoping to kill him. Jango tries to warn them, but it was no use. Before they could deal him a blow, he suddenly disappeared. And reappeared moments later behind them with his Cat Claws gloves on his hands. It surprised even Zoro. They tried to attack him again, but he disappeared one more time. Jango recognized this move as the Nukiashi technique, Kuro's trademark attack. He reappeared behind Sham and Buchi again, with his claw-like knives pointing at them. Even Nami is impressed by this, as the Nyaban Brothers nearly defeated Zoro. This silent technique is so powerful, not even a group of 50 assassins could stop Kuro. Jango knew he hasn't lost that attack by the way he always lifted his glasses to avoid being cut by his Cat Claws gloves.
Nami managed to get up despite her wound. Kuro gave his crew 5 minutes to kill Zoro. Otherwise, he will kill them all. Sham and Buchi go straight to Zoro to kill him. Jango encourages them to stop him. Nami kicks the two swords straight to Zoro. The swordsman managed to get them. Although a little upset that Nami kicks his swords without any respect, Zoro thanks her for giving him back his swords and he defeats the Nyaban Brothers by using the Tora Gari technique. Kuro is still counting the minutes. Usopp and the Black Cat Pirates are surprised by the swordsman's attack. Even Jango is shocked by it.
Zoro said to Kuro that the former captain will be defeated in less than 5 minutes. Kuro is a little impressed. Buchi is still conscious and begs Jango to hypnotize him so he will become strong enough to defeat Zoro. Jango managed to do so and Zoro decided to deal with Buchi before he can fight Kuro. After being hypnotized, Buchi becomes stronger and more savage than before. His muscles even increased in size. That surprised Zoro, but he managed to regain his calm and decided to fight him no matter what happens. Meanwhile, Nami goes to wake up Luffy who is sleeping beneath the figurehead of the Bezan Black. She managed to wake him up by pressing her foot into his head. Luffy woke up just in time to stop Jango's pendulum from killing Nami with his bare teeth while arguing with Nami for the way she wakes people up. Nami learned that Jango's pendulum is also used as a weapon. Luffy broke the pendulum with his bare teeth, although it hurts him a little bit.
The Black Cat Pirates begin to think it will be impossible to defeat Luffy and Zoro since they appeared to be very strong. After waking up Luffy, Nami passes out for a bit. Luffy notices Nami's wound. Nami asks Luffy to fight for the village and her treasure, and Luffy accepts. The pirates run from Luffy, scared for their life. While Buchi fights Zoro, Jango will deal with Luffy. Kuro said that time is up and he will kill everyone on the north slope. He is also surprised that Luffy survived the fall from the cliff since he thought that fall would have killed him.
Before Kuro could kill anyone, Kaya arrives and begs him to stop. Usopp managed to save her before Kuro slashes her. She said to Usopp that she could not bare to see him get hurt protecting her. She then talks to Kuro and said he can take her fortune and leave the village alone. Kuro said to Kaya he wants more than her fortune. He wants peace. He said, despite her plea, the Black Cat Pirates will still attack Syrup Village and kill her. She then pulled a gun from her coat and pointed it at Kuro. She threatens to kill him if Kuro and the Black Cat Pirates don't leave the island this instant. Kuro managed to lower her guard down by talking about the last 3 years they spent together. He also said that spending 3 years with her was an insult to his pride as a pirate. He takes the gun from her and throws it to the ground.
Usopp takes the gun and tries to shoot Kuro down, but Kuro used his Nuki Ashi to reappear behind the liar with his Cat Claws gloves on. He tried to kill him to make him pay for punching him, but his attempts were stopped by Luffy who gave him a Gomu Gomu no Pistol, sending him to the ground. Luffy swears Kuro will have a bad day since he hates being punched.

As the Usopp Pirates come to his aid and beat Kuro as he is down, but Kuro gets up and beats Usopp to the ground. Now knowing his opponent possessed a Devil Fruit ability, he decides to personally focus on Luffy, ordering Jango to pursue and kill Kaya. Although now incapacitated and no longer able to fight, Usopp orders the children to protect Kaya as she evades Jango's pursuit. Although Zoro attempts to aid Luffy, he is stopped by a strengthened Buchi. Although Buchi greatly disrupts the battlefield with his powerful attacks, Zoro uses his three swords to cut him down.
Kuro mocks Usopp for his weakness and determination to become a brave warrior, and his crew joins in the mockery. However, Luffy attacks the crew members with a boulder. With Luffy's permission, Zoro leaves the battlefield to help protect Kaya from Jango.
Luffy continues his battle against Kuro, but Kuro evades each of Luffy's attacks using his Nukiashi technique. Although his crew members cheer on him as their captain, Kuro denounces the title, explaining his intentions to no longer be a pirate captain.
When he was at sea, Kuro grew tired of being a fugitive under constant Marine pursuit, so he decided to carry out a plan. When his ship was attacked by a Marine ship, Kuro entered the ship and slaughtered every Marine onboard, save for a single soldier. Jango hypnotized the soldier and one of Kuro's own men who resembled him. Under hypnosis, the crewman believed himself to be Kuro, and the soldier turned him into the Marines. Believing him to be Kuro himself, the Marines arrested and executed him. Kuro was now free to live a more peaceful life, now only needing money inherited from Kaya.
Back to the present day, Kuro resumes his battle with Luffy. Using the boulder from before, Luffy manages to break off all the blades on Kuro's right glove. Luffy declares that as Kuro desired to retire from piracy, his ambition was greater.

The children escort Kaya through the forest as they hide from Jango, and Zoro and Usopp attempt to locate the group. However, Kaya falls ill and is no longer able to run. The children attempt to ambush him with a fake surrender, their weapons and a falling log, but this attempt fails as Jango is unharmed by the attacks. After Jango threatens to kill the children, Kaya agrees to sign the will as planned, and in exchange the children would be spared. However, before Jango is able to kill Kaya, Zoro and Usopp finally locate her and arrive to her aid.
At the northern coast, Kuro reveals his intentions to slaughter his entire crew to prevent any of them from exposing him in the future. His standard Nukiashi techniques fail against Luffy's attacks, so he uses his Shakushi technique, an indiscriminate attack in which he slashes all objects and people in sight at such a great speed he is completely invisible to his opponents. Although Luffy was his only opponent, the attack harms his own crew members, leaving them gravely injured. Luffy is injured by the attacks as he struggles to effectively combat Kuro's ability.

Kuro attempts to use Shakushi on Luffy once again, but this time Luffy uses his rubber body to restrain him and prevent him from moving. Stretching his neck back, he uses Gomu Gomu no Kane, a powerful headbutt knocking Kuro unconscious and destroying his glasses. Concluding the battle, Luffy orders the remaining Black Cat Pirates to leave the island, taking Kuro with them.
Simultaneously, Zoro and Usopp arrive to protect Kaya from Jango. Zoro cuts down a tree branch, clearing the way for Usopp's Hissatsu: Kayaku Boshi, a fired pellet that explodes in Jango's face, defeating him. As he did not want to be known as the village hero, Usopp asks the children not to disclose his deeds to the townspeople.
After meeting with the crew to thank them for their help, Usopp meets with the children. Explaining his desires to leave the village to become a real pirate, Usopp disbands the crew, telling each child to pursue their individual ambitions.
To thank them for their heroic deeds, Kaya gifts the crew with the Going Merry, a full-sized caravel designed by Merry. Gratefully accepting the ship, the crew prepare to depart, also deciding to take Usopp along as a new permanent member of the crew.
Kaya meets with Merry at the coast, where Merry explains Usopp's past. In his childhood Usopp's father, Yasopp, set sail with Shanks to become a pirate, leaving behind his son and wife. Usopp's mother passed away from illness soon after Yasopp's departure. Now lonely, Usopp became the town liar, hoping that his lies would come true and his father would someday return.
In the present day, the children assume Usopp's role as the town liar, claiming an incoming pirate invasion.

While at sea, Luffy designs a jolly roger to represent the crew. After refining the design with his artistic skills, Usopp paints it to the sails. However, Nami spots the Island of Rare Animals in the distance, an island rumoured to contain legendary treasures but is divinely protected by the gods.
The crew decide to dock at the island to plunder its treasures. However, they are quickly confronted by strange hybrid animals and an unseen man claiming to be a god. After his makeshift traps fail against the crew, he attempts to retreat, but the crew catch him. They discover the man is Gaimon, a man who had been trapped in a box for twenty years. Luffy quickly befriends Gaimon, but is warned of the horrors that lie ahead in the Grand Line.
Gaimon explains his past. Formerly a boy aboard a pirate ship, he too arrived at the island in search of treasures, but his crew failed to find any treasure after a month of searching and prepared to leave. Gaimon finally found treasure atop a mountain, but fell off the mountain and into a box, where he became stuck. He also found out that his crew had already set sail, leaving him behind.
The crew decide to search for the treasure themselves. However, after Luffy climbs the mountain, he realizes that all five treasure boxes at the top of the mountain were empty. Luffy decides to invite Gaimon into his crew. Gaimon refuses, stating that he had befriending the animals native to the island. He also states that knowing there was no treasure gave him closure and the freedom to live as he pleased. After Gaimon thanks them for their help, the crew depart, heading towards their next destination.

After Luffy finds a box of cannonballs onboard, he and Usopp decide to play with the ship's cannons. As they do so, Zoro takes a nap, where he dreams about his childhood.
Zoro was a dojoyaburi at Shimotsuki Village, challenging local dojos to duels. However, after challenging the dojo of Koushirou, he faced defeat at the hands of Koushirou's daughter, Kuina, and as promised had to join the dojo as a student. After training much more rigorously than his peers, he became strong enough to defeat the adults at the dojo, but was still unable to defeat Kuina.
One day, Zoro challenged Kuina to a duel using real swords as opposed to shinai. Kuina defeated Zoro for the two-thousandth time. However, she lamented she would never become a powerful swordfighter as she was a woman. Zoro and Kuina promised to each other to train harder and become stronger, and one of them would become the world's greatest swordsman.
Both kept their promises and increased their training efforts, but Kuina tragically suffered a fatal fall down a flight of stairs. With Kuina deceased, Zoro decided he had to become the world's greatest swordsman to honor his promise. Koushirou entrusted Zoro with Kuina's prized heirloom katana, the Wado Ichimonji, for him to further his training. Zoro would train for another eight years before leaving the dojo to become a pirate hunter.
Back in the present day, Luffy fires the cannon at a distant rock. They then go to the kitchen, but they find themselves raided by Johnny, Zoro's old friend. Johnny accuses the crew of attempting to kill his friend.

Johnny explains that after his bounty hunting partner, Yosaku, had fallen ill from an unknown disease, they had stopped at a rock so Yosaku could rest. However, the rock was targeted by Luffy's cannon, which he assumed to be a deliberate attack.
The crew take an ill Yosaku onboard and Nami diagnoses him with scurvy, a disease caused by a vitamin C deficiency. After treating his illness by feeding him lime juice, they bring him inside to rest. The crew decide they need a crew member specializing in cooking to tend to their dietary needs. They decide to stop at the Baratie, a ship and ocean-going restaurant.
However, they arrive at the same time as Marine lieutenant Fullbody, who enters the restaurant for a date but orders his men to destroy the crew's ship. Luffy deflects their cannonball with his rubber body, but this causes the cannonball to strike the Baratie's rooftop, blasting a large hole in the roof and injuring the head chef, Zeff. As Luffy had no money to pay for repairs, Zeff forces him to work as a chore boy for an entire year to make up for the incident, and he refuses to negotiate with Luffy.
Meanwhile, Fullbody gets into an argument with the restaurant's sous chef, Sanji, after the former attempts to place a fly in his soup. After the argument escalates, Fullbody destroys the table, spilling the soup on the ground. For wasting the food he made, Sanji beats Fullbody with his legs, prompting the other members of the crew to enter the restaurant to investigate the loud sounds.

Baratie's patissier, Patty, denounces Sanji for his violent actions against Fullbody. Zeff also beats Luffy through the floor above, causing them to fall into the dining area below. While Zeff, Patty and Sanji continue to argue, Fullbody attempts to flee, but is informed by his crew that Don Krieg, the most feared pirate in East Blue, has escaped their custody despite being starved for days.
One of Krieg's officers, Gin, appears at the restaurant, requesting food. Patty refuses to feed him as Gin cannot pay for the food, beating him to the ground and throwing him outside. Sanji decides to generously feed Gin with a dish of seafood risotto, which he gratefully accepts. Watching from above, Luffy invites Sanji into his crew, but Sanji refuses the invitation, stating he had reasons to stay at the Baratie. Gin warns Luffy of the dangers that lie in the Grand Line.
Gin leaves on his ship to return to his captain. Luffy and Sanji return to work, where the former works as a chore boy, but his clumsiness destroys the kitchen. Patty orders him to become a waiter instead, sending him into the dining area to take orders. While Luffy tends to the crew's table, Sanji serenades Nami, which disgusts Zeff.
Meanwhile, Gin returns to Krieg at their headquarters. Despite Sanji's generosity towards Gin, they decide to plan an invasion of Baratie.

Sanji attempts to charm Nami, treating her with a fruit macedonia, which gets him into an argument with Zeff. However, fog arrives, and the customers notice the arrival of Krieg's fleet. Fearing Krieg's reputation, the patrons immediately flee the restaurant.
Krieg enters the Baratie with Gin, begging for food and promising not to attack the ship if fed. Against the wishes of Patty and all the other staff, Sanji agrees to feed him, giving Krieg a bowl of rice. Krieg hungrily eats the food, but staying true to his reputation, once he finishes his food, he betrays the Baratie, launching an invasion. Having a damaged ship and a hundred starving subordinates, he demands the staff to feed all of his crew members, then vacate the Baratie so he could take the ship for himself.
Sanji attempts to comply with Krieg's demands, but the other staff restrain him, refusing to give up the ship. Patty shoots him with Shokuatari Meatball, but his golden armour leaves him completely unharmed by the explosive. In response, gun barrels emerge from the armour, and he opens fire at the kitchen staff. At this point, Zeff decides to submit to Krieg, giving him food for his crew members.

Zeff criticizes Krieg for his failed entry into the Grand Line. Krieg recognizes Zeff as a former pirate known for fighting only with his legs, but notes that he had since retired from piracy after losing one of his legs. Believing he only lacked the knowledge needed to traverse the Grand Line, Krieg demands Zeff's old logbook to help him return to the sea. He returns to his ship to give the food to his crew, warning the staff to vacate before he returned.
Gin apologizes on Krieg's behalf, unaware of his plans to betray the Baratie. He explains that the Krieg Pirates' entire armada was defeated by a single man, whom they believe to be the world-famous warrior known as Hawk-Eyes. Of the fifty ships with five thousand crew members, only the flagship containing one hundred warriors survived the attack, partially thanks to a storm which carried it back to East Blue.
Krieg gives the food to his people, where he explains his intentions to scrap the flagship, seize the Baratie, and return to the Grand Line. He shoots a crew member just for protesting this decision. However, before they are able to initiate their attack, the ship is sliced in half with a single slice, revealing that Hawk-Eyes had followed the Krieg Pirates to the Baratie. The ship sinks and its crew members fall into the sea. They also find Johnny and Yosaku floating in the sea, who reveal that Nami has defected from the crew, taking the ship with her.

Yosaku explains how he and Johnny lost the Going Merry. While their backs were turned to her, Nami pushed them both overboard. Stating she needed to take care of "business," she drove the ship away, leaving the crew behind. Almost immediately after Johnny and Yosaku fell into the sea, they witnessed the Krieg Pirates' flagship be destroyed.
Zoro recognizes the assailant as Dracule "Hawk-Eyes" Mihawk, rumoured to be the world's greatest swordsman. Mihawk states that he attacked the Krieg Pirates simply for his own amusement. Zoro immediately challenges him to a duel, to which he accepts. However, seeing Zoro as comparatively weaker than him, he uses a kogatana. They begin battle.
Despite wielding three katana, Zoro is unable to land a single attack on Mihawk, who blocks each of his attacks with his kogatana. Eventually, he manages to wound Zoro, piercing him in the chest. Seeing Zoro's strong will, Mihawk agrees to use his Meito, Yoru, against Zoro. With this weapon, Mihawk destroys two of Zoro's katana, leaving only Zoro's Wado Ichimonji unharmed and further wounding him. In defeat, Zoro allows Mihawk to slash him across the chest, knocking him unconscious.
Mihawk deliberately let Zoro live, telling him to become stronger so Zoro may eventually surpass him. Zoro agrees, vowing to never lose another battle before defeating Mihawk. Satisfied with the duel, Mihawk decides not to pursue Krieg, leaving. With all interruptions gone, Krieg is now able to attack the Baratie. Luffy orders Usopp and Zoro to pursue Nami while he faces Krieg on his own. Zeff agrees to nullify Luffy's debts if he repels the invasion.

Krieg briefly speaks with his crew about his intentions, stating that if he could seize the Baratie, its inconspicuous appearance could be used for deception. Zeff's logbook could also provide useful strategies for traversing the Grand Line, as well as information surrounding the legendary treasure, One Piece. This motivates his men to start battle.
To prevent damaging the restaurant's interior from battle, Sanji orders a staff member to raise the "fins," two platforms on either side of the restaurant which could function as the battlefield. The Krieg Pirates enter the Baratie's port-side fin. As the chefs battle, patissier Patty and charcutier Carne operate the Sabagashira I, a fish-shaped paddleboat, and charge at Krieg. Krieg's armour blocks the Sabagashira's artillery, and he then throws the boat back at the Baratie. The boat crashes into the fin.
The chefs charge at the Krieg Pirates, but are defeated. Remembering how they were accepted into Baratie, Patty and Carne increase their efforts and defeat many enemy forces, but are taken down by one of Krieg's officers, "Iron Wall" Pearl, a man covered in metal shields.
Pearl flaunts his record, as he has won all of his battles without shedding a single drop of blood. However, just as he speaks, Krieg strikes the mast Luffy is holding onto. Luffy falls and hits Pearl from behind, causing Pearl to hit his head against one of his shields, giving him a nosebleed. His record tarnished, Pearl enters an enraged state, where he sets himself on fire, which spreads to the entire fin.
Despite this, Sanji manages to strike Pearl several times with his combat abilities, utilizing only his legs. Pearl is knocked back, and he is crushed by a falling mast, knocking him out. Despite the initial victory, Gin catches Zeff off-guard, holding him at gunpoint.

Gin holds Zeff at gunpoint, threatening to shoot. Pearl recovers from Sanji's attacks and prepares a counterattack, stating that Gin would shoot if Sanji were to dodge his attacks. With this, Sanji has no choice but to take his attacks, as he is struck in the head by his shields. While he is down, Sanji reflects on his childhood with Zeff.
As a child, Sanji was working as a cook aboard a cruise ship, which was then attacked by Zeff's crew, the Cook Pirates. The Cook Pirates plundered the ship and beat Sanji, where Sanji states his dream of locating the legendary All Blue. However, the ships were suddenly caught in a storm, and a particularly strong wave swept Sanji overboard. Zeff chose to risk his life, diving into the sea to save Sanji from drowning. Another strong wave then sunk both ships, presumably killing all people onboard.
Zeff attempted to save Sanji, but his leg became caught by the ships' wreckage. Zeff had to cut of his own leg with a chain to set himself free. He then rescued Sanji and carried him to a deserted, rocky island. On the island, they divided their rations amongst themselves and went to opposite ends of the island to spot incoming ships.
Although Sanji rationed his share of the food to last twenty days, it eventually ran out and he was left starving for several more days. He confronted Zeff, who held a comparatively larger share, and cut open his bag. He finds, to his horror, that Zeff's "share" was treasure, and he had given Sanji all of the food. Sanji then discovers that he had also severed his right leg to save his life. Zeff explains his reasoning, stating that he also shared Sanji's dream of locating the All Blue, so he sacrificed his leg so Sanji could pursue the dream. Sanji and Zeff were eventually rescued by a ship, and they would found the Baratie restaurant together.
In the present day, Sanji stands up to Pearl, prepared to fight for the Baratie. Enraged by the Krieg Pirates' actions, Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Ono, destroying the entire port-side fin.

After Luffy destroys the Baratie's fin, Krieg orders Gin to kill Sanji. Gin hesitates, as Sanji was the staff member who fed his crew. Pearl attempts to kill Sanji himself, but is attacked by Gin, who destroys his front shield and knocks him out. Gin decides to personally battle Sanji as a thanks for his generosity, while Krieg focuses on Luffy.
Gin, dubbed the "Man-Demon" for his extreme cruelty, uses his Man-Demon tactics against Sanji, armed with two weighted tonfa. Despite Sanji initially striking Gin to the ground, he quickly recovers, cruelly beating Sanji and gravely injuring him. However, after pinning Sanji to the ground, he is unable to finish him off out of remorse and guilt. Because of Sanji's hospitality, he begs Krieg to stop the attack, but Krieg denies this request, denouncing Gin for his insubordination.
Krieg decides to unleash MH5, a lethal poison gas bomb. Krieg's men wear gas masks to protect themselves, the chefs dive underwater, and Zeff retreats to the restaurant's interior. Luffy takes masks off two Krieg Pirates and gives them to Sanji and Gin to protect them. However, he is unable to find a mask for himself before the bomb is launched.

Luffy is left without a means to protect himself from Krieg's MH5 gas. However, Gin decides to give his own mask to Luffy, saving Luffy's life but inhaling the poison himself. He immediately suffers the effects of the poison, causing internal bleeding.
While the restaurant staff rush to care for Gin's condition, Luffy battles Krieg. He penetrates Krieg's defenses and punches through Krieg's Kenzan Mantle, a spiked cape, hitting Krieg in the face.
As his ultimate weapon, Krieg uses his armour's pauldrons to form the Daisenso, a spear which creates an explosion upon every impact. To combat this, Luffy punches the Daisenso's spearhead five times in a row, getting caught in the explosion every time, but eventually destroying the spear's head. Zeff admires Luffy for his determination and lack of hesitation.

Having damaged the Daisenso, Luffy continues his attack against Krieg. At one point, Krieg climbs a mast, where Luffy strikes him with a Gomu Gomu no Bazooka, cracking Krieg's armour. Although Krieg attempts to deter him with explosives, Luffy strikes Krieg with a second Gomu Gomu no Bazooka, shattering the armour.
Krieg captures Luffy with a net, intending for the both of them to fall into the sea and Luffy to drown. Luffy manages to counter this by freeing his limbs, grabbing Krieg's face with his feet, and slamming him into the Baratie's fin with Gomu Gomu no Ozuchi, knocking him unconscious and defeating him. Luffy falls into the sea, but Sanji rescues him and brings him to safety.
However, Krieg gets up, now hysterical from his own defeat, attacking his own men in a panic. Gin strikes him back down, knocking him unconscious again and preventing him from causing further harm. Escorting Krieg away, he orders a full retreat on behalf of the Krieg Pirates, promising to rebuild his crew and eventually meet Luffy's crew on the Grand Line. Sanji gives the Baratie's supply ship for the defeated pirates to retreat.
On the Going Merry, Nami laments having to steal the ship, but cries, stating her desires to be free and mentioning Bell-mere.

After expelling the Krieg Pirates, Luffy asks Sanji to join the crew, to which he refuses. Still, Sanji mentions his dream of locating the All Blue, a mythical ocean where all four seas meet. Zeff overhears this conversation between Sanji and Luffy.
The restaurant staff taste Sanji's soup, and Patty, Carne, and Zeff all pretend to dislike the soup to prompt Sanji to set sail with Luffy, and Sanji leaves the dining area in anger. Zeff reveals his true intentions to Luffy, and Sanji overhears this from outside the restaurant. He finally agrees to join the crew as their cook.
A shark arrives at the Baratie with Yosaku in its mouth. He reports he was unable to follow Nami, but was able to estimate her rough destination, warning of its danger. So, the crew prepare for departure, with Luffy packing food from the kitchen and Sanji preparing to move out. Sanji walks out the Baratie in front of the kitchen staff, prostrating in front of Zeff and thanking him for his sacrifices.
Meanwhile, the Going Merry nears its destination, an island ruled by a fearsome pirate crew.

While at sea, Yosaku reveals Nami's destination: Arlong Park, the base of the most notorious pirate in the East Blue, Arlong. Yosaku suspects Nami is after Arlong's bounty and warns of the dangers that lie ahead since Arlong is a fish-man originating from the Grand Line, so his strength surpasses even that of Krieg. Arlong had previously worked with Jinbe of the Seven Warlords of the Sea, seven government-sanctioned pirates such as Mihawk. Yosaku, Luffy and Sanji go to the galley for lunch.
Nami arrives at Arlong Park, where Arlong makes a bribery with a corrupt Marine officer. She reaches the base and beats a child attempting to eliminate Arlong.
Arriving at the island, Zoro prepares to invade the base, but Usopp and Johnny stop him, tying him with rope and sailing around the island. However, the ship is spotted by resident fish-men. Usopp and Johnny abandon ship, but Zoro is unable to escape the ship, and he is captured by Arlong Pirates. Zoro is interrogated by Arlong, where Arlong claims that fish-men are far superior to humans, as they possess greater strength and can breathe underwater. Nami confronts Zoro, revealing she is an officer and cartographer serving under Arlong.
Johnny and Usopp arrive onshore at Gosa Village, only to find the entire village had been destroyed, and all houses had been flipped upside-down. A resident fish-man explains that the village was destroyed by the Arlong Pirates' sea monster, Momoo, for protesting against Arlong's reign. Revealing himself to be an Arlong Pirate, he attempts to capture Usopp, but is rescued by a human resident, Nojiko, who diverts the pirate away. They then visit Nojiko's house.

Luffy, Sanji, and Yosaku eat outside on the deck, but the food attracts Momoo, the Arlong Pirates' Sea Beast who resembles a cow. Momoo attacks the ship for the food, but Luffy and Sanji fight back, knocking him back into the sea. Luffy forces Momoo to carry the ship to Arlong Park.
Usopp is brought to Nojiko's house, where Chabo reveals his father was killed by Arlong when Gosa Village was destroyed. Usopp is informed of Nami's allegiance to Arlong. Nojiko reveals she is also Nami's adopted sister. Usopp laments Nami's betrayal, despite believing she genuinely enjoying her experience with the crew.
Meanwhile, Zoro is confronted by Arlong and Nami, where he notices Nami's strange reaction to the mentioning her mother's death. He attempts to escape by jumping into the gate pool, but is unable to swim due to him being bound with rope. Nami dives into the pool and rescues him, but orders the pirates to incarcerate him. At that point, a fish-man reports spotting Usopp near Cocoyasi Village, prompting Arlong to travel to the town. While he is gone, Zoro defeats all pirates stationed at the base.
In Cocoyasi Village, Usopp and Nojiko hide from Arlong, who confront a man, Genzo, for possession of a weapon. Nojiko reveals that Arlong sees humans as inferiors for him to use as he pleases, forcing all citizens under his reign to pay him a monthly tribute to him in exchange for their lives. He destroyed Gosa Village because of the failure of one person to pay the tribute. Arlong reveals his intentions to use the funds to dominate all of East Blue.
Deeming the mere possession of a weapon as a form of rebellion, Arlong decides to execute Genzo. However, Usopp interferes, shooting him with his slingshot standing on a house. Enraged, Arlong lifts the house off its foundation, slamming it into the neighbouring house. Fearing the loss of another stream of income, Arlong's crew restrain him to prevent him from destroying Cocoyasi Village.
Genzo's wounds are treated, and Nami visits a marked grave atop a cliff. She states her intentions to raise one hundred million bellies to buy her village back from Arlong.

As Luffy, Sanji and Yosaku sail towards Arlong Park with Momoo's help, Zoro, having cleared the base from all other enemies, meet one of Arlong's officers, Hatchan. Believing him to simply be a guest visiting the base, Hatchan offers to give Zoro a ride to Cocoyasi Village. Zoro departs just before Arlong returns to the base and discovers the damage done to the base. He is informed that the prisoner they have just captured was none other than Pirate Hunter Roronoa Zoro.
Meanwhile, Usopp evades pursuit by angered Arlong Pirates. Although successfully escapes Arlong's lesser combatants, he falls off a cliff, attracting the attention of Chew, one of Arlong's officers. He is captured and brought to Arlong Park for interrogation. Another officer, Kuroobi, suspects that Nami lured Zoro to the base, then helped him escape custody.
Nami arrives to levy the allegations made against her, but Kuroobi adds to the accusations, reporting finding a treasure map in Nami's home, suggesting she was keeping treasure in Cocoyasi Village. In order to prove her allegiance to the Arlong Pirates, she stabs Usopp in the stomach, causing him to fall into the pool. Arlong's officers now trust Nami, letting her go.
Nami goes to her office, but notices that Luffy's ship had arrived at Arlong Park. The ship is sent flying into the sky, meets Zoro in the forest, and crashes into a paddy. At that moment, Johnny, having witnessed Nami stab Usopp, reports Usopp's killing.

Nami confronts the crew at the paddy field, clarifying her allegiance to the Arlong Pirates and asking them to leave the island before they are captured. However, determined to take Nami as his Navigator, Luffy vehemently refuses to leave the island, lying on the road to sleep. No longer wanting to face danger on the island, Johnny and Yosaku decide to part ways with the crew, bidding farewell to Zoro.
Usopp, revealed to be alive, reunites with the crew, revealing that Nami stabbed the back of her own hand, leaving him unharmed and allowing him to escape alive.
Meanwhile, the Marine 77th Branch, led by Commodore Pudding Pudding, near the island to rescue survivors from Gosa Village and capture Arlong. Arlong decides to send only three of his officers to repel the attack. While Chew intimidates the Marine forces onboard, Kuroobi tears off the ship's rudder and Hatchan creates an artificial maelstrom, sinking the ship and presumably killing all invading forces. Then, Arlong, to prevent Nami from purchasing Cocoyasi Village, summons Marine 16th Branch, led by Captain Nezumi, to her house.
Nojiko meets with Nami at her house, where Nami reveals she built truly positive experiences with the crew while they were together. Nojiko then goes to the crew, explaining to them Nami's past. Nami and Nojiko were raised in Cocoyasi Village by a woman named Bell-mere.

Chew, Kuroobi and Hatchan investigate reports of a flying ship, finding the ship's wreckage in the paddy field. They confront Luffy, watching him taking a walk in the area.
Meanwhile, Nojiko tells the other members of the crew about Nami's past. Both were raised in the outskirts of Cocoyasi Village by their adoptive mother, Bell-mere, who farmed mikan to survive. Being a low-income family, Nami often stole books from a local bookstore to support her passion in cartography, Bell-mere fed Nojiko and Nami while eating only mikans herself, and Nami received only hand-me-down clothing from Nojiko. Angry by the lack of money her family had, she ran away from her home and sought shelter at Genzo's office.
Genzo explained to Nami how she was adopted. He explained that Bell-mere travelled overseas as a Marine, where she met Nojiko and infant Nami. She decided to take the two back to Cocoyasi Village, adopt them, and raise them as her own children. At that moment, Nojiko arrived, reunited with Nami, and the two travelled back to Bell-mere's house for dinner.
However, Cocoyasi Village then faced an invasion from the Arlong Pirates. Arlong declared the entire island, including the village, his own domain, and all citizens would have to pay a monthly tribute to him in exchange for their lives. They eventually discovered smoke coming from the outskirts, leading them to Bell-mere's house. Nojiko and Nami feared Bell-mere would be unable to pay the tribute, rushing to their home to warn her.

The Arlong Pirates confronted Bell-mere at her house for her monthly tribute. Bell-mere was unable to defend herself against Arlong, and also could not pay for both herself and her children, only possessing 100,000 bellies. Townspeople attempted to hide Nojiko and Nami as her daughters so Bell-mere would be able to pay for herself. However, Bell-mere refused, refusing to deny the existence of her family, and paid the tribute for her daughters, not for herself. After bidding farewell to Nojiko and Nami, she was shot dead by Arlong.
Impressed with the map drawn by Nami, Arlong accepted her into the crew, where she was given plenty of money. Nami intended to raise one hundred million bellies so she could buy her village back from Arlong. Nami would become a pirate thief under Arlong, stealing from pirates and burying her savings underground.
However, in the present day, Nami is confronted by Nezumi. As her treasures were stolen goods, Nezumi seized her treasures, confiscating it as government property.

Despite her pleas, Nezumi seizes all of Nami's savings, finding the treasure buried in the orchard and keeping a portion of it for himself. Nami realizes that Arlong sent Nezumi to seize her wealth so he would not have to forfeit the village. After Nami attempts to fight back, Nezumi shoots Nojiko in the back.
While Nojiko's wounds are treated by a village doctor, Nami confronts Arlong. Arlong argues that he did not break any terms of his promise by sending Nezumi after Nami's treasure. Betrayed, Nami returns to the village, where the townspeople led by Genzo have decided to battle against the Arlong Pirates against her wishes. Knowing their strength is insufficient to defeat Arlong, Nami attempts to dissuade them, but the townspeople insist, marching to Arlong Park.
Furious with Arlong's actions, Nami repeatedly stabs the Arlong Pirates tattoo on her shoulder, finally requesting Luffy's help in defeating Arlong. Luffy agrees, sending the crew to Arlong Park. Johnny and Yosaku stop the villagers from marching into the base so that the crew may battle for them.

The crew break into Arlong Park and Luffy punches Arlong in the face. Hatchan recognizes Zoro as the fugitive swordsman, and seeing that Usopp is alive, the Arlong Pirates realize Nami betrayed them. Hatchan summons Momoo to eliminate the crew, but Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Kazaguruma, knocking out Momoo and defeating all Arlong Pirates except for Arlong and his officers.
However, Luffy is rendered immobile as he planted his feet into the concrete floor during the attack. Arlong's three officers step forward, and Hatchan attempts to cover Luffy with his squid ink, then crush him with debris. Even though this attack fails to harm Luffy, his feet are still stuck in the ground.
Sanji decides to battle Kuroobi, Zoro chooses Hatchan as his opponent, and Usopp accidentally angers Chew, who chases him. Chew notices the townspeople attempting to rebel, but is unable to suppress the rebellion, as Usopp formally chooses him as his opponent. Chew chases Usopp out of the base.
As Luffy is still immobile, Arlong decides to start a "game," where he picks up Luffy along with a piece of the ground still attached to his legs. He throws Luffy into the pool to drown. Zoro and Sanji are unable to rescue him before defeating their respective opponents, as Kuroobi and Hatchan would have a physical advantage underwater.

Zoro battles against Hatchan. Despite Hatchan being unarmed, Zoro struggles against him as he is still injured from his duel against Mihawk and also only has one sword intact. This distracts Sanji, allowing Kuroobi to strike him.
As Zoro and Sanji would be unable to rescue Luffy in time, Genzo and Nojiko attempt to save him themselves. They sneak into the base, dive into the pool and attempt to rescue him, but Genzo is unable to break the cement attached to Luffy's feet. Nojiko brings only his head above the surface so he may breathe and Genzo remains underwater to resuscitate him.
Hatchan climbs into his base to get his weapons, six swords for his six tentacles. Zoro borrows from Johnny and Yosaku's swords to use Three Sword Style against Hatchan. Hatchan resorts to targetting Zoro's wounds, striking him in the abdomen. Despite potentially reopening his wounds, Zoro defeats Hatchan with Tatsu Maki, destroying all six of Hatchan's swords and propelling him into the air.
Despite defeating his opponent, Zoro is too injured to dive into the water to rescue Luffy. Sanji is forced to dive into the water to rescue Luffy, knowing Kuroobi would have an advantage over him underwater. Kuroobi strikes Sanji from behind.
Meanwhile, Chew chases Usopp through the island outskirts. Nami, who finishes bandaging her wounds at her house, decides to return to Arlong Park and join the battle.

Having an advantage underwater, Kuroobi battles Sanji in the pool. Restraining him with his hair, he beats Sanji with his Fish-Man Karate, preventing him from resurfacing. He then grabs Sanji and dives underwater, causing the water pressure change to crush his body. Sanji then blows air into Kuroobi's gills, harming him and returning to the surface.
On land, Sanji gains an advantage over Kuroobi. Despite Kuroobi threatening to use his signature move, Sanji uses a series of rapid attacks against him before Mouton Shot, defeating him and sending him crashing through the building.
Meanwhile, Usopp pretends to be dead to avoid Chew, but decides not to evade him and confront him. He hides in the forest and Chew uses water from the paddy fields to spit at the forest as bullet-like projectiles. Despite this, having covered Chew with flammable wine, Usopp sets him on fire with an incendiary projectile, then strikes him with his hammer. Usopp repeatedly beats Chew with his hammer until he is knocked unconscious.
At the base, Nojiko and Genzo switch places, with Nojiko now being underwater. Arlong attacks Zoro and Sanji by throwing water at them like projectiles, but Nami arrives to their aid, declaring battle against Arlong.

Arlong offers not to kill the citizens of Cocoyasi Village if Nami surrenders, only killing the crew. Nami decides to refuse this offer, joining the battle even at the expense of the townspeople.
Meanwhile, Nojiko successfully revives Luffy, but most of his body remains trapped underwater. While Sanji dives underwater to break the cement trapping Luffy, Zoro battles Arlong, attempting to break his saw nose he claims is indestructible. Usopp also appears, announcing his victory against Chew. Arlong defeats Zoro by piercing him with his nose, then removes his bandages and notices the wounds he sustained from Mihawk.
Underwater, Sanji prepares to free Luffy from the cement, but Hatchan, having regained consciousness, pursues him. However, by straining himself, Hatchan reopens the wounds he sustained from Zoro, collapsing again from blood loss. Sanji destroys the cement attached to Luffy's feet, freeing him. Launching himself out of the pool and into the air, he uses a series of attacks against Arlong. Luffy mocks Arlong's fish-like features, angering him further.

Arlong attacks Luffy, biting through a stone column with his teeth and crushing his swords. Stating his dependence for his crew members for support, Luffy punches Arlong in the face, destroying his teeth, but Arlong reveals he is able to regrow his teeth, with each new set of teeth being stronger than the last. He is then uses his removed sets of teeth as handheld weapons. Luffy then takes one of Arlong's sets of teeth and also uses it as his own weapon, placing it in his mouth.
As a second technique, Arlong uses Shark on Darts, where he dives underwater, then charges at Luffy intending to pierce him with his nose. Although he uses this attack against Luffy multiple times, Luffy is able to stop him in his trajectory using his rubber-like hands.
Having been sufficiently angered, Arlong, possessing an ability similar to Sea Kings, enters an enraged, stronger state. In this state, he retrieves his weapon, the Kiribachi, a saw-like zanbato with tooth-like blades. He slams Luffy through the base's wall and into the building. Discovering the cartography room where Nami drew her maps, Luffy declares Nami his own navigator.

Luffy notices Nami's old pen covered in her blood, revealing the abuse she endured as Arlong's cartographer. After Arlong boasts about using her for his own personal gain, Luffy breaks the Kiribachi's blades with his hands, then destroys the sea maps and furniture in the room. The spectators outside the base notice the furniture being thrown out of the building, which is also seen by Nami, who thanks Luffy for doing so.
Arlong angrily bites Luffy's shoulder, but Luffy manages to break Arlong's nose. In one final attempt, Arlong attempts his Shark on Tooth technique against Luffy, but Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Ono to stomp down on Arlong's back, sending him crashing down through several floors before landing on the bottom floor, unconscious. The structural damage caused by Luffy's attack causes the building to collapse. Luffy emerges from the rubble and declares Nami to be his crew member, to which she accepts.
The spectators attempt to celebrate their liberation from Arlong, but are stopped by Nezumi's forces, who attempts to seize Arlong's wealth for himself. The crew angrily attack the Marines, ordering them to arrest Arlong and return his wealth to the townspeople. Nezumi vows retribution before fleeing.
Back at Cocoyasi Village, Genzo, on behalf of the townspeople, apologizes to Nami for ostracizing her. Meanwhile, Nezumi returns to his headquarters, where he reports Luffy to the Marines and requests that a high bounty be issued in his name.

News of Arlong's defeat spread to all villages in the island, and the townspeople celebrate their liberation. As Luffy eats and Zoro receives proper treatment for his wounds from Nako, Nami visits Bell-mere's grave with Nojiko and Genzo, where she reveals her intentions of leaving her village to join Luffy's crew.
Nightfall arrives and as the party continues, Nami consults Nako to have her Arlong Pirates tattoo removed. She replaces the tattoo with one depicting a mikan branch and a pinwheel before returning to her house to pack. She then departs, leaving behind the hundred million bellies she stole.
Meeting the crew on the dock, Nami ignores the citizens attempting to thank her as she jumps onto the Going Merry. It is revealed she pickpocketed the townspeople as she ran past them. The citizens still thank her as she leaves. Meanwhile, it is revealed Genzo, feeling he no longer needed his pinwheel, left it on Bell-mere's grave.

While the crew are at sea, a News Coo arrives to deliver a newspaper. They discover a wanted poster for Luffy, indicating he had received a bounty. It is revealed that as Luffy defeated many of the most feared pirates in East Blue, the Marines saw him as a considerable threat and placed a bounty of thirty million bellies on his head, the largest in East Blue.
The news reaches both Luffy's allies and old enemies, including Fullbody, who had been demoted to a lower rank after getting into a fight at the Baratie. Fullbody saw Luffy's bounty as an opportunity to capture him and be promoted back to his past rank. Spotting the Going Merry pass by his ship, he orders his soldiers to attack the ship. However, this attack is repelled, and Fullbody retreats upon seeing Sanji. Meanwhile, Mihawk delivers the news to the Red Hair Pirates, who celebrate Luffy's accomplishment.
Meanwhile, the crew determine their next destination. The only entrance to the Grand Line is Reverse Mountain, but they decide to first stop by Loguetown, dubbed "the town of the beginning and the end" due to it being both Gold Roger's birthplace and place of execution. As they sail towards Loguetown, Buggy and Alvida decide to pursue him.

As the crew sail towards Loguetown, Nami wonders about Buggy's whereabouts. After being launched into the air by Luffy, he is sent to an uninhabited island with many of his body parts still missing. He escapes on a raft to a second island, where he is captured by an aggressive bird. The bird attempts to eat Buggy, but spits him out into the sky.
Buggy is sent to a third island, this time the Island of Rare Animals, where he is confronted by Gaimon. After discovering Buggy is not a poacher targetting the animals, Gaimon befriends him, drinking by a campfire. The next day, Buggy attempts to leave to another island, but his raft is destroyed by a Sea Beast. He is rescued by Alvida, who had since grown much thinner since her battle with Luffy. Sailing on Alvida's ship, they decide to form an alliance as they were both pursuing the same target, Luffy.
Back in the present day, nightfall arrives and the crew go to sleep.

Alvida and Buggy sail towards their next destination, focusing on relocating Buggy's crew. The Buggy Pirates, having been repelled from Orange Town by the townspeople, fled from the island taking Buggy's body parts with them. Assuming Buggy to be deceased, they host a funeral for him on a separate island, where Mohji and Cabaji get into a dispute over who would replace Buggy as the crew's captain.
Mohji and Cabaji engage in a duel for the captain position, which lasts several hours and into nightfall. They are both simultaneously defeated by a sleepwalking Richie, who is then crowned the new captain of the Buggy Pirates. However, they are confronted by the cannibalistic Kumate Tribe, who overwhelm and capture the Buggy Pirates.
The Kumate Tribe attempts to boil the Buggy Pirates alive for consumption, but Buggy and Alvida locate their flagship docked at the island and arrive to their aid. Buggy, Alvida, Mohji and Cabaji defeat the Kumate Tribe with their individual combat abilities and rescue the pirates. With Buggy reassembled and his crew being reunited, the Buggy and Alvida Alliance set sail to pursue Luffy. Meanwhile, the crew near Loguetown.

Upon arriving at Loguetown, the crew separate to tour the town and shop for goods. However, the Marine captain stationed in Loguetown, Smoker, is informed of Luffy's activity in East Blue. Smoker leaves his post to search the town for Luffy, instead battling and defeating another pirate, Gally. Smoker then helps Luffy locate the historic execution platform, unaware he is the fugitive he is looking for.
Luffy goes to the Gold Roger bar, whose owner personally met Roger when he arrived in Loguetown. After a brief conversation, Luffy departs, only for Smoker to enter immediately after. Smoker remembers witnessing Gol D. Roger's execution in his childhood. Just before Roger was killed, he announced that he left behind the One Piece, a legendary treasure for another pirate to find.
Luffy finally locates the execution platform. Meanwhile, Smoker discovers that the boy he had helped was indeed his target. He runs to the execution platform to capture Luffy.
Meanwhile, Zoro meets Smoker's right-hand, Tashigi, who defeats two men harassing her. Zoro helps Tashigi, but accidentally crushes her glasses when he discovers she bears a striking resemblance to his childhood friend, Kuina.

Smoker confronts Luffy as he attempts to climb the execution platform. Luffy attempts to fight Smoker, but his attack misses and he accidentally launches himself into the air and far away from the platform. There, he finds the Buggy Pirates in disguise in search of him. After being spotted, Luffy runs back to the execution platform.
Meanwhile, Tashigi forces Zoro to work as a janitor at the Marine base to pay for the glasses he broke. However, he is recognized by two other Marines as one of Luffy's crew members. Zoro attacks the Marines, takes their money and flees.
Zoro goes to the sword shop to purchase two swords, where he meets Tashigi again. After picking the supposedly-cursed Sandai Kitetsu, he decides to test his luck by throwing the blade into the air and extending his arm in the sword's way. The sword circles neatly around his arm, leaving him unharmed. Impressed with his skill and luck, the store owner decides to give him the Sandai Kitetsu as well as the Yubashiri free of charge.
Tashigi reports back to the Marine base, where she is informed that Zoro attacked two Marines.

Usopp enters a shop in search of a pair of goggles, but gets into an argument with a little girl, Carol, over a particular pair of goggles. Carol purchases the goggles for her father, infamous sniper Daddy Masterson, and Usopp, unaware of Daddy's identity as a feared bounty hunter, gets into a dispute with him. Daddy recognizes Usopp from Luffy's wanted poster. Usopp and Daddy agree to solve the dispute with a duel to the death.
The citizens of Loguetown gather to watch the duel, but Usopp cowardly attempts to flee from the duel before completing his ten paces. Daddy stops Usopp by shooting the gun from his hand, and the crowd leaves in disappointment. Usopp reveals to Daddy that he is the son of well-known pirate Yasopp.
Daddy explains his relationship with Yasopp. When the Red Hair Pirates visited Loguetown, Yasopp got into a battle with Daddy. Although Yasopp won the duel, he decided not to kill his defeated opponent, sparing his life. Upon Yasopp's parting advice, Daddy resigned from the Marines and became a bounty hunter to live closer with his daughter.
Inspired by his father's courage, Usopp decides to challenge Daddy to a second duel, to which he agrees. Usopp is tasked with shooting a weather vane in the distance, and he would be shot dead if he missed the target. However, he successfully hits his target, and he is awarded the goggles as promised.

As he walks through the streets, Sanji is challenged by Carmen, dubbed the greatest chef in the East Blue, who challenges him to the East Blue cooking contest. Sanji is initially uninterested, but later discovers the prize for winning would be a blue-finned elephant tuna, a rare fish native to the South Blue. He decides to enter the contest.
The contest, which is organized with a tournament bracket, begins, and Sanji and Carmen emerge as the two finalists. At the end of the final round, before the winner is announced, Carmen acknowledges Sanji has defeated her. Sanji is declared the winner and is awarded the fish, which is carried to the Going Merry.
Meanwhile, Luffy returns to the execution platform. He is spotted and both Smoker and Buggy follow him.

Luffy has climbed up onto the platform where Gol D. Roger was executed 22 years before. A guard calls for him to get down, since the World Government owns the platform. Alvida then hits the guard with her mace. The entire crowd, man and woman, swoons over her new look, but Luffy only remembers her previous appearance. She claims she likes how he hit her at their previous encounter, and would love to have a strong man like him. Other policemen move in, but are disarmed by Alvida's beauty.
In comes Buggy, who uses a Buggy Bomb to blow up the courtyard fountain. A piece of the fountain shoots right at Alvida, but slips right off her body, leaving her unharmed. Alvida tells Luffy she ate the Sube Sube no Mi Devil Fruit, which makes her body super-smooth and gave her a younger, more attractive appearance (which she downplays as if she always was). Then Buggy and his crew remove their capes, and Buggy talks about "Buggy-Kun's Great Adventure". The crowd runs in fear when they realize who it is, but Luffy unwittingly makes fun of his name. Cabaji slams a set of stocks down on Luffy, trapping him. Buggy declares his intention to publicly execute Luffy right there on the same platform where Gold Roger died.
Elsewhere, Nami notices bizarre weather patterns; a storm is forming unexpectedly. She tells Sanji and Usopp that they have to hurry back to the Going Merry. Zoro arrives and asks if they've seen Luffy, and has a premonition that something's about to happen. At another part of town, a Marine reports to Smoker and Tashigi that Luffy, Buggy and Alvida are all gathered in the town square. He orders one unit to sea to intercept any escape, and another to surround the square covertly for an ambush. When the other Straw Hats hear what Buggy has planned for Luffy, Zoro and Sanji run off to rescue him, leaving Nami and Usopp to take their supplies to the ship. When he surveys the scene at the square, Smoker thinks how pathetic Luffy looks. He decides to wait with his men and allow Buggy to take care of Luffy before swooping in. Luffy freaks out when he realizes he's about to die.
Nami tells Usopp this storm is going to be big. If the Marines stop Luffy and Buggy during the storm, they may not be able to escape. Marines are already preparing to raid the harbor of any pirate ships. But the Going Merry is more in imminent danger from Mohji and Richie, who guess which ship is Luffy's based on the jolly roger with the straw hat on it, intent on burning it to ensure Luffy can't escape if he manages to evade execution. Back at the square, Luffy drones for mercy as if bored. Given a chance for "last words" by Buggy, he declares that he will be the Pirate King. Those forced to stay and watch stand in shock. This buys time for Zoro and Sanji to arrive. As they fight through Buggy's and Alvida's men, however, Buggy swings the sword. Tashigi is shocked to find that Zoro is in league with a pirate. Sanji is too far away to kick the platform down. Smoker prepares to give the order to attack when Luffy's head falls. As the sword comes down, Luffy calls out to his crew.
Smoker notes that Luffy has a huge grin on his face. But right before Buggy's sword touches Luffy's neck, a bolt of lightning strikes him and the execution platform. The platform catches fire and collapses, and Luffy's hat flutters down to the ground as rain begins to fall. There to pick it up...is Luffy, standing unharmed by Buggy, who has been electrocuted. He laughs at his luck. Sanji asks Zoro if he believes in God now.
As the shocked crowd just stares at him, Smoker gives the word to attack, and Luffy, Zoro and Sanji make a run for it. As they are pursued by Marines, Smoker thinks about Luffy smiling. He thinks Luffy couldnt've known Zoro and Sanji would save him. He immediately thought of Roger. Luffy acted exactly the same way Roger did at his execution. Unit 1 was grounded because the rain ruined their gunpowder, and the new wind with the present storm would be a tail wind for a ship going to the Grand Line. Smoker decides to take Luffy on personally.
But elsewhere on the island, a man in a green hood with a large facial tattoo walks through the streets, saying the "storm of fate" has arrived.

After, escaping death by luck, Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji head for the Going Merry, but Buggy and Alvida are in pursuit. Before the duo can take off they are captured by the Marines, but the duo later escape. On the way Tashigi appears and challenges Zoro to a duel for lying to her, Zoro points out that he didn't lie, he just didn't tell her. Nevertheless, Zoro and Tashigi clash swords.
Meanwhile, Nami and Usopp reach the Going Merry as Mohji was about to burn it down. Before Mohji can properly fight Nami, the Marines catch up and shoot at Mohji. Nami and Usopp take this opportunity board the Going Merry and set sail.
At the same time, Luffy and Sanji run into Smoker, who plans to catch Luffy. Sanji goes on, while Luffy and Smoker engage in battle. Luffy's efforts to defeat Smoker are knocked back however and Smoker seemingly defeats him, but a mysterious figure stops Smoker and releases a strong gust of wind, thus giving Luffy time to escape. As Zoro also flees, Sanji reaches the shore, but is surrounded by the marines. After this, Usopp uncharacteristically risks his life by diving into the sea, shooting down the marines with his slingshot, and finally swimming to Sanji. Luffy and Zoro catch up. Luffy then uses his Gomu Gomu Rocket to propel Sanji, Usopp, and Zoro to the Going Merry.
Smoker, Tashigi, Buggy and Alvida decide to chase them to the Grand Line as they gather up in different teams. The Straw Hat crew is ecstatic to go to the Grand Line as they all make their vows before setting sail.

A little girl on one of the Marines ships break free from her room after incapacitating one of her Marine guards. As the Marines begin to search the ship, the little girl makes it onto the deck and after climbing up the mast, accidentally opens up the ship's sail, causing it to tilt sideways. She then jumps on to a life boat to escape.
Back onboard the Going Merry, Luffy asks Nami if they reached the Grand Line yet when she tells him its only been two days. Usopp then spots a flock of birds off their starboard side and Luffy stretches his hand out to grab what he thinks will be a fish. The crew are all surprised when he pulls in a girl instead and accidentally knocks Zoro off the edge of the boat. The girl is unconscious but wakes up when she smells Sanji's cooking. After learning that she is on a pirate ship, she freaks out and refuses to eat any food given to her.
Later that night as her stomach growls, it drives her to sneak into the kitchen and later witnessing Luffy getting caught in a giant mousetrap set by Sanji to prevent people from stealing from the kitchen. As the rest of the crew is woken up, the girl steals some of Luffy's food and Nami reassures her that they are not evil. The next morning after Luffy raises the anchor, the girl proceeds to make breakfast for everyone but accidentally uses the wrong spice so everything comes out too spicy. The girl introduces herself as Apis and that her home is on Warship Island. Upon questioning why she was being held by the Marines, she refuses to answer and Sanji supports her, telling everyone that it's her business.
Aboard the Marine ship, the Marines spot the Straw Hats' ship and upon realizing that the missing girl is probably aboard it, they get ready to attack. Usopp tells the others about the approaching Marine fleet as they open attack on the Going Merry. The Straw Hats' ship manages to escape on a gust of wind heading south as the Marines begin to follow. The Marines then stop when they learn that the Straw Hats' ship is heading into the Calm Belt. As the Straw Hats celebrate their victory, Nami asks Zoro what is wrong when he asks her why it seems like they are not moving. Nami then screams, exclaiming that they have entered the Calm Belt.

Having entered the Calm Belt, the Going Merry ends up on top of a Sea King's head and is surrounded by other Sea Kings, Zoro suggests that nobody should move or make a sound and hope that the beasts ignore them so they can paddle back. Usopp, in fear, shouts at the suggestion, which a Sea King hears causing it to attack the ship.
Apis falls off the ship but is rescued by Luffy before she is swallowed. She notices that Luffy's arm stretched when he rescued her. While being pulled up to the ship, she sees the Sea King's nose and asks Luffy to swing her back downwards. As she is going down, Apis grabs hold of the Sea King's nostril hair and pulls it out. Luffy finally pulls her back to the ship and Apis is caught by Zoro. The other Straw Hats realize that she pulled out the nostril hair and are panicking because the Sea King is about to sneeze, causing the ship to fall off its head. The force of the sneeze launches the ship across the Calm Belt past the Sea Kings and back to where they started outside the Calm Belt. 
The crew continue to sail on towards Warship Island. They spot what seems like a huge ship through a thick fog and are awed at its gigantic size. Apis tells them that it is not a ship but is in fact Warship Island and that it is named so because it resembles a warship.
As they are approaching the island's port, the residents see their ship and panic seeing their pirate flag. Fearful of a pirate invasion, some of the residents meet them at the shore with weapons. Apis goes down from the ship and greets them. The residents are surprised that Apis is with pirates and ask her why she brought them to the island.
The rest of the crew disembark the ship. Apis tells the residents to relax because they are not bad pirates but are nice and helpful. The residents, still skeptical about the crew, continue to question Apis about how she ended up with them since the last time they saw her, she was taken by the marines. She explains how she escaped, got stranded in the ocean and was rescued by the Straw Hats. The residents continue to ask Apis why she was taken in the first place and that it is not safe for her to stay on the island since the marines are still lurking around. An old man calls to Apis and tells her to come to his house. Nami asks who the man is, while Apis runs towards him and tells her that it is her grandfather, Bokuden. Her grandfather thanks the crew for saving his granddaughter and, in honor of Apis' safe return, invites them to a celebration, to which they accept.
Meanwhile, marines continue to patrol around the island and spot the Going Merry, the Straw Hats and Apis. This is reported to Nelson Royale, who was under the impression that the girl was lost at sea. He verifies this with Eric, who confirms that she indeed got lost at sea. Nelson Royale tells him he is wrong and relays the report to Eric that Apis is back on Warship Island and commands him to capture her again.
Back on the island, Bokuden is preparing pork buns for the celebration but says that they will not be ready for at least 4 to 5 hours. While waiting, Nami asks Bokuden why the marines are after Apis. Bokuden directs the question back to Apis to which she answers that she does not know. Nami comments that Apis mentioned earlier that she knew why they are after her but just refused to tell them. Apis brushes this off and tells them that she lied. Bokuden then says that he really does not know any reason why the marines would be after Apis and there is nothing significant about the island, except for an old legend. 
The legend goes that the people of Warship Island are descendants of Lost Island which sank into the sea a thousand years ago, which was also home to the millennial dragons. The bones of these dragons are called dragonite, also known as the Elixir of Immortality. The Straw Hats say that it does not explain why the marines are after the girl and that they must be overlooking something and that this must be connected to the legend somehow. 
Bokuden then recounts the legend from the very beginning which bores Apis causing her to leave her grandfather's house. The old man goes on for a while and some of the crew members have already fallen asleep. Luffy wakes up in hunger and leaves. On the way out, he smells the pork buns that the old man was preparing earlier and goes towards the smell. However, Apis is putting all of them inside a sack. Afraid of being caught, Apis hides and is about to hit Luffy in the head, but he stumbles to the floor and falls back to sleep before Apis can hit him. 
Nami notices that Luffy has been gone for a while and decides to also sneak out and go look for him as an excuse. She finds him inside the kitchen, and she notices a trail left by the sack Apis was pulling. Luffy and Nami follow the trail which leads them across a cliff onto the other side of the mountain towards a cave.
Inside the cave, Apis is talking to someone she calls as Grandpa Ryu. She recounts how Luffy and his crew saved her from the marines. She proceeds to give him the pork buns she brought with her knowing that he must have been hungry. Luffy and Nami hear her talking to someone and Luffy approaches her asking her where she took the pork buns. Apis is asking them to stay away, shielding something with her small body. Looking closer, Nami and Luffy see that Grandpa Ryu is actually a dragon. Luffy is excited by the sight of a legendary dragon and asks him where he comes from. While there is no audible response, Luffy seems to understand the dragon. Apis tells Luffy that Ryu is telling her that Luffy can be his friend ang that he can tell that he is a good person. Apis says that she is able to read Ryu's mind and asks how Luffy is able to understand him to which Luffy replies that he does not know and that it just happened.
Nami asks if Apis got her ability from a devil fruit. She answers that she ate the Hiso Hiso no Mi once and since then, she has been able to read the mind of any animal. She recounts how she met Ryu, that one day while playing in the fields, she heard a voice in the mountains. She followed the voice into the cave and saw Ryu. He was helpless and had used up the last of his energy searching for his friends. He told her that he got separated from them on their way to their dragon's nest in Lost Island. Nami says that she thought the island was under water, but Apis says that Ryu is certain that it will resurface any day now. The problem, however, is that Ryu does not remember where the Lost Island is located because of old age and Apis has been helping him by researching as to where it may be located. Some marines were in Warship Island, and she made the mistake of asking them if they knew where it was. The marines saw her pendant that is shaped like a millennial dragon claw and took her to question her everything she knew about Lost Island's whereabouts because of the dragonite it may contain, but she refused to tell them anything. Apis is determined to help Ryu get back to his dragon's nest as this will get him his energy back. After hearing this, Luffy says that he is going to help Ryu go back to his home. Nami protests at first because of the legend that the island is underwater and that they have no map to the said island, but Luffy is determined to help the dragon, to which she gives in.
Eric is seen going towards Warship Island and is convinced that due to Apis' possession of the pendant, she must know everything about the dragonite and its whereabouts. 

Now that the crew is informed about the reasons for which Apis was followed, they hurry to escape the island so Ryu could be saved, but they meet with a foe that wants Ryu to himself. Zoro and Usopp bring the ship to a thin rock at the side while Nami and Apis get Ryu onto a cart. Luffy and Sanji fight the Marines to buy time for all preparations. In the end, the ship pulls the cart away on the search for Lost Island.

After the Straw Hats' escape, the Marines prepare to go after them. Eric is not too worried as he feels that they will lead him to the millennial dragons. As a marine tries to report updates to Commodore Nelson, Eric stops him as he wants to keep all the dragonite for himself. Nelson, nonetheless, receives updates and is angered that Eric is keeping a millennial dragon from him. Nelson then orders to deploy a fleet towards Warship Island.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats tow Ryu in search of Lost Island. Luffy checks on him, but the dragon has fallen asleep. While Apis is serving lunch, the hot meal spills on Ryu's head. This wakes him and jogs his memory. He remembers where the Lost Island is, which is east of Warship Island. The Straw Hats head there right away.
Luffy sees "smoke" in the distance. The Going Merry draws nearer to what seems to be their ship's reflection. Luffy investigates and is "sucked" into his own reflection. The Marines who were after them, see the Merry disappear into thin air. Eric prepares to go after them.
The Going Merry is now surrounded by fog so thick that it is hard to see. Usopp comments that what they saw was a mirage which Nami confirms. The weather changes and they are caught in a storm. The strong waves cause the ropes towing Ryu to break. Zoro quickly catches the ropes and Luffy pulls Ryu to safety. Usopp spots an island at the eye of the storm and Nami decides that they should head towards it.
They reach the island and Nami remarks that an island hidden by a mirage and surrounded by stormy seas must have been why no one has never found it. They haul Ryu to the island, but the dragon is still unsure if this is even the Lost Island. They decide to head to the top of the mountain so they can find his nest. They reach a building with a dragon emblem and look for a door to enter. Apis sees a hole on the wall with the same shape as her pendant. They believe that it might be the key to opening the building. Before they could open the door, the ground below them collapses and they all fall into what seems to be a temple. They look up the ceiling and see various ancient paintings which could show clues as to where the real Lost Island is.

The Straw Hat Pirates reach the top of the mountain and the dome-shaped building. The ground beneath them crumbles, leaving them in an underground area. Luffy notices a piece of collapsed ceiling that features a painting of a Sennenryu. At first, Apis believes that the Dragon's Nest was located on this island, but upon further inspection of the ceiling paintings, Nami deduces that the Dragon's Nest was located back at Warship Island, but sank into the sea. They are convinced that the island was actually the royal court mentioned in Bokuden's story.
Apis asks Ryu where the Dragon's Nest was. After watching a flock of birds flying in the building, Ryu finally remembers that the Dragon's Nest was indeed located east of the summit at Warship Island.
Eric appears. It is revealed he had been listening to the Straw Hat Pirates' conversation and now knows where the Dragon's Nest is. Luffy attempts to break out of the building, successfully breaking a hole into the wall. However, Eric leaps into the building and fights Zoro, while the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates, along with Ryu and Apis, escape and ride on Ryu's cart.
After battling Zoro, Eric flees the building to chase Ryu. Zoro chases Eric.
Eric tries to leap off a building onto the cart, but is struck on the legs with a stick that Zoro threw. Eric finally agrees to battle Zoro. Meanwhile, the cart finally lands near the Going Merry. Luffy extends his arm, grabs Zoro, and pulls him to the ship. They set sail as Eric swears that he will not let the Straw Hat Pirates escape.
The Going Merry emerges out of the invisible barrier, much to the surprise of the Marines. Eric boards the Marine ship, and Lieutenant Commander Hardy commands the fleet to chase after the Going Merry.
The Straw Hat Pirates continue to sail towards Warship Island, only to be caught by Nelson Royale and his fleet. Nelson commands his ships to fan out, connecting the ships with chains and making an impenetrable barrier to block the Going Merry. So, the Straw Hat Pirates decide to board the ships, kick the Marines out, and cut the chains. 

The Going Merry manages to dodge Nelson Royale's cannonballs. Meanwhile, Lieutenant Commander Hardy sees Nelson's ships, and decides to relax, knowing that the Going Merry will be captured. However, Eric, who wanted the Dragon's Nest to himself, decides to pursue the Going Merry himself with a rowboat.
After Luffy uses the Gum Gum Balloon to bounce one of the cannonballs back to one of Nelson's boats, Nelson commands the Marines to use the Big Elimination Cannon. To combat this, Usopp fires a cannonball into the Big Elimination Cannon, causing it to explode.
Next, Luffy uses the Gum Gum Crossing Bridge move to create a bridge, allowing for Sanji and Zoro to board the Marine ship, then launches himself onto the Marine ship. Luffy and Sanji attack the army of Marines while Zoro cuts the chains connecting the Marine ships.
Eric boards the raft holding Ryu and Apis. He connects the raft to his rowboat and sails away. He betrays Nelson Royale, however, by refusing to give the dragon to him. Angered by his betrayal, Nelson commands the Marine ships to fire at Eric's boat. 
Eric fights with Apis over Ryu, and Eric throws her down. However, Ryu gets up, knocks Eric off the rowboat, and roars. Apis is happy that Ryu can move and fly, but to her horror, Ryu flies towards Nelson's ship, getting hit by several cannonballs on the way. 
Eventually, Ryu finally succumbs to the cannonballs, falling into the water. Ryu tells Luffy to keep Apis safe before dying.

Luffy tries to encourage Ryu to live after he has been taken down by the cannons. While doing that, Marines, ordered by Nelson, throw a harpoon; to their surprise, Luffy manages to grab it and send it back to the Marine ship, breaking some parts. Moments later, Ryu decisively positions himself to release a loud call to other sennenryus. Just later, it looks like Luffy can understand Ryu, and agrees that he will be giving Ryu's message to Apis. After that, Luffy sends his Gum-Gum Rocket, grabbing the neck of a Millennial Dragon passing by. He then proceeds to release his Battle-Axe aimed to Nelson's big ship. Luffy's leg is able to break down the ship into two halfs and all marines retreat running, scared by Luffy's powers.
The ocean nearby Warship Island, as long with Warship Island itself begin to tremble by what everyone believes is an earthquake. After that, water begins to go down and with it, an island resurfaces. To everyone astonishment, Nami figures out that sennenryus are not called by that name because of their life span, but because they are migratory creatures that come to the nest every thousand years. That nest is Lost Island, named like that because of the huge time that passes before the island is available. Sennenryus start to land and you see some of their ancestors fossilized, covered in corals. That is the so-called Dragonite that Nelson and Eric was searching for.
Almost finally, Ryu is laying on the ground with his head submerged on water. Apis screams because she does not want to lose him. Luffy tells Apis that Ryu died making his dream come true, but Apis responds screaming that Ryu was a liar, that he promised her once he could get to the nest, he will get better. Luffy comments to Apis that sennenryus are reborn in the nest. Just seconds later, a baby sennenryu hatches from an egg, the baby (presumably Ryu) screeches something to Apis, which she agrees. Lastly, Eric appears all soaked and Nelson is happy to see him, he proposes Eric deal, but Eric is too furious and slashes him with his Devil Fruit power. The Straw Hat Pirates look back to see what just had happened and they see Eric combing his distinctively ice cream like hair.

After Eric attacks Nelson and got the Straw Hats attention, he proposes the Straw Hat Crew to avoid picking up a fight and join him in his dream of obtaining Dragonite and consequently, eternal life. Eric proposes splitting the Dragonite in two parts, but Nami points out that nothing useful can be obtained by destroying the fossilized Sennenryu. He agrees to that extent but adds that there is more than enough Dragonite in the alive Sennenryu. Apis refuses and runs directly to him, in that moment he creates an attack directed to her, so Usopp quickly reacts and charges to Apis, saving her from the attack. Zoro partially unsheathes his Wado Ichimonji but Luffy says that he will be taking care of him, just as he promised Ryu just before his death.
Luffy starts the battle with his Gomu Gomu no Pistol but is dodged by Eric and counterattacked. Eric makes a lot of damage to Luffy and claims that that "rubber man" cannot beat him. After that, Eric starts making a lot of attacks and asks how will Luffy evade them, to which Luffy responds that he will not evade them and runs towards the attacks. After being cut in different places from the attacks of Eric, he manages to grab him by his arms and hit him with his Gomu Gomu no Kane, breaking Eric's distinctive eyeglasses and bringing up some blood. After the Bell technique, Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Bazooka and blows away Eric.
The Straw Hats are ready to depart and villager are there, including Apis and his grandfather. Luffy asks Apis if she wants to come with them, to which she replies that she would like to but she will stay in the village to protect the Dragon's Nest. Usopp responds that the next time the Sennenryu return would be in 1000 years. She replies that surely she will not be able to see the next generation of Sennenryu but surely the kids of their kids will. The Straw Hats set sail and say goodbye. Then Usopp asks the rest of the crew if Apis will be fine and Sanji, Luffy and Zoro say she is gonna be okay.
The crew seem to be in the direction of the Grand Line but the map that Nami is seeing seems strange to her. They discuss the possibilities and Zoro does not believe that the map is accurate. Nami gets the idea that a current might be what lets someone pass through the mountain by Usopp's phrase and they go along with it. Nami spots what might be the entrance for the mountain and Luffy orders Sanji and Usopp to set the rudder in the direction of what might be the entrance. The controller for the rudder breaks because of the strong current, Luffy jumps out of the ship and uses Gomu Gomu no Fusen so the caravel will not crash against the arcs that are along the entrance in the mountain. The caravel passes and almost at the final of the current, Eric shows up and the pirates point out that any false move and Eric will tear the ship apart. Nami warns him there is Dragonite besides him, he falls into the trap and she kicks his leg, throwing him to the current. The pirates then celebrate and think of their wishes (except Luffy) as they enter the Grand Line.

The episode opens with the Straw Hat Pirates riding down Reverse Mountain into the Grand Line, when they are suddenly engulfed in a fog, but they didn't seem to mind. Just then, Zoro hears a strange noise, though Nami says it's probably just the wind. Then Sanji claims he sees a mountain at the end of the path they were heading down. However, when the fog clears, they find out that it wasn't a mountain; it was a huge whale! At the rate they were going, they'd hit it straight on and crash. Zoro tells them to try to head for an opening off to the left, but Usopp says that the helm is still broken from before they arrived at the mountain. Zoro heads over to help, but then Luffy gets a "good" idea, and heads down below deck. Meanwhile, Zoro, Usopp, and Sanji are all trying to pull the helm in the direction they want to, but it won't budge. They were all about the crash... When suddenly, Luffy fires a cannon! While everyone is shocked, Luffy asked if they stopped. While it did slow down, the ship still crashed into the whale, but the only thing broken was the head, to which, Luffy was outraged (it was his special seat).
All the while, the whale didn't react at all. Zoro yelled out to make a run for it while it still didn't notice them. While they were rowing past its eye, Luffy, in a burst of fury, punched it directly in the eye. After a few seconds, the whale finally looked down at them. Luffy kept shouting out how he'll kick its ass, the rest of the crew kept telling him to shut up. The whale then began to suck in the water around its mouth, and with it, the Straw Hats. Luffy fell overboard, but grabbed onto one of the whale's teeth before he could hit the water. He then began to climb up the whale, as the rest of the crew was swallowed alive. Luffy, who was now sitting on top of the whale, began pounding it and telling it to let his friends go, but the whale was beginning to submerge underwater. Luffy began yelling louder and louder, until he finally noticed a door on top of the whale...
Meanwhile, the rest of the crew found themselves... in front of a small island in the middle of green waters, with a clear blue-sky overhead. Suddenly, a giant squid pops up out of the water, but someone (or something) that was apparently living on the small island quickly killed it. Nami wanted to go home, and Usopp wished Luffy were there; "he'd know what to do". Nami then began to wonder what happened to him; at the same time, Luffy found himself in some sort of passageway, very confused. Back at the small island, someone walked out of the house on the island, and revealed himself to be an old man.
The Straw Hats stared at the old man, and the old man stared back, as he pulled in the giant squid and started to walk over to a chair and began to read the newspaper. Sanji yelled at him, telling him to say something. Usopp then spurted out that they'd give him a fight he wanted. Suddenly, a few dramatic shots are shown, and then the old man suggests not to fight, otherwise someone would have died. Nami and Usopp panicked at this, though Zoro and Sanji looked calm. Then Sanji questioned who would be the one dying, and the old man simply replied that he would be the one. Sanji started getting very frustrated with the old man, but Zoro calmed him down, and tried talking to the old man, himself. He asked him where they were and who was he. Suddenly, the same dramatic sequence happened again, and the old man replied by saying if they want to know something about someone, it's only proper to introduce one's self first. However, before Zoro could introduce himself the old man already said his name was Crocus, he is the keeper of the Twin Capes Lighthouse, he's 71 and a half years old, a Gemini, and his blood type is AB. With this, Zoro got frustrated, too.
Crocus then goes on to say that this is his "one-man resort", and that they were saying such rude things to him. Usopp, again, questions if they are really in a whale's belly. Nami begins to panic, again, for worry of being digested. Crocus then begins to go through the dramatic sequence, again, but the Straw Hats tell him to stop doing that, and Crocus ask them to appreciate a good running gag. He then points out an exit doorway, to which, the Straw Hats find strange; what is a giant door doing in a whale's stomach? And why is it on the sky? It was then that they realized that the scenery was painted on. Crocus admitted that was his doing, and he liked having fun, to which Usopp started getting annoyed with him.
Then suddenly, everything started to shake and rock around, with Crocus saying that "it" started. It was then Nami noticed that the island was actually made of iron, and chained down. Usopp asked what started and Crocus replied that the whale, Laboon, has started to ram against the Red Line. Nami then came to the realization that the whale is in pain, remembering that it has many scars on it, and it bellowed into the sky. Usopp and Nami then came to the conclusion that Crocus might be trying to kill the whale from the inside out, Zoro, however, says that they should just get out of there, before the ship dissolves. Meanwhile, elsewhere inside the whale, two mysterious individuals were sneaking around carrying guns...
The Straw Hats tried to reach the doorway, but the waves were too big. Just then, Crocus dived into the liquid, and began swimming off deep into the stomach. Meanwhile, Luffy was beginning to get knocked around with the whale ramming into the mountainside. He then fell into a tunnel, with possibly the same liquid flowing between two walkways. While Luffy was questioning what it could be, the tunnel slanted downward, and Luffy fell, yet again. Meanwhile, back with the two individuals from before, who revealed themselves to be Mr. 9 and Miss Wednesday, Mr. 9 commented that their infiltration so far has been a complete success. They stand on the other side of the same doorway, Mr. 9 saying that they need to eliminate the "old geezer", for the whale's sake. Miss Wednesday agreed, saying that their town needs the whale.
Meanwhile, on the other side of the door, Crocus emerged from it, and began climbing up the side of the whale's stomach. Back on the other side, Mr. 9 and Miss Wednesday were about to get through, when Luffy fell on top of them, and they flew through the doorway and fell into the digestive juice. Meanwhile, Crocus walked off to the disclosed area, where he kept a gigantic needle filled with sedative, and injected some into the whale in order to make him stop. While he says this, he "talks" to the whale, saying no matter how hard he hits the wall, he won't break through it.
Meanwhile, back with the Straw Hats, they saved Luffy, along with the two individuals, and Zoro asked who they were. Crocus then entered the stomach again, telling the two that they won't lay a finger on Laboon (the whale). The two said that killing the whale was their mission, and they won't let him interfere anymore. They immediately shot two cannonballs from their bazookas, in order to rip a hole in the whale's stomach, but Crocus ran over and took the cannonball dead on. The two began to laugh at him, saying that they'll kill the whale to feed their town, when Luffy suddenly knocked them both out cold, saying he just had to hit them.
Later on, Crocus thanked Luffy for helping him, but Luffy said he didn't help; he just didn't want to see that happen. Nami asked who those two were and what they were doing inside the whale. Crocus explained that the two were from a nearby town, and they want the whale's meat, saying that Laboon (the whale) could feed their town for two to three years. He also explained that Laboon is an Island Whale, which inhabit the West Blue and are the largest species of whale in the world. He also says there's a reason why he keeps bashing his head against the Red Line, and why he bellows at the mountain. He explains that he is a whale with a heart like a person, and the episode ends with him has been waiting for a certain group of pirates for 50 years...

Crocus begins to tell the story of Laboon to the Straw Hat Pirates. He explains that Laboon has been waiting for a group of pirates for over fifty years. Fifty years ago, Laboon came along with a group of pirates known as the Rumbar Pirates. The pirates did not wish to bring the young whale in their dangerous journey and wanted to leave it in West Blue, where it originally inhabited but it had followed the pirates on their journey. To Laboon, the pirates were like its own family. The Rumbar Pirates stayed in the Reverse Mountain for a few months to repair their ship, during which Crocus became friends with them. Once they were ready to leave on their journey, they asked Crocus to look after Laboon and left him in the care of Crocus promising to return back after three years. The captain of the ship asked Laboon to wait for them, and promised him that no matter what happens in their journey, they would come for him and he is still their friend.
The scene shifts back to Straw Hat Pirates. They finally understand why Laboon has been bellowing and ramming his head against the wall. Crocus reveals that he is a doctor and has been treating Laboon's wound from the inside. Luffy immediately asks him to become the doctor of his crew to which Crocus declines reasoning that he is no longer as young as he used to be. Crocus finally let them out of Laboon through a tunnel and the Straw Hat Pirates briefly discuss on the possibility of the Rumbar Pirates death. Usopp declines on the possibility of their death and believes that they are indeed alive and will come back for Laboon. Crocus however says that the pirates possibly ran away from Grand Line and will not be returning back for Laboon. The Straw Hat Pirates further discuss that the pirates running away and not fulfilling their promise of coming back for Laboon, and question Crocus why he did not tell Laboon about the pirates' betrayal, as he is perfectly capable of understanding human speech. Crocus tells them that he indeed tried but the whale refused to listen to him. Sanji tells him that since Crocus himself got betrayed, Laboon should not be his problem anymore but Crocus tells him that he is not going to let the whale die as he has forged a certain relationship with it.
Suddenly, Luffy breaks the mast off Going Merry and strikes the whale with it. Laboon retaliates and begins fighting with Luffy. Luffy stops the whale and declares that it is a draw between them. Luffy labels Laboon as his rival and promises to have a rematch with him after they had completed their journey. He then asks Laboon to wait for him and not to heal himself as they will be fighting soon. Luffy then paints a Jolly Roger on Laboon's face.
Miss Wednesday and Mr. 9 escape from the Straw Hat Pirates' ship but they drop their Log Pose, which Luffy picks up. They decide to return back to their boss as the time limit to their mission was over. Suddenly, Mr. 13 and Miss Friday, the Unluckies fly over them and drop a bomb on them.
Nami discovers that the usual compass and common sense does not work on Grand Line because of the magnetic fields of various minerals found on Grand Line. Crocus says that they need to have a Log Pose in order to advance on their adventure. Luffy reveals that he found a Log Pose on the ship. Crocus then tells them that Log Pose readapts to the magnetic field of the various islands and will point them in the right direction, which when followed eventually leads to Laugh Tale. Usopp questions if the One Piece is there, to which Crocus replies that only one man and his crew has ever reached there, the Pirate King Gol D. Roger and mentions that One Piece is a myth and no one really knows if it exists or not. Luffy reveals that they will know for sure when they reach there, so it does not really matter. While they are conversing, Luffy eats all the food and Sanji kicks him for not saving any for others. The Log Pose suddenly breaks and Nami kicks both. Crocus says that he would give his Log Pose for saving Laboon. Later, Laboon brings out Sanji, Luffy, Mr.9 and Miss Wednesday out of the sea. Mr.9 and Miss Wednesday requests to go on a journey with the Straw Hat Crew to Whisky Peak, their homeland. Crocus tells the crew to leave them be for trying to hurt Laboon but Luffy agrees to take them to their hometown. The crew then continue on their journey to Whisky Peak and the episode ends with Crocus saying goodbye to the Straw Hat Crew and remembering Gol D. Roger.

The Straw Hat Pirates travel along with Miss Wednesday and Mr. 9 in the Going Merry to get them to Whisky Peak. Nami is surprised by the weather condition on the Grand Line because it changes randomly and drastically. She tells the crew that they are heading in the wrong direction and the crew follow her orders so they can get to Whisky Peak. The Straw Hat Pirates arrive at their destination, while Miss Wednesday and Mr. 9 get off the ship and start swimming immediately after they see Whisky Peak. Nami says that it is impossible to get off the island unless the Log Pose settles down. The people of the island welcome the Straw Hat Pirates, for which Straw Hat Pirates are surprised to witness a town of pirate-lovers.
The Straw Hat Pirates enjoy themselves with the people in the town. Nami is encouraged to participate in a drinking contest for a reward from Igaram. Zoro also joins Nami in a drinking contest. Sanji gets in the company of beautiful women and Usopp lies to people about his adventures for which people get impressed. Luffy eats to his satisfaction. Nami wins the contest by defeating the last contestant.
After the party is over, Igaram reveals that the Straw Hats must be captured alive, so they can get the reward without the 30% reduction that they will get if they kill the Straw Hats. Zoro appears on top of a building in front of the bounty hunters and reveals that he knew that they were pretending to be pirate-lovers. Igaram and the others are surprised and say that Zoro must be killed. Zoro suddenly disappears instantly and everybody gets surprised.

The Billions of the Baroque Works confused on why Zoro disappeared, they started to look for him when suddenly Zoro was right in the middle of the crowd looking up at the roof he was from. The people around him started shooting but they ended up shooting each other as Zoro once again disappeared. Mr. 8 commanded them to kill him because he is just one swordsman. Suddenly, Zoro was back-to-back with Mr. 8 and Zoro slides his sword through Mr. 8's hair. Zoro asked Mr. 8 if adding only one grave is enough. The Billions found Zoro on Mr. 8's back and as they were to shoot him, Mr. 8 shot them with his trumpet fearing he would be shot, too.
It is revealed where Zoro is disappearing to as he is seen hiding on a wall. Mr. 9 was convinced that they have to deal with him themselves. Meanwhile, in the bar, Nami is awake and was really not drunk. She discovered that the "welcoming town" is a nest of bounty hunters. Outside, as Zoro attempts to test Yubashiri and Sandai Kitetsu, his 2 new swords, a Billion on the roof of the building Zoro was hiding found him and shot him. Zoro dodged the shot and went inside the house but many Billions was outside and started shooting him. He flipped a table and went behind it like a shield. He started using Yubashiri and cut the people on the door. He appreciated its lightness. He went up a ladder to a roof of another building and found a Billion with a bazooka who shot him immediately the instant he went up. But Zoro dodged it quickly.
Miss Monday, on another roof behind Zoro, threw a barrel of wine at him and Zoro turned around and cut it in 4 pieces. He said that the wine was wasted as the 4 cut parts of the barrel hit the Billions behind him. Another Billion attempted to hammer him behind but his other sword, Sandai Kitetsu, rashly responded without Zoro commanding it. Zoro is now convinced on why it is cursed. A child tried to attack him and lost but his "mother" went to him praying to God for divine protection when suddenly they put up a cross and smoke went out of its center. The nun and the child had easily lost as Zoro was behind them already, but he used the back of his sword. The Billions went inside the bar and stepped on Usopp and Luffy. Usopp woke up but slept again and asleep Sanji held his arm when they were spread as he mistook it as a lady's arm. Nami is searching for treasure but she only found little.
Zoro is at the very top of a building and the Billions thought they cornered him but as a Billion climbed up a ladder, he flipped the ladder and jumped to another roof and did Hawk Wave to the Billions there. Billions started jumping to him but he walked away and warned the Billions that he cut a hole on the roof and the Billions did fell down. Zoro nearly got hit by a ladder because of Miss Monday. Miss Monday threw the ladder and wore her brass knuckles. She put Zoro down the ground and did Kairiki Meriken ("Superhuman Strength Fist") punching Zoro on the head. The roof cracked and the agents told it was "The End". As they were about to walk away, Miss Monday screamed and Zoro is seen holding her head with only one hand effortlessly. Mr. 8 said that the Marines made a mistake on the wanted posters and they thought that Zoro was the captain worth 30,000,000. Mr. 9 tells Zoro that the lower the number of codename, the stronger the member. With the three of them given a single digit codename, he told him that the Billions he took out was not close to their strength.
Mr. 8 tried to shoot him with shotgun trumpet and Mr. 9 went up while Miss Wednesday called for Karoo. Karoo let out his hand thinking that Miss Wednesday wants to handshake but Miss Wednesday told her to "come here". Miss Wednesday told him to run but he sat instead. Mr. 9 is on the roof higher than Zoro's position and did Nekketsu Nine Konjou Bat ("Hot Blooded 9 Guts Bat") flipping over while going down and brought out 2 black baseball bats. But with one sword, Zoro can easily hae the advantage. Zoro taunted Mr. 9 and he attempted to jump back to prepare but instead fell down because it was the edge of the roof already. Zoro asked if there is anyone better and Miss Wednesday, behind Zoro, answered that would be her while calling Zoro Mr. Bushido (a warrior code of honor). She did Miwaku no Kousui Dance ("Alluring Perfume Dance"). Zoro knelt down because the perfume was very stinky and Miss Wednesday brought out her Kujakki Slasher ("Peacock Slasher"). Miss Wednesday commanded Karoo to run but he went straight past Zoro and fell to the ground. Mr. 8 tried to shoot him but he dodged at the same time went through a hole and went out the building. Mr. 9 woke up and did Kattobase Shikomi Bat ("Home-Run Training Bat") and one of his bats extended and tied up Zoro's arm. Miss Wednesday told Zoro not to move or Luffy will be killed as Luffy is held still sleeping and Miss Wednesday is holding a knife. Cannons started to pluck out of Mr. 8's hair and shot Zoro. Zoro dragged Mr. 9 and got shot instead and dragged him to Miss Wednesday and Karoo.
He jumped at Luffy's very fat stomach and went up to the roof where Mr. 8 stands slashing through him. Luffy woke up wondering why he is outside but went asleep again. As the Unluckies was going to attack some escaping Billions, Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine stopped them and instead attacked the Billions bombing them. Mr. 8 and the others were found by Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine and insulted on how pathetic they were. Mr. 9 thanked them thinking they were here to back them up but their real mission was to eliminate the agents who are important members of a certain kingdom because they know the Boss' "secret". Mr. 9 told them that he was not really a king and his crown was just his style but they were referring to Miss Wednesday who is the currently missing Princess of Arabasta Kingdom. Mr. 8, now revealed to be the Captain of Royal Guard of Arabasta named Igaram, shot them with his cannons. Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine was unharmed and told Igaram and Princess Nefertari Vivi (Miss Wednesday) that they are under arrest.

Igaram, Head of Security of Alabasta, continued to launch his assault on Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine, who have discovered both his identity and that of Miss Wednesday: Nefertari Vivi, Royal Princess of Alabasta. Zoro observed the attack from the rooftop, musing about Luffy being trapped in the crossfire and having to go rescue him. As Igaram continued his attack, he yells for Vivi to escape, but she can only watch in terror.
Amidst the smoke and gunfire, Mr. 5 launched a projectile at Igaram, who is promptly consumed in a powerful explosion as both Vivi and Mr. 9 watch in shock. The smoke began to clear, and Igaram, severely injured, fell. Vivi called out to him in terror, but was interrupted by Miss Valentine, who attacked Vivi after telling her it is useless. Vivi escaped with nothing but a broken hairband, and attempted to launch a counter-attack with her Peacock Slashers on Miss Valentine, who promptly floated out of range while laughing, and returned to Mr. 5's side. As Vivi seethed, Mr. 9 expressed his amazement at his partner's royal status; Vivi promptly yelled at him for doing so in the midst of a dangerous situation. Zoro, meanwhile, took the chance to drag off a still sleeping, still bloated Luffy. Igaram, still somehow conscious, begged Vivi to abandon him and escape, for the sake of their home Alabasta. Mr. 5 proceeded to pick his nose while calmly stating that it is impossible for Vivi to escape. Enraged, Vivi drew her other Peacock Slasher and challenged the Baroque Works agent. Before she can attack however, Mr. 9 stands between her and the pair of assassins. While admitting confusion at the situation, Mr. 9 recounts how long he and Vivi have worked together, and told her to run as he buys her some time. As Vivi thanked him, Mr. 9 says his goodbyes and proceeds to charge at Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine with his acrobatics.
Mr. 5 stated that all that is required of agents is to do their jobs effectively while he pulled out a booger from his nose, chastising Mr. 9 for forming a friendship with his partner. When Mr. 9 attempted to attack, Mr. 5 aims the booger and launched it at Mr. 9, which proceeded to explode and send Mr. 9 flying clear into the river. Vivi watched this in horror, while Zoro observed in bewilderment. While Zoro was distracted, Igaram grabs Zoro's leg, which  surprised the pirate swordsman. Igaram stated that he has a "most unfair" request of Zoro, but required someone of his strength. Igaram continued, saying that both of the agents have Devil Fruit powers, and that he Igaram was hopelessly outmatched against them. As such, Igaram begged Zoro to protect Vivi in his place. All the while, Zoro was struggling to get Igaram to let go of his leg.
Miss Valentine laughed at the situation while Mr. 5 picked his nose, and Vivi hopped on Karoo's back, commanding him to run. Miss Valentine commented on this, while Mr. 5 states that Vivi will not get far before chasing after her, Miss Valentine followed right behind him.
Despite his injuries, Igaram continued to beg Zoro to protect Vivi, promising riches in return for doing so. Zoro angrily refused, mentioning how Igaram and his group had just been attempting to kill Zoro. However, Nami interjected, having overheard the conversation from a rooftop- and the mention of a reward. Nami stated that she will take the job, but only in return for 1 billion. Igaram was shocked at Nami's price, while Zoro and Nami converse. Zoro expressed surprise that Nami was awake, while she retorts that it had all been an act, not trusting "a town that welcomes Pirates". She then turned her attention to Igaram, and said that if he wanted Vivi to escape alive, he had better promise the reward of 1 billion. Igaram stated that his status prevented him from offering such a reward, but Nami retorts by emphasizing the danger to Vivi's life. Desperate, Igaram stated that while he cannot make any promises, the crew could negotiate a reward with Vivi herself. Nami mentions that this would require keeping up their part of the deal, but Igaram pleaded desperately. Nami relented, and proceeded to order Zoro to save Vivi, much to the swordsman's anger, saying that he is not going to get involved in Nami's schemes. Nami attempted to explain business to Zoro, but he refuses to fall for her explanation. Nami makes light of the situation, while Zoro vented his frustration at her attempting to order him around just as she took advantage of Sanji. During their conversation, Luffy finally wakes from his slumber.
Nami insults Zoro and says that he is just afraid of losing, while Zoro is quickly losing what remains of his patience. A bloated Luffy, still half-asleep, walks by the two obliviously in order to find the facilities. Nami then brings up the loan she gave Zoro, but he counters by mentioning that he did not even spend any of it. Nonetheless, Nami counters by saying that he promised to pay her back in 300% interest, bringing his due to 300,000. Zoro is shocked that Nami expects him to pay her back when he did not spend any of the money in the first place, but Nami persists. She then proceeds to question whether or not Zoro can even keep one little promise (apparently hitting a sore spot), leaving Zoro shocked, furious, and silent. While Zoro grumbles about Nami dying a horrible death, he nonetheless relents and leaves to find Vivi. Igaram muses about his own apparent uselessness, but Nami comforts him by telling Igaram how strong Zoro is. Nonetheless, Igaram morbidly goes on about how Alabasta would be doomed if Vivi died, confusing Nami.
Vivi and Karoo continue to flee, with the intention of stealing a ship and fleeing back to Alabasta.
A still-bloated Luffy relieves himself in a river before intending to go back to sleep, but comes across the carnage that Zoro left behind.
Vivi and Karoo continue running away, but are promptly intercepted by Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine. Vivi and Karoo run a different route and are met by Miss Monday, who explains that they can reach the ships by taking the path behind her, explaining that she will hold off Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine while Vivi makes her escape. Vivi hesitates, but Miss Monday explains that the loss to Zoro means punishment already awaits, so she might as well go down while protecting her friend. She then yells at Vivi to stop waiting around and flee, saying that otherwise Igaram and Mr. 9's sacrifices would be in vain. Vivi thanks Miss Monday before she and Karoo run away again, leaving Miss Monday to face Mr. 5. While Mr. 5 muses about both her and Mr. 9's defection, Miss Monday remains determined to prevent him from passing. Miss Valentine mocks Miss Monday's resolve, while Mr. 5 rushes Miss Monday, calling her a disgrace. Miss Monday attempts to attack, but Mr. 5 dodges and clotheslines her, causing a powerful explosion. Hearing the explosion, Vivi temporarily halts her escape to look back as her friend is defeated, seeing an inferno. She can only stare in utter horror as her friend got beaten.
Vivi is shocked at the brutality, while Mr. 5 explains his powers are from the Bomu Bomu no Mi and that he has yet to fail a mission. Miss Valentine then explains her own powers, originating from the Kiro Kiro no Mi. Miss Valentine then uses her powers to turn herself into a living missile and slam down on Miss Monday with the weight of 10,000 kilograms. Upon standing up, the pair condescendingly state that it is futile for Vivi to escape, and that she does not stand a chance. Vivi however, remains determined to return to Alabasta and save her kingdom. Mr. 5 prepares to attack, but Zoro intercepts, saving a shocked Vivi. Vivi, believing Zoro to still be an enemy, prepares to attack him, but Zoro cuts Vivi's weapon and holds the edge of his blade at her throat, followed by explaining that he is here to help and she needs to calm down.
Meanwhile, Nami and Igaram continue talking, with Nami questioning just what Baroque Works is. Igaram hesitates, but then explains that the Baroque Works is a crime syndicate, specializing in sabotage, assassination, and bounty-hunting, and so secretive that none of the agents know the boss' name or face, but will nonetheless act on his orders. Nami questions this logic, but Igaram goes on to say that Baroque Work's primary goal is to create a Utopia, and that those who do their part get a higher standing in said nation. He then continues, explaining the codename and rank system within Baroque Works.
Miss Valentine guesses that Zoro is the one who defeated all of the "lowly employees" in Whisky Peak, while Mr. 5 questions as to why Zoro would want to get involved in protecting Vivi. Zoro simply states that he has his own reasons, while Mr. 5 says that they will have to eliminate Zoro for his interference. Zoro and Mr. 5 prepare to fight, but are interrupted by the shout of an enraged Luffy. While Vivi is confused, Zoro states that while glad to have Luffy's assistance, he can handle the attackers. However, Luffy proceeds to yell threats at Zoro, much to the swordsman's shock and confusion. While Zoro questions what Luffy could be asking, Luffy angrily explains how he came across the men Zoro fought, and was tricked into believing Zoro attacked unprovoked. Zoro attempts to explain, but Luffy ignores him and yells at Zoro to fight him. Vivi comments on Luffy's lack of intelligence (to Karoo's agreement), while Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine discuss letting the two kill each other off. Zoro continues his attempts at explanation, but Luffy will not have and attacks. Zoro dodges Luffy's assault while attempting to calm down his captain. Miss Valentine and Mr. 5 muse from the sidelines before deciding to return to their mission: eliminating Princess Vivi. However, Zoro kicks the bloated rubber man into the pair, sending the three of them flying. Having had enough interference, Mr. 5 explains his intentions to kill both Luffy and Zoro, and attacks Luffy while Zoro and Vivi watch from a distance. In the midst of the explosions, Miss Valentine flies up and prepares to attack Zoro and Vivi. Vivi tells Zoro to flee, but Zoro interrupts her. Luffy then steps out of the smoke, having digested the food that he ate and dragging a beaten and bloodied Mr. 5. Vivi is utterly shocked at Luffy's victory over such a powerful foe. Luffy turns his attention back to Zoro, who tries to explain the situation. Miss Valentine floats above the swordsman and tries to explain her powers, but becomes quite angry when she finds she is being ignored.
Luffy does not believe Zoro's explanation (based on the concept that enemies would not give them such tasty food); Zoro is done attempting to explain, and casually dodges Miss Valentine's attack attempt, and prepares to fight Luffy. While Vivi is confused, the crew mates charge each other, launching a Gomu Gomu no Bazooka and Oni Giri respectively, the attacks cancelling each other out as the two grapple. Zoro and Luffy decide to test steel against rubber, and Zoro launches a Tatsu Maki, flinging Luffy into the air. To Zoro's surprise, Luffy is able to launch a Gomu Gomu no Pistol, landing a direct hit as they both slam into walls. Vivi ponders the situation as she and Karoo warily tread the battlefield, before both Luffy and Zoro break out of the rubble and resume their attacks. Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine observe the ferocious battle, Mr. 5 commenting that the pair are making fools of them on their own turf, and that Baroque Works will be shamed if they fail their mission. The two charge headlong into the battle, but are promptly disposed of by the captain and Zoro for interrupting their battle.

Having defeated Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine, Luffy and Zoro turn back to each other, prepared to resume their own battle. Vivi and Karoo watch helplessly, still shocked that they beat a Baroque Works Officer Agent pair so easily. But before they can strike their first blows at each other, Nami knocks them both silly. While Luffy finally understands why Zoro was fighting Whisky Peak's denizens, Nami presses Vivi on a 1 billion contract to return her to the Arabasta Kingdom. Vivi says it is unlikely she will be able to pay due to the brewing civil strife in her home kingdom. She had learned a few years before that Baroque Works was manipulating the populace of Arabasta for the purpose of usurping her father, the King. She asked Igaram, one of her closest allies, to help her infiltrate the organization and find out who was pulling the strings.
She is reluctant to reveal who the leader is since doing so would expose her and put her on his hit list. However, in her growing nervousness, she inadvertently reveals who the leader is: Mr. 0 is Crocodile, one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea.
As she utters his name, the Unluckies, Mr. 13 and Miss Friday, stand in silence, perched above them atop a brick wall. After Mr. 13 makes composite sketches of Luffy, Zoro, and Nami, the Unluckies fly off. Nami is enraged by this turn of events, but shakes off out of anger for getting them into this. Vivi repeatedly apologizes sincerely for accidentally telling them, saying it just slipped out, but Nami is still not satisfied. While Zoro and Luffy are excited to potentially be on a Warlord's hit list, Nami laments being in such mortal danger the moment they enter the Grand Line. While they try to figure out what to do, Igaram returns. He has arrived dressed vaguely like Vivi and carrying three dummies, which are supposed to be the present Straw Hats. He will use Vivi's Eternal Pose to get straight to Arabasta, and will act as a decoy. He recommends that Vivi island-hop to Arabasta with the Straw Hats using their Log Pose, making it harder for Baroque Works to trace them. Igaram says that before Crocodile became a World Government-sanctioned privateer, he had a bounty of 80 million, so he is highly dangerous. Luffy eagerly accepts the challenge.
Shortly after Igaram sets sail, his ship explodes in a fireball even bigger than Whisky Peak itself, incinerating the decoys and sending the Eternal Pose into the water. Angered, Luffy runs to the Going Merry to set sail. Nami quickly comforts Vivi, who presumes Igaram to be dead. She promises that her crew can easily handle Baroque Works, and they will get her home. Luffy finds Sanji and Usopp, grabs them, and drags them to the ship. Vivi wonders where Karoo went, but he turns up on the ship already. While they prepare to sail, a woman comments on how foolish the decoy was. Vivi directs them down a river to get to sea, saying that Baroque Works has a total of over 2,000 agents with several bases along the way to Arabasta.
As dawn breaks, the Going Merry gets out to open water in a light fog. An unknown voice joins the ship, and they see someone stowing away, the woman from the previous night. She compliments the Going Merry. Vivi instantly recognizes the woman as the Vice President of Baroque works and female partner of Mr. 0 himself: Miss All Sunday. She says she ran into Mr. 8 (Igaram) just a bit ago, implying she was the one that blew up his ship. Luffy just wants to know why she is on their ship and who is she. Luffy then asks if she is bad. Miss All Sunday says she allowed Vivi to follow her and find out who Mr. 0 was, intrigued by a young girl trying to save her kingdom, but calling it ridiculous. Zoro and Nami draw their weapons, while Usopp and Sanji aim weapons at her, Usopp with his slingshot and Sanji with a pistol. Usopp notes it is out-of-character for Sanji to threaten a woman, but Sanji explains he sees her as a threat to Vivi. Miss All Sunday nonchalantly tells them not to point dangerous things at her, and suddenly they get disarmed. They realize she is a Devil Fruit user of some sort. Sanji also, after seeing how beautiful Miss All Sunday looks, predictably falls for her.
Miss All Sunday says she has no orders, so she has no reason to deal with them right now. She also reveals she has heard of Luffy as she sneaks his straw hat off with her power. She then reveals that Nami's Log Pose is pointing to Little Garden, home to one of the bases of Baroque Works. She tosses Luffy back his hat, and gives Vivi an Eternal Pose that points to Nanimonai Island, an uninhabited island near Arabasta. It will bypass all of their bases and supposedly allow Vivi to get safely home. Although Vivi thinks about it, Luffy crushes the Eternal Pose without a second thought. He tells Miss All Sunday he will not allow an outsider to determine his crew's course. Luffy also says he hates her because she exploded Igaram's ship. She responds by saying she likes Luffy's spirit, and that they should meet again someday if they make it through Baroque Works. She then departs, riding a large sea turtle. Vivi collapses, frustrated by Miss All Sunday's ambiguous nature. The others clue Usopp and Sanji in on what is going on as they continue their journey.
Elsewhere, Miss All Sunday wonders how the Straw Hats will fare when they get to Little Garden. A quick view of an island foreshadows with a jungle, a tiger and an enormous footprint relative to the tiger and the jungle.

The Going Merry suddenly stops because the wind ceases to propel its sail. Vivi comments that time is running as they speak. Luffy interrupts Nami to exclaim it is time to fish and Karoo seems to like the idea. Sanji asks if anyone has seen the bait and Luffy responds he ate the stuff in there while pointing at the bucket with his eyes. Sanji points they were bugs while Luffy grabs the last one with only two of his fingers. While he has the bug halfway in his mouth, he says they taste good. Sanji adds that they cannot fish now since he ate the bait. Luffy brings out an object and says they can use it for bait, but Sanji replies that you cannot catch anything with that. Luffy points at Karoo and asks what about him, Sanji answers that it sounds okay. Luffy and Sanji start chasing Karoo around the mast while Nami and Vivi watch. Suddenly, they step on Zoro's forehead while he is asleep. Zoro consequently gets mad. Nami gets angry and Sanji comments that she is lovely when she gets angry. Nami remembers all the big names Luffy has beaten because Vivi thinks it is strange that he has a 30,000,000 bounty. Nami mentions that Luffy defeated Arlong, Pirate Fleet Commodore Don Krieg, and Captain Kuro. Zoro then adds that she forgot someone and Nami speaks the name of Axe-Hand Morgan. Upon mentioning his name, Luffy remembers about Koby and the sail catches wind. Then, Luffy states (after Nami asks) that "he" is his friend. The scene goes to a town with 3 Marine ships and Koby commandeering them. Then he starts telling Luffy that he has achieved his dream of becoming a Sub-Lieutenant. Suddenly, a gigantic watery Morgan emerges from the ocean and is about to chop Koby with his axe when another gigantic Luffy stops Morgan's arm. Luffy throws the giant Morgan and the view starts to shine with glitter. Then Koby faints and the scene goes to reality where Koby fells above Helmeppo (who is sleeping below him) and wakes him up.
Helmeppo gets mad and everybody that was asleep get angry because they were so noisy. Koby is a chore boy along with Helmeppo. A Marine soldier tells them that they enlisted without any qualifications resulting in them being chore boys. Ironically, Koby is still enthusiastic in doing whatever he can while Helmeppo gets mad at Koby for volunteering to more jobs and slacking at doing the chores. They go outside to clean windows and Helmeppo as usual is slacking again remembering his old days when Morgan was still a captain. It is clearly seen in the flashback that Helmeppo greatly depended on Morgan's terror because when he spilled his own cocoa, he scolded the soldiers and made reminded them of his father. He then thought that him being a chore boy was Luffy's fault as he stripped his dad's position. Koby told Helmeppo that blaming someone will not change anything even your fate. He told Helmeppo that that is a sign of being weak also emphasizing his reliance to his dad. When Koby told Helmeppo his dream about being a Marine officer, Helmeppo disbelieved telling him that is impossible but Koby said he will still do it when he saw how Luffy lived his life and risk his life accomplishing it. They fought on the roof about the probability of their dreams and their cooperation and some Marine soldiers gathered around the building. They suddenly fell and landed on crates and a cannon beside the crates turned around and shot its cannonball hitting a building destroying it. As punishment, they will not get any money for 50 years and they went to eat where Rika and her mom's store. They say that they escaped from them. Rika brings out a newspaper telling Luffy escaping from Smoker and from Loguetown and Koby discovers that he has reached the Grand Line.
In ship, Marine soldiers are guarding Morgan as he is going to a trial. Helmeppo and Koby are on the ship and upon seeing him, both of them get scared. The captain tells them that their mission is to escort him to give him to Vice Admiral Garp's custody so he will go for a court trial. Helmeppo and Koby are cleaning swords and cannonballs and Helmeppo tells Koby that he respected his father. Helmeppo says he wants to be like his father, but he knows he went too far, abusing his position. Helmeppo starts crying and wonders why he is crying. He asks Koby if his dad will be executed leaving Koby unable to answer. Garp's ship finally arrives and Helmeppo and Koby go out to see him. Garp is wearing his dog hat. When they give Morgan to Garp's custody, Garp briefly falls asleep. The captain shouts at him but he shouts back telling him he can hear him. He says he has not slept for 5 days and that he has reached a new record of doughnuts, having eaten 842 without stopping. Garp falls asleep again but Morgan slashes him and he breaks his chains, getting Helmeppo as a hostage. He says that he does not need a son and that he just wants freedom. Morgan sails with a small boat still holding Helmeppo and the soldiers are prepared to fire a cannon. Koby stands in front of the cannon and stops them from shooting. He tells them his friend is in the boat. He swims in order to reach the small boat and Garp wakes up as if nothing has happened. He yawns stretching his arms. He puts down his hand smashing the cannon and tells them that the commotion wake him up. When someone tells him they thought he was killed, Garp understands that someone (not him) was killed and he must have missed it while sleeping. He asks where the victim is, and upon realization, he looks at his slashed chest and jokingly tells them it was him. Morgan commands Helmeppo to turn dues west and Helmeppo refuses as he cannot take it anymore. Helmeppo says he will arrest Morgan, but Morgan punches him and asks if he knows who he is talking to. He asks what can he do alone and Koby climbs up the ship, letting him know he is not alone. Koby tells Morgan to come along quietly as he will "arrest" Morgan too.
Garp looks at them through binoculars while eating a doughnut. The boys are easily defeated. As they are fighting Morgan, Morgan grabs Koby and gets ready to hit him. As he is about to hit him, he throws the two away instead, as they are not worth killing. Helmeppo says he will let Morgan escape today, but someday, they will cross paths again and he will surely capture him on that day. When they get back to the ship, the Marine soldiers apologize because they had let the criminal escape and it was due to their negligence of not stopping Koby. The captain says they will dismiss the two of them because of their actions. Garp says he has no choice but to tell them to go with him to Marine Headquarters and tells them if they do not like it, they can run away. With that, Koby and Helmeppo sail with Garp and now headed to where Luffy is, the Grand Line.

The episode starts and Usopp is fantasizing and talking to himself about how everyone in Little Garden will welcome him. Then Zoro (who is at the lowest deck) grabs an apple from a barrel full of them, takes a bite of it and asks Usopp if he is an idiot. Usopp responds to Zoro by yelling that he could hear what Zoro just said while kicking the bottom part of wooden where he is seated. Nami yells at both of them to keep quiet and apologizes to Vivi. Vivi keeps explaining to Nami why there are no islands, but it is easy to hit reefs due to elevated corals (presumably on the Grand Line). While they are speaking the scene goes to Sanji who is cooking, and suddenly, Usopp shows up through the window on the kitchen and smiles (probably due to Sanji's food). Sanji makes the girls know that the desert is ready and when he is serving it Usopp shows in between Nami and Vivi. Sanji, in a mad way, lets Usopp know that his food is "over there". Later, Sanji asks the girls where does Luffy is and Nami replies she asked Luffy to draw water for her because she wants to take a shower. She then says Luffy must be at the water-drawing machine. Sanji comments no wonder he has been quiet all that time. Immediately after, a loud noise comes from a room and Luffy having come out of it. Luffy then adds that he was just using the machine when it suddenly broke and Nami punches him in the head. After that, everyone except Usopp is seated around a table and while Nami is reading the newspaper, Luffy sees an image where Koby appears and asks Nami to tell him what does the article says.
Koby and Helmeppo are amused by the amount of work the marines seem to do in the Marine Headquarters. Then, both of them are hiding in an alley and Helmeppo talks about giving up because the work there seems so hard for him to keep up with. Koby tries to encourage him to persevere because Helmeppo said to his father that he will surpass him no matter what. When he talks about why they should not run away, Vice Admiral Garp shows up behind them. Suddenly, they both are afraid of what Garp will do to them. Koby tries to justify his saying by clarifying him and Helmeppo will do anything that Garp orders, and that they are prepared to die.
The scene goes then to the "Sea food" restaurant where Rika and Ririka are talking to the marines in charge of Shells Town. Rika lifts up a bank, bring it close to a marine (presumably the one in charge) and starts hitting him in the head with his two fists. She complains about how she would have liked to spent more time with them. She also adds that she was learning to cook in order to prepare them a tasty lunch sometime. You can see her face crying before you can watch two sprouts in flowerpots (presumably as an analogy with how much room for growth Koby and Helmeppo have, since they have joined the Marine HQ).
Then, the scene goes to Koby and Helmeppo washing the floor as Helmeppo complains about how doing chores will make him a marine. It is also notable that Garp is watching over them, so they wash faster. As when the night has set, you hear Koby and Helmeppo's chat. Helmeppo comments how Vice-Admiral Garp was called "Garp the Fist" and was quite feared by everyone. He then talks about how if he wants to become stronger, faster, he has to build his body over the nights. Koby disagrees with this idea, since it is likely to overwork the body because of the need to sleep. Helmeppo does not seem to listen and since he is already going downstairs, Koby joins him too. It looks like they have been training hard for a long time. One day they are talking about Luffy and Garp listens to them. Garp takes them to beach to test their mentality and they pass his test. Garp gives them a special training and they appear to be following it. The scene goes back to the Straw Hat Pirates and everybody is asleep except for Nami. Nami watches Vivi as she sleeps and stores the newspaper in a drawer. Luffy gives the order to set sail to Little Garden while asleep and the boys of the crew agree with him, also while asleep.

Luffy asks if it will to snow again and Zoro responds there is no way it would. Luffy says to Zoro that it does snow, but he did not notice it last time because he was asleep. Luffy asks Vivi if she think it will snow and she answers that the first sea that they were at was special, since the magnetic forces mess everything up. She also warns the crew never to underestimate the Grand Line sea as an ironclad rule. Vivi gets mad about how everyone is acting, not taking anything seriously enough. Sanji leaves out the kitchen, having prepared 9 drinks for the crew. Karoo Nami assures her that when things get rough, they know how to handle it. Vivi realizes she is right when a colossal dolphin attacks them, making everyone rush to their stations to outrun the gigantic threat. After that, the crew see the mysterious Little Garden island shrouded in fog as everyone gets excited to encounter their second island in their trip on the Grand Line.
The scene goes to Mr. 3 and Miss Goldenweek, who are seen on Kyuka Island. While Mr. 3 is preparing himself an Earl Grey tea they discuss the downfall of Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine. Mr. 3 talks to Miss Goldenweek on how Mr. 5 is just "an idiot with devil fruit powers" who was overconfident in his position. He then states that they will teach whoever defeated Mr. 5 the terror of making a criminal organization their enemy.
Returning to the crew, they remember what Miss All Sunday said about the island, stating that they will all be dead before they reach Arabasta. The crew gets restless as they see more of the island, but keeps on going due to lack of food and materials. As they enter the island, Sanji gets attacked by a gigantic bird signalling that this island is not normal at all. To reassure that notion, a huge tiger prowls beside the boat and then keels over with blood.
Luffy them demands to visit the island, and Vivi comes with him because she does not want to dwell in her problems. So Luffy, Vivi and Karoo depart after Sanji has made a pirate lunch for the three of them. Zoro decides to take a walk, and Sanji asks him to get some edible-looking animals to bring back. Zoro makes a smart remark and challenges Sanji to see if he can get a bigger animal than him. Sanji furious with this, embarks onto the island to get more kilos than Zoro, and Zoro responds by saying they will compete for tons.
Creeped out by the noises, Nami realizes that she remembers something about Little Island in a book and starts searching for it. Luffy and Vivi find a shellfish that looks like a squid, just as the sound of giant footsteps are coming from behind. As the time being, Sanji nearly gets eaten by a T. rex. Zoro encounters a Triceratops and wonders if it is edible. Luffy and Vivi also find a dinosaur, but this one is a Brachiosaurus.
Vivi then realizes what is happening on the island, saying due to the Grand Line being so dangerous nothing has been able to migrate from the island, preserving the unique ecosystem Little Garden has.
Nami tells Usopp about what inhabits the island, just as a giant mysterious figure is seen inside the jungle.

As Nami and Usopp see someone gigantic approximating the Going Merry through breaking trees across the forest, they start crying. A giant comes out and asks Nami and Usopp for alcohol. Nami respond that the only alcohol they have is for cooking and disinfection. The giant screams in pain because he just got bitten by a T. rex from the back. He chops the T. rex head and introduces himself as Brogy, claiming to be the strongest warrior of Elbaf. He also calls Nami and Usopp as guests but, frightened, the two play dead.
Elsewhere, Luffy and Vivi are exploring. Luffy comments the view on top of the Brachiosaurus and says he wants to have lunch in there. Luffy then starts to play along the necks of the Brachiosaurus and gets eaten by one of them. A giant slashes the neck of the dinosaur and catches Luffy with his hand and tells him he has been watching him. The giant introduces himself as Dorry, Elbaf's strongest warrior. Luffy introduces himself, Vivi, and Karoo before Dorry invites them to his home.
Brogy takes Usopp and Nami to his place, where he is roasting dinosaur meat to treat them as his guests. They, however, fearing to be eaten themselves, try to escape through the jungle. Either way, after being chased by larger and larger predators, they end up back at Brogy's feet.
Back to Dorry, he tells Luffy, Karoo, and Vivi that he is engaged in a duel that has lasted one hundred years. Whenever the island's central volcano erupts, the two face each other in combat.
Meanwhile in the jungle, Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine join forces with Mr. 3 and Miss Goldenweek, who plot to earn the giants' huge bounties.

Usopp, who is immensely impressed with the giants' fight, decides to strive to be like them and starts calling Brogy, Master. After their fight, which, like thousands before it, ends in a draw, Dorry receives two barrels of alcohol from Brogy, which he obtained from Nami and Usopp. When Dorry later drinks it and it badly injures him from within, he accuses the Straw Hats. Left with no choice, Luffy fights the weakened giant and knocks him out. Unbeknownst to the crew and giants, the contents of one of the barrels has been rigged to explode. However, by the time of the next eruption of the center volcano, Dorry gets back up and heads into battle, knowing his chances to be low.

Ignoring the fact that he's badly injured, Dorry puts a gigantic rock on top of Luffy to prevent him to interfere in his fight with Brogy. Then, the two giants meet and start to fight once again.
Zoro finds Nami in the middle of the forest, but he suspects that it's not all right; Nami finds Luffy but she's immediately attacked. Usopp, left alone in the forest, screams in panic and runs until he reaches Vivi and Luffy. Vivi suspects that Baroque Works is responsible for the disapparitions and for the sneak attack with the barrel.
Mr. 3 in fact has planned to make Brogy defeat Dorry and some minutes later it really happens. Brogy, not knowing the help received, bursts in tears, but Mr. 3 immediately blocks his legs with a strange substance. Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine reach Dorry's base bringing Karoo with them: they found him and hit him repeatedly. The two Officer Agents quickly defeat Usopp and Vivi.

After explosively beating down on the still trapped Luffy, Mr. 5 and his partner take Vivi to the giants' duel site, where Mr. 3 is busy further restraining Brogy with his wax. After that, Mr. 3 creates a large, cake-shaped pedestal upon which Vivi, Nami, and Zoro are placed. On top of the pedestal, he creates a rotating platform upon which he places several large candles, which spray wax over his prisoners, slowly turning them into wax figures. Then he explains to Brogy how he manipulated their duel, causing the giant to burst out in anger and break his restraints. However, before he can completely free himself, Mr. 5 knocks the giant out with several explosions and Mr. 3 renews the restraints. Meanwhile, Karoo digs Luffy out from under the rock. The bird, Luffy, and Usopp arrive at the scene just as Zoro attempts to free himself by cutting off his legs.

Mr. 3 decides to fight Luffy, because he suspects that Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine are not strong enough. So he orders them to defeat Usopp and Karoo.
Mr. 3 blocks Luffy's feet with his wax, but the young pirate uses it to destroy a portion of the construction that is killing Zoro, Nami and Vivi. While doing this, the wax around his feet breaks, but the transformation of his friends in statues accelerates. Luffy tries again to destroy the Giant Candle Service Set, but Mr. 3 defends his creation with some Candle Walls. Even Usopp tries to destroy the Giant Candle Service Set with an exploding star, but it is eaten by Mr. 5 without any problems.
Luffy defeats Mr. 3 and so he can free his friends, but he decides not to do it. Miss Goldenweek in fact has used her ability, Colors Trap, to hypnotize him. Luffy is standing on a paint which orders people to betray friends. Vivi uses a trick to make him go outside the symbol, but Miss Goldenweek draws another symbol on his back and Luffy starts to laugh. Usopp and Karoo, running away from their pursuers, hit Luffy and partially delete the symbol. Luffy is now free from the hypnosis, but is immediately victim of another one that blocks him from saving his friends.
Usopp runs away from Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine and comes back to Luffy, but it seems that it is too late for Zoro, Nami, and Vivi.

Once back at the pedestal, Usopp finds Luffy drinking tea with Miss Goldenweek, while their friends are already completely covered in wax and their time is running out. He burns Luffy's shirt, upon which Miss Goldenweek had painted, using a flaming projectile. Luffy, again himself, attempts to destroy the pedestal but is interrupted by the returning Mr. 3, who creates himself a Candle Champion. Usopp is finally struck down by Mr. 5's explosive shots, but is still able to make Karoo run around the pedestal dragging behind it a rope, which Usopp soaks in flammable oil just as Miss Valentine begins to crush him with the intent doing it fatally. Luffy then grabs Mr. 3 at his burning, three-shaped hairdo and uses it to inflame the rope, burning the large wax structure and freeing the others. As they emerge from the flames, Miss Valentine's wicked smile turns to horror when she sees Nami and Vivi freed and is defeated and Zoro makes quick work of Mr. 5. Luffy and Karoo chase after Mr. 3 and his partner and defeat them, respectively. Meanwhile, Sanji stumbles upon a Candle House, which is Mr. 3's hideout. Suddenly, in the house, Sanji receives a call via a Den Den Mushi from Mr. 0.

Once Sanji realizes that he is talking to Mr. 0, he pretends being Mr. 3 and convinces the Warlord that he has eliminated Vivi and her Straw Hats escort. During the conversation, Crocodile's messengers, the otter, and its partner, the vulture, called the Unluckies, arrive to deliver an Eternal Pose, leading to Arabasta, to Mr. 3. They attack Sanji, but he kills them. To justify the noisy interruption, Sanji tells Mr. 0 that one of the Straw Hats was still alive. Crocodile tells him to return to Arabasta and after the conversation, he orders Miss All-Sunday to order Mr. 2 to intercept and eliminate Mr. 3 en route. While Brogy mourns the apparent death of Dorry, creating a rainfall of tears, Dorry suddenly wakes up, much to the shock of everyone. Dorry concludes that, after a hundred years, Brogy's axe had gotten dull and only blacked him out. Using the Eternal Pose to guide them, the crew sets sail. Dorry and Brogy see them off, and, to thank them, they use their worn out weapons to kill the Island Eater as it attempts to feed on the Going Merry.

After killing the Island Eater with Hakoku, the weapons of the two giants break and they try to remember why they were dueling for about 100 years ago until their signal for battle activates. It is revealed they were captains of a crew of giants who battled anyone who opposed them. After they each killed a sea king, a little girl asked which one was bigger. This caused the two to head to Little Garden and compare sizes, and they remained on the island and dueled to decide which was bigger ever since. Back to the Going Merry, Usopp starts talking about how he would like to go to Elbaf someday and Luffy agrees to that, so they dance while singing until they almost fall overboard. Meanwhile Nami starts to feel tired and asks Vivi to watch the Eternal Pose leading to the Arabasta Kingdom for her. Vivi then remember how she must not die if she wants to save her kingdom. Sanji gets out of the kitchen telling Vivi to not push herself too hard, as she has him, he then offers Vivi and Nami some appetizers and asks for their beverage of choice. Luffy, Usopp and Karoo's mouth are watering and Sanji (in a mad way) tell them that theirs are in the kitchen. Zoro is seen in the back of the Merry doing half-ton weights and saying to himself that he is weak, as he could not save everyone of the Tokudai Candle Service Set.
On Sandy Island, an alarm sounds to let Mr. 2 Bon Kurei know that his crew is ready to depart. Back to the Merry, Nami's condition gets worse when she suddenly faints after telling Vivi she was going to lay down. After talking with Vivi, Sanji, Karoo, Usopp and Luffy, Nami gets out of the room pretending her condition to be okay. Nami asks Zoro why he did not watch the Pose and advert her of the change in the course. She predicts that an atypical wind will catch in their way if they keep going straight. Zoro orders the crew to change direction and the pirates save themselves of a cyclone. While it's snowing, Nami is in bed and Vivi is taking care of her as Sanji and Karoo freak out. Zoro sees a man standing in the sea and lets Luffy and Usopp know.

Vivi is watching over Nami with the presence of Sanji and Karoo. Zoro sights a man standing on the water and lets know Luffy and Usopp. The Bliking emerges from the water and the Bliking Pirates board the Going Merry, surrounding Luffy, Zoro, Usopp, and then Sanji when he comes out. Wapol is seen eating a meat stick (but instead of a stick, he uses a sword). He also eats the sword and the crew is surprised. A member of the Bliking Pirates reveals Wapol ate the Baku Baku no Mi so he can eat everything. Luffy gets mad about the fact that Wapol starts eating his ship and starts to fight. The crew backs him up (except for Usopp) and the pirates retreat after Luffy sends his captain flying with a Gomu Gomu no Rocket. As the Bliking Pirates retreat, someone keeps yelling at them to remember them.
A flashback of a Marine ship several days ago is seen. A subordinate informs Captain Smoker about a signal being intercepted. Smoker calls Tashigi and they listen to parts of the conversation between Mr. 0 and Sanji. Smoker and Tashigi discuss and plan to go to Arabasta.
In the Merry, Luffy tries to cheer Nami up, but fails. The crew drops anchor for the night, as they cannot navigate without Nami's instructions during the night. Everybody is asleep in the room where Nami is when she suddenly wakes up and sees almost everyone and smiles, she then lays down again. At the same time, Sanji is on the top of the ship, making guard. In the morning, Usopp starts hammering and Sanji wakes up. Vivi explains that the climate may be cold because an island is nearby. She then proceeds to explain the Island Climatic Types. Sanji spots an island and notifies the crew. When they finally arrive to Drum Island, the people of the town is threatening them. Dalton orders the crew to raise their anchor and leave the island, but a villager shoots to Sanji and misses. Sanji is going to fight back but Vivi interposes and she gets shot.

After Vivi has been shot by a villager on Drum Island, Luffy enrages and prepares to attack the inhabitants. Vivi quickly hugs Luffy and tells him he is not qualified to be a captain because not everything need to be resolved with fighting. Karoo is watching over Nami. Luffy calms down and apologies to the people on the island. Dalton empathizes with the crew and orders them to follow him. Vivi smiles to Luffy because the people understood and Luffy compliments her.
Usopp, Vivi, Sanji (carrying Nami), and Luffy are following Dalton and the inhabitants of the island when they encounter a hiking bear and Usopp tells everyone to play dead. Everyone in there simply passes along the hiking bear after bowing. In the Merry, Zoro comments how his legs are fully healed now. Later, he is seen without a shirt talking about training while Karoo is amazed.
Dalton introduces Bighorn to the visitors and tells to everyone that whoever is not a guard can return to his house. Negikuma Maria asks how things went after she heard there were pirates. Dalton invites the visitors to his house and tells them to use a bed, after that, Nami is seen laying on it while Vivi covers her. Dalton introduces himself as the captain of the security squad of the island. He feels like he has seen Vivi before, but Vivi (nervously) answers by telling him is probably just his imagination. She changes topic by asking him to tell them more about the witch, since Nami's temperature is around 42. Dalton talks to the visitors about the Drum Rockies and how on the top of the tallest mountain is the Drum Castle, where there is no longer a king, but is where Kureha lives. Luffy decides to wake up Nami because he is going to climb the mountain while carrying her. After hearing him, Nami agrees with the idea.
After Sanji decides he is coming too and everything is set, Dalton advice the two to climb the mountain by the "other" side because there are lapahns in the main course. After Luffy and Sanji have departed, Usopp and Vivi watch them leaving and stay outside. Dalton, after seeing their concern, decides to join them. He then talks about the country and how they were known as an advance medical nation because the skilled doctors that inhabited in there. It turns out that the country was attacked by 5 pirates months ago. The captain of the crew called himself "Blackbeard". Some people thought that the country being destroyed was better for its sake, as it contributed to the destruction of the Drum Kingdom and his king, Wapol. Luffy and Sanji are seeing running through the slope of the mountain while they are chatting, but a lapahn keeps attacking them because they keep dodging his attacks. Sanji gets annoyed at this and kicks him, sending him flying.
Sanji and Luffy encounter a big herd of lapahns. Dalton keeps talking about the past situation of the kingdom. The Bliking is seen and Chess is on top while he sights Drum Island and notifies the captain of the Bliking Pirates.

Sanji and Luffy encounter a herd of lapahns. While under attack, Sanji tells Luffy not to attack nor be struck by the animals, as Nami would receive the impact too. Sanji uses Flanchet Shoot on a lapahn.
At a town, Kureha treats a sick boy by doing a little operation and giving him antibiotics. She then charges a fee of food, beverages, trash bags, and 50% of the restaurant's assets. After the boy awakens and gives her his thanks, she decides to make a 1% discount on the fee.
Zoro is outside the ship, training his body to resist the cold while Karoo is watching covered in a blanket. Zoro invites Karoo to join him, but he refuses by shaking his head with his eyes closed. After he opens them again, he does not see Zoro and thinks he must have drowned in the river. Karoo nervously jumps off the ship to save him, while Zoro comes out of the water, commenting how nice the dive was. Back in the wilderness surrounding the Drum Rockies, Sanji and Luffy are hindered by the persistence of the rabbits. On their way to Cocoa Weed, Dalton talks about the former king, and how he was a subordinate of his reign and how Wapol formed the Isshi-20 while restricting the access to doctors for the country. After seeing Vivi's anger just afterwards, Dalton seems to come to the conclusion that Vivi is indeed a princess that he has seen before.
Zoro got lost and while wandering in the woods, he encounters Kureha and Chopper. He asks if she can give him a ride to the next village, but Kureha kicks him in the face for calling her old and leaves. Zoro then decides to train his muscles in order to get warmer. At the coast of Drum Island, the Bliking Pirates arrive. As Kuromarimo holds a citizen captive, they have beaten the watchmen. Wapol is then seen riding on Robson. After Chess informs the status of the Drum Castle, Wapol's crew begins to mobilize, but they then changes course, as the Going Merry is spotted. Usopp and the others are speaking to some people in Cocoa Weed and someone says that the doctor went to Gyasta. A badly injured watchmen informs of the arrival of Wapol to Dalton. Luffy and Sanji find themselves in the middle of an avalanche caused by the lapahns.

Luffy (while carrying Nami) and Sanji are trying to escape from the avalanche. While they are running, Sanji spots a cliff and tells Luffy that they need to get to a high place. Both made it to the cliff but the avalanche reaches them anyway. In different towns surrounding the Drum Rockies, some people prepare for the upcoming arrival of Wapol, as they follow Dalton to Bighorn. Vivi and Usopp are riding a sled trying to get to Gyasta, but they miss the sign. In Bighorn, Wapol is eating buildings while being accompanied by his Bliking Pirates. Kuromarimo informs Wapol that the Straw Hats are searching for a doctor because one of their crew is sick, and that Kureha has been living in the Drum Castle while he was absent. Dalton arrives to Bighorn, jumps, and slashes Wapol's chest. Wapol is quickly operated on by the Isshi-20 and stands up again. After failing to convince Wapol to leave the country, Dalton transforms into a bison-human hybrid. Two persons in Wapol's crew comment and complement each other the Ushi Ushi no Mi, Model: Bison.

Luffy continues his journey to where the mountain is, but he is intercepted by Wapol and his men. He decides to ignore the king but is attacked by his two subordinates. The lapahn he saved before and its group come to the rescue when they try to attack Luffy. They held back Wapol so Luffy could get away. Once he reaches the mountain, Luffy starts climbing it.
Vivi rescues Usopp after both were swallowed by the avalanche. They start walking until they encounter Zoro, who was buried in snow.
In the mountains, all the lapahns have been defeated by Wapol and his two followers.
Zoro, Vivi, and Usopp arrive at Bighorn and they see a commotion. Zoro identifies the soldiers that are preventing the citizens from unearthing Dalton as the pirates that attacked them before. He then attacks one of the soldiers and takes his coat and shoes, noting how warm the coat is. The soldiers try to take down Zoro, but he defeats them all after stealing three of their swords. After that, one villager thanks Zoro and everyone starts digging in the snow to search for Dalton. Usopp decides to help them too.
After immense struggling, Luffy finally arrives at the top on the mountain, where Chopper helps him. Inside the Drum Castle, Kureha and Chopper tend to the weakened guests. Chopper figures out that Nami's sickness must be due to the bite of a kestia, being confirmed by Kureha.
Inside a room, Nami finally awakens and meets Chopper, who is scared of her.

Nami finds herself surprised, as the strange creature she met when she woke up is able to talk. It appears to be worried about her health, but acts scared and clumsy. Dr. Kureha calls him Chopper. She informs Nami, whose fever has gone down, that her sickness was caused by a disease-carrying bug-bite and that it would have killed her in two more days. Because of the severity of her sickness, Kureha tells Nami she has to stay for at least three more days in order to recover.
In the meantime, Chopper looks after Luffy and Sanji in another room. He then remembers their arrival at the top of the mountain. Sanji had several injuries and Luffy was wearing his usual clothes, so he suffered from insufficient heat. As Kureha inspected Nami, Luffy grabbed Kureha's arm, telling her they were his friends.
While Chopper is lost in this memory, Luffy awakens, hungry as usual. Chopper, who sees that Luffy wants to eat him, gets scared again. Sanji also starts to wake up and scares Chopper even more. Both chase after him, stopping for a moment when they see Nami. When they continue chasing Chopper, Nami asks Kureha about him, who tells her that Chopper is "just a reindeer with a blue nose" who ate a devil fruit, the Hito Hito no Mi, enabling him to speak and walk around like a human. In the meantime, Chopper transforms into a bigger and more muscular version of himself in order to break up from his pursuers. Kureha also mentions that she taught Chopper everything about medicine.
At the foot of the mountain, Wapol and his two followers, Chess and Kuromarimo, are still on the search for Luffy to get their revenge.
In the village, which was buried by the avalanche, everyone except Zoro digs the snow in search for Dalton. When they find him, he appears to be dead, as he has no pulse. Luffy and Sanji, who lost track of Chopper, are in the same room with Kureha. Luffy asks her to join their crew, as they still need a doctor on board. After another attempt of hunting down Chopper, both of them are being chased away by Kureha and discover that the castle is filled with snow. Chopper stays with Nami, who asks him to be the crew's doctor. Later on, Kureha tells Nami that convincing him will not be easy. She explains that Chopper had a difficult past because he was born with a blue nose. After he had eaten the devil fruit, he became even more different than the other reindeer. Being hated and feared by both reindeer and humans, he was left all by himself.
When Luffy and Sanji want to close the gate in order to prevent more snow from entering the castle, Chopper transforms into his muscular form again to stop them. Sanji realizes that there is a nest of birds which would fall if the gate was closed. They stop without a fight, but call Chopper a monster because of his abilities and appearance. This causes the reindeer to leave while he is crestfallen. Nevertheless, Luffy likes Chopper's strangeness and wants him on his crew.

Chopper is in a laboratory when Luffy enters the room startling Chopper which causes him to throw the laboratory glassware. Chopper is able to catch every single piece of glassware while the materials are falling. Luffy starts tickling Chopper because he wants to see if Chopper releases the materials. The captain then asks Chopper to become his friend and join his crew, but Chopper refuses and runs away. Sanji enters the room where Nami is resting and brings a meal for Nami with him. When Kureha enters, Sanji calls her madam and she kicks him. Meanwhile, Luffy is chasing after Chopper around Kureha, but when she hears the term nakama, she proceeds to tell a story about the only friend Chopper had, Hiriluk.
Years ago, Hiriluk escaped from Wapol's soldiers during the Doctor Hunt. He coughs and spits blood into his hand. Inside a house, a man is sick and his wife tries to convince him to beg Wapol for the Isshi-20. Hiriluk then appears through an explosion of smoke and tries to treat the citizen, but he refuses. Hiriluk insists and injects him with a drug obtained by a frog's essence, and the man turns green and starts to croak and hop away. The soldiers arrive at the house and Hiriluk escapes through a broken window. On his way, he encounters Kureha and they have a chat until the soldiers spot them. The quack then runs into Chopper, who is badly injured by gun shots. He tries to tend to Chopper's injuries, but the moment he brings out his tranquilizer gun, Chopper hits him. Chopper tries to leave but Hiriluk grabs his attention after he gets naked, trying to prove to him that he will not do him any harm.
Chopper wakes up in Hiriluk's place and starts to feel hungry. He then grabs some bread and in the second bite, he starts to cry. After three days, Chopper talks for the first time. Hiriluk asks why he did not talk before, and Chopper explains he did not want to talk because it is not ordinary for a reindeer to talk, so he might get scared. The quack and Chopper visit the village periodically, always getting kicked out. The reindeer and the doctor get into a fight and after finishing, Chopper says it was his first time fighting with someone. Hiriluk then gifts Chopper a hat and begins to tell a story about a sick man, a miracle, and cherry blossoms.
One day, Hiriluk kicks Chopper out of his place, shooting at him after he is outside. The doctor asks Kureha how many days of life he has left, and she tells him that he has only ten days left. Hiriluk leaves Kureha's place and claims that he will show Chopper that anything is possible.

Luffy is locked down in a room by Chopper, but he steals the key and is able to get out. After Luffy starts chasing Chopper again, he suddenly stops because he smells Wapol is nearby.
Kureha continues telling the story of Chopper's past. Chopper is running through the woods when he suddenly crashes into a tree, he then remembers about when he heard Wapol's soldiers talking about a mushroom that could cure all diseases, requested by the Isshi-20. He proceeds to enter Hiriluk's place in search for the book where the mushroom is depicted. After finding the book, he goes on a journey to find the Amiudake. In his voyage, he encounters a herd of reindeer. One of the reindeer bumps him with his head, after standing up again, Chopper fights back. Later, he finally finds the fungus, but the herd has followed him. Hiriluk is experimenting in his laboratory when the door opens, he is amazed as Chopper enters extremely beaten up. With an eye closed and a broken leg, he delivers the saprophyte to his friend. The quack kneels down to him and hugs him as he cries, telling him he will become a great doctor because of his kind heart. After the quack doctor eats the mushroom soup, he goes to the town and orders Chopper to rest. In the town, soldiers are restricting access to Drum Castle because Wapol ordered to say that all the doctors at the castle where sick. Kureha arrives at Hiriluk's cave where Chopper shows the mushroom he fed. A horrified Kureha beats Chopper and tells him that the mushroom was poison. The reindeer tries to deny her claims but Kureha assures him of her claims and tells him that there is no medicine that can work for all diseases and that is why doctors exist and being kind is not enough to save people. Kureha further explains that Chopper needs medical skills and the training to use them. Realizing what he did, Chopper starts crying hysterically as a saddened Kureha calls him a poor fool.
Hiriluk arrives in town and throws two bombs at the guards. He then orders a guard to take him to the top of the mountain where the castle is. When he reaches the castle, Wapol reveals that he lied about the Isshi-20 being sick, because it was just a trap for him, so he could be executed. Meanwhile, Chopper is running towards the mountain in order to save Hiriluk, but he arrives after the doctor made himself explode. Dalton stops an enraged Chopper, because if he fights, he would only end up dead. Dalton affirms he would carry on with Hiriluk's legacy. Because he rebels in front of Wapol, Dalton is locked up.
Back in the present, Luffy spots Wapol and the others at the top of the mountain. Chopper also lets Kureha know of their arrival.

Chess lets Wapol know of the flag on top of Drum Castle. Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Pistol on Wapol, sending him flying, but he is rescued by his subordinates just when he is about to fall down the mountain. As Luffy goes into the castle to find warm clothes, Sanji protects Kureha from an afro thrown by Kuromarimo. Kuromarimo keeps throwing afros at Sanji, even though they pose no apparent danger, they stick to their foes by static, so when Chess fires an incendiary arrow, the afros start a fire. Luffy borrows Nami's jacket and with the help with Sanji, they throw an attack at Wapol. The former king, displeased, turns himself into Baku Baku Factory and eats Chess and Kuromarimo. He then releases Chessmarimo and shoots the Jolly Roger of Hiriluk. Luffy is able to catch the flag and raises it again with the help of one of the sleeves of Nami's coat. Wapol shoots him again but he does not flinch, leaving the flag waving.

Luffy plants Hiriluk's flag on top of a tower and propels himself towards Wapol and Chessmarimo. He then asks Chopper if he would be a able to handle Chessmarimo by himself and he responds by saying it will be "a piece of cake". Chopper takes a Rumble Ball out and consumes it. He starts fighting with Chessmarimo who got out two bows with an incendiary arrow on each one. He shoots the arrows but Chopper is able to dodge them both. Chessmarimo now gets out four wooden hammers and Chopper explains the drug and how he can use seven forms. He is able to break two hammers with his hooves and he claims that they are strong enough to break through rock. Chessmarimo now gets out four axes and starts attacking the reindeer, which he dodges. Chopper spots the weak point of Chessmarimo with his enhanced brain point and punches him there after dodging an attack. Luffy has been watching Chopper's fight in amazement but everyone loses track of Wapol, who sneaks off and enters Drum Castle.
Meanwhile, the Isshi-20 are able to revive Dalton after regaining the trust of the citizens. Dalton tries to leave the town but he is very weakened. Usopp volunteers to carry him but he can barely stand the weight. Zoro helps him out and they head towards the mountain.

As Luffy races back into Drum Castle to fight Wapol, Chopper tells Kureha that Luffy said he was his friend.
Inside the castle, Nami gets a coat and prepares to escape while Kureha is occupied, wanting to get back on the sea and get Vivi back to Arabasta. She walks out of the room only to catch sight of Wapol, who immediately suspects she is one of the Straw Hats. He chases her along the ledge but gets stuck in a stairway. He uses Baku Baku Factory: Slim-up Wapol to "eat himself" and become slim. However, the moment he tackles Nami to consume her, he gets a kick to the face from Luffy. Nami conks Luffy over the head for damaging her jacket as it cost her 28,800 after bargaining. She tells him that now he has to pay her 100,000 for it.
Wapol reaches the doorway to the castle armory, which only he has a key for. His plan is to eat all the weapons with Baku Baku Factory to become a human weapon, but when he reaches for his key, he finds it is gone and runs up the column stairway with Luffy chasing him. Nami is disappointed as she swiped that key hoping it opened a treasury. Sanji, still debilitated by his re-injured back, crawls back to Nami, realizing she is not injured. Wapol is determined to retake his kingdom and get his revenge. He gets to the top dome of the castle and uncovers his ultimate weapon: the Royal Drum Crown Seven-Shot Bliking Cannon. Luffy arrives and Wapol tries to fire the cannon at him. It makes some noises, but shoots nothing. Wapol tries the trigger lever several times, but it appears the cannon is empty. All that comes out are snowbirds that were nesting inside.
As Chopper waits outside for the battle's final outcome, villagers have assembled at the base of the Drum Ropeway, which is also Dr. Kureha's house. A gondola is transporting some soldiers along with Zoro, Usopp, Vivi, and Dalton. Usopp wonders if Dalton should have come at all since he is still recovering from his injuries and hypothermia, but he is determined to see Wapol defeated and his kingdom destroyed. Back at the castle, Luffy grabs Wapol, saying the battle is over and what he is does not matter, since he is a pirate. Wapol says assaulting him is a crime against the World Government, which Drum Kingdom is a part of. He opens his mouth wide to eat Luffy, but Luffy's rubber fingers stretch around it. Wapol turns his tongue into Bero Cannon to shoot Luffy.
On the Drum Ropeway, Dalton recalls how Wapol captured most of Drum's doctors, and his ministers claimed that government did not need to be good to its people. Dr. Hiriluk changed that opinion for him. He reveals he has dynamite, which he will use to destroy the castle once they get there. Dr. Kureha asks Chopper if he is worried about Luffy. Chopper responds that he does not need to be, since Luffy is a pirate. Sure enough, Luffy is unharmed by Wapol's cannon and uses Gomu Gomu no Bow Gun to fire Wapol upward, getting him stuck in the top of the dome. He sees Hiriluk's flag on another spire of the castle where Luffy replanted it after he tried to shoot it down. Kureha tells Chopper that the end of the Drum Kingdom has finally come.
As Chopper remembers Dr. Hiriluk, Luffy tells Wapol not to mess with the flag if he is not prepared to suffer the consequences. Ignoring pleas from Wapol, including an offer to make him the vice-king, Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Bazooka to launch Wapol far away from the island. The Drum Ropeway gondola arrives at the castle. Luffy pounces Zoro and Usopp from the top of the castle, at first thinking Zoro was one of Wapol's men because he was wearing one of their coats. He then tells Vivi that Nami and Sanji are fine. As Dalton makes his way off the gondola, Luffy says he was "beating up the king" and Dalton realizes Wapol has been defeated. He also adds that "the reindeer" beat up Wapol's minions. Dalton notices Chopper, who is "hiding" behind a tree, and remembers him from the ambush on Dr. Hiriluk. Realizing Chopper has always been fighting for them, he bows to the reindeer, thanking him and vowing that the kingdom will be reborn.
The other villagers arrive and identify Chopper as a monster. Dalton tries to stop their fear as Usopp also cries out that he is a monster. Luffy tells him not to call Chopper a monster as he is their new crewmate. Chopper runs off and Luffy gives chase.

Hiriluk swore that he would somehow make cherry blossoms bloom in Drum Kingdom, a miracle he was certain would save the nation. Kureha was skeptical, but Hiriluk was certain the vision would save his people, just as he was convinced they had saved him.
In the present, Chopper is sitting atop Drum Castle following the end of the Luffy's fight with Wapol, contemplating his time with Doctor, and thinking of his Jolly Roger. He also remembers how Hiriluk told him once that he should go out to sea someday, so he can see how small his problems really are. He is soon found by Luffy, who resumes chasing Chopper to make him part of the crew.
Dr. Kureha rounds up the wounded, including Dalton, Sanji and Nami, and returns them to a room. She deals roughly with Sanji's back, which he reinjured in the battle. She then asks Dalton for the key to the castle's armory. Dalton says that Wapol would have had the key, and it likely went flying along with him. Nami speaks up, eager to negotiate terms of payment. She asks Kureha to waive the medical fees for the crew and discharge her and Sanji immediately. Kureha demands all the treasure and supplies on the Going Merry as payment and that they remain for two more days to fully heal. Nami then reveals the key to the armory, which she swiped from Wapol during their encounter. Kureha takes the key and agrees to waive payment. Although she says they have to remain in the castle, she tells Nami she has a coat in her room and that there are no guards present. She also says Sanji's treatment is complete, permitting her to leave with him if she so chooses.
Chopper finally returns to the roof, thinking he gave Luffy the slip. He thinks it is best not to join the pirates. He then hears Luffy call out to him from below. Zoro and Usopp are convinced that Chopper does not want to go, but Chopper actually does. Chopper finally jumps down and confronts Luffy as Nami and Vivi drag Sanji out from the castle. Chopper tries to explain that he can never be on Luffy's crew because he is a reindeer, blue-nosed, and a monster, even though he really wants to be a pirate. As he invites Luffy to return some time, Luffy cries out for Chopper to shut up and come with him anyway. Chopper is moved to tears, finally having friends who do not care that he is different. The others smile, except Sanji, who is still unconscious, and Zoro, who says that yelling "shut up" is not the way to make friends.
The Straw Hats give Chopper some time to say goodbye to Kureha while Usopp and Luffy get the Drum Ropeway ready. Kureha is in the armory, supervising the soldiers moving the cannons outside. She returns to the room, finding only Dalton is there, who confirms that the others have left. Chopper finds her there, and tells her that he is leaving to become the doctor of the Straw Hat Pirates. She berates him, accusing him of having no gratitude for her training. Chopper says he is every bit a man as a reindeer, but Kureha starts to throw her ornamental arms at him, saying he will only leave if he passes through her. Chopper runs away, with Kureha chasing him through the castle.
As they run, Nami wonders about the commotion growing in the castle. Chopper goes to Walk Point and hitches into Kureha's sleigh. Kureha yells to him as he pulls out of the castle that he is following a crazy fantasy just like Hiriluk. Chopper thinks she is wrong because Hiriluk completed his research before he died. He calls out to the Straw Hats to get into the sleigh, arriving right when Usopp finishes preparing the ropeway. The nearby villagers look into the sky finding an apparent flying reindeer. In reality, Chopper is running down the ropeway with Kureha's sleigh and the Straw Hats towing Luffy behind. Chopper contemplates happier times during his medical training as he runs away. Sanji comes to as they get to ground and run for the shoreline. Kureha watches from the top of the ropeway, and Dalton joins her. She says that her pet simply ran away and that she simply does not like long goodbyes. She tells Dalton to join her by the assembled cannons, so she can give Chopper and the Straw Hats a proper send-off.
Chopper wonders if Hiriluk really completed his research, or if he was just lying to make Chopper feel better at the end of his life. A flashback shows Hiriluk explaining his research to Kureha. The people outside the Drum Castle fire the cannons, leaving the villagers to wonder if the battle is resuming. Chopper stops and watches as something incredible happens. Hiriluk explained that the dust he created would color the snow, turning it into a pink color. Fired above the mountain, it makes the mountain look like a gigantic sakura tree, with the snow looking like falling petals. Kureha still does not understand what Hiriluk was thinking. Upon seeing the fruition of his father figure's work, Chopper bursts into tears. The people in the kingdom are moved as well and Kureha bids Chopper one last farewell.

As they sail away from Drum Island, the Straw Hats gaze with wonder at the sakura effect over the island. Usopp wonders why Chopper looks so distant, sitting on a railing as if lost in thought. The others are not worrying about that. Sanji says his first trip as a "man" is a rite of passage. His thoughts are on Hiriluk and Kureha. It does not take long before the horseplay begins, with Luffy entertaining the others with his "nose chopsticks" trick. Soon, the boys try to get Chopper in on the fun, with Usopp offering him a drink, Sanji inviting him to sing with them, and Luffy offering him the nose chopsticks. He crawls away, still feeling a bit overwhelmed by the attention. Nami gets Chopper's attention, and tells him that his new friends can get a little out of hand occasionally. Chopper starts to warm up to the thought of actually belonging to a group of friends.
Vivi is doting over Karoo, who she found frozen in a river. Zoro jokes by saying that he probably fell. Chopper asks Karoo about it himself, and finds out that he jumped in after Zoro, thinking he was in trouble. After hearing this, Nami hits Zoro. Chopper reveals he can talk to animals at this point. Nami is amazed at this skill in addition to his medical skills. The others ask what she means by medical skills, and find out he was trained by Kureha to be a doctor. Luffy just thought they were getting a cool talking reindeer with seven transformations. Sanji just thought Chopper was emergency food.
At this point, Chopper remembers his medical bag, thinking he left it at Drum Island. Nami then holds up his medical bag, telling him it was inside the sleigh. Chopper does not remember packing it, and realizes that Kureha must have put it in there, anticipating his departure. Nami gets annoyed as the boys resume their revelry. She then finds Chopper trying out the nose chopsticks. As things get crazy, Usopp proposes a toast for their new crewmate. Chopper then says that he has never had this much fun before.
Back on Drum Island, Kureha and Dalton continue to talk. Kureha says the real miracle of Hiriluk's cherry blossoms was sending Chopper out on his own. Dalton begins talking about his plans now that Wapol is gone. He had wanted to leave to atone for his past working along Wapol, but he has since determined that he can atone better by helping to reform the kingdom. Kureha thinks he has what it takes to lead the new country.
Dalton then remembers an incident 10 years before, involving Wapol at a Levely. He remembers being impressed of Vivi's father and the king of Arabasta, Nefertari Cobra. The subject is "Revolutionist" Dragon and Wapol is highly disinterested in the proceedings. King Cobra calls him out for his dismissive attitude and Wapol gets mad. Afterward, Wapol gets his revenge by hitting Cobra's daughter and pretending it was some sort of accident. She got up, smiled, and forgave Wapol for the accident in public. Not long after, Dalton caught sight of her crying with Igaram over the pain. He greatly respected the child for the dignity she carried herself with.
The Isshi-20 who were previously commissioned by Wapol pledge their allegiance to Dalton, begging him to allow them to help the country. Someone runs up and hands Dalton Luffy's wanted poster. He says that a week before, a young man entered Robelle. He noted that, oddly, it did not snow that day. The young man was looking for Blackbeard, but missed him. He then presented the man a wanted poster, saying he was looking for a guy wearing a straw hat. He was asked that, if Luffy showed up, to tell him to look for Ace in Arabasta in the next ten days. The man is then run off when it is found he skipped out on a bill at a nearby restaurant. Recognizing the name on the wanted poster, Kureha mentions that the Will of D. is still alive, revealing that the previous Pirate King's name was actually Gol D. Roger.
The next day, Chopper is sitting by the bow of the Going Merry with Luffy, wondering at the vastness of the ocean. Suddenly, a giant bird flies over, and Luffy calls out to it. The bird starts to fly toward the boat head-on and swoops just above the bow, grabbing Luffy. Chopper freaks out, thinking Luffy has been eaten. Zoro tells Chopper to calm down, saying that he should not worry about Luffy unless he actually calls for help. Sure enough, Luffy grabs the giant bird's beak and uses Gomu Gomu no Propeller to bring it down. While the other guys are mad that he interrupted a card game, he presents the bird as fresh meat for Sanji to deal with. Chopper thinks the adventure was incredible. Nami then comes back, telling the guys they will be at Arabasta soon.
The Straw Hats get Chopper caught up on their current mission: returning Vivi to Arabasta so they can prevent a coup by Crocodile, one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea. Crocodile is abusing his authority as a World Government privateer with his Baroque Works crime syndicate to undermine the kingdom. Vivi describes the group's structure, with the five Officer Agent pairs under Crocodile, the eight Frontier Agent groups below them, and the Billions and Millions subordinates throughout, a total force of around 2,000 men. The crew reasons that, if Crocodile's goal is indeed to seize control of Arabasta, then he must be mustering the full strength of Baroque Works to the area to assist in his coup. Luffy seems eager just to beat up Crocodile.
Mr. 2 Bon Kurei has arrived at Little Garden and is punishing his navigator. They had been tasked with assassinating Mr. 3, but somehow missed him. They head to Arabasta to resume their mission. Meanwhile, back at Baroque Works' headquarters, Crocodile and his Baroque Works assistant, Miss All Sunday, discuss the growing threat of pirate attacks on Arabasta.

Puppu's ship is docked in the coast of Nanohana and his Jolly Roger is waving. His pirates are looting the place while causing a fuss. Pell, Chaka and some men are riding horses, heading to Nanohana. Suddenly, Crocodile appears on top of a building and a woman spots him. He catches the attention of everyone in the place and a lot of people start to call out his name, including Puppu, who recognizes him as one of the Shichibukai. Crocodile says he just came to get the head of Puppu, but the pirates tell him to not underestimate them. Puppu tells him that he sold himself to authority and that he is the World Government's dog. As he gets down from the building, Crocodile says that anyone who does not wish to die should lay on the ground. When Crocodile lands on the ground, Puppu and his crew stab him, however, they are unable withdraw their swords. Crocodile raises his arm, and an upside-down twister starts to form. After the twister dissipates, the pirates are seen dead, covered in sand and dehydrated. The soldiers arrive when Crocodile is already leaving.
In the Alubarna Palace, Chaka is presenting the information of the Puppu pirates' invasion to Nefertari Cobra.
Meanwhile, the Going Merry goes through water vapor caused by an underwater volcano. The Straw Hats fish out and save Mr. 2 from drowning whilst inside the fog. While waiting for his ship, Mr. 2 demonstrates his Mane Mane no Mi devil fruit ability of being able to clone anyone whose face he touches with his right hand. He is able to clone everyone except for Sanji who was in the kitchen searching the storage area for something to cook for his hungry crewmates. Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper are fascinated with his power obtained through the devil fruit he ate. During this demonstration, Vivi notices that Mr. 2 has cloned her father, Cobra. Sometime later, the ship of Mr. 2 arrives to rescue him, and everyone is surprised to learn that he is actually an officer agent of Baroque Works. Since Mr. 2 was able to clone them, they wrap bandages around their arms so they cannot confuse any of them if Mr. 2 decides to disguise as one of them.

As the Straw Hats arrive at Arabasta, Nami expects everyone to be on their best behavior. However, Luffy immediately runs off to get food, separating from his crew. The crew then notices that Mr. 3's ship is docked nearby and Vivi remembers that the ship moves by the means of Mr. 3's Doru Doru no Mi. Vivi says that she and Karoo cannot go onto the streets since most of the citizens would immediately recognize her, so Usopp comes up with an idea to walk through the streets while hiding under a blanket. After walking through the streets being concealed under a blanket, they manage to get to a safe place. Vivi says that she plans on going to Yuba where the rebel's base is but the only way for them to travel is crossing the desert so they decided to stock up on supplies. Sanji and Chopper are the only ones who Mr. 3 has not seen so they go off to buy the supplies.
In the middle of a desert, Luffy finds himself lost but then sees smoke in the distance and thinks that the smoke is coming from a restaurant. Sanji and Chopper are buying the supplies they need but Chopper notices a strange smell which makes him feel uncomfortable and Sanji tells him that it is called perfume. Sanji is distracted by the beautiful women in Arabasta and Chopper cannot bear the aroma, so Sanji tells him that he would take care of the shopping and runs off, yelling for the women. Chopper is exhausted by the heat so he decides to rest in a truck with enough shade to cool down. He decides to take a nap inside until Sanji returns, but after he falls asleep, the truck starts to travel with Chopper inside.
Luffy stands in front of the building that had smoke coming out, but much to his disappointment, he thinks it does not look anything like a restaurant. Luffy sees a pile of bags filled with green powder and comments that it tastes awful after trying a little. He then puts all the bags into the incinerator thinking it must be poison. When the bags are being burnt, Luffy notices the smoke coming out of the chimney turning into a faded green color and then dark clouds start to appear. Rain starts falling from the clouds and a man inside the building realizes the rain and rushes outside. The man starts getting upset since the powder was his great ambition. Luffy apologizes and says that he could simply buy it again but the man says that it is very difficult to get and accidentally reveals that the sale is prohibited, making Luffy realize that the old man is a criminal.
When Chopper wakes up, he is confused and panics because the truck is moving. After that, the truck stops as it arrives to where Koza is. Inside a room, a man coming to Koza has a short talk and Koza says that he and the rebel army will change Arabasta. While Chopper is nervous, Matsuge helps Chopper escape. Chopper asks the camel why he helped him escape and it replies by saying that it makes him look cool. Chopper thinks that the camel is weird but fun. Chopper then goes back to Nanohana by following the aroma of perfume.
Luffy is sitting along with Kamonegi, whose face is swollen. Luffy asks the man what the powder was for and he replies that the green powder is called Dance Powder, also known as Rain-Calling Powder. It goes through a complicated process to artificially make rainfall. He then goes on saying that Arabasta has fought against drought since ancient times, but they were not able to use Dance Powder since it is prohibited by the World Government and that the rebellion is one of the outcomes of the drought.
Sanji and Chopper come back from shopping and they now plan on going to Yuba. Vivi says that this will be a scorching, hot journey and they put all their strengths into the journey. However, they suddenly remember that Luffy is missing.

In Nanohana, a young man previously shown in Drum Kingdom is shown walking the town. A salesman approaches him claiming to have a magical golden apple, but he refuses to buy it. Chopper and Usopp overhear the offer, but Nami and Zoro stop them from being conned after Zoro finds an associate painting them. Zoro notices a man asking if people in the town had seen Luffy, using his wanted poster. He is directed to Spice Bean where the owner knows many of the townspeople.
The present Straw Hats wonder why he is looking for Luffy. Zoro notices the tattoo on the man's back, and knows he is not a bounty hunter. He then sees Tashigi elsewhere in the town, dressing a shopkeeper down for overpricing swords, and hides. Smoker appears, carrying several captured small-time pirates. He is sure Luffy will show up in Arabasta, and has Tashigi take the defeated pirates to the Royal Army. Zoro wonders where Luffy ran off to. He is wandering across the desert, and starts running when he sees a town nearby, hunger driving him to find food.
At the Spice Bean restaurant, patrons are gathered around the young man seen earlier, who is face-first in a plate of food. They believe he has dropped dead mid-eating, and suspect he was bitten by a venomous insect. Suddenly, he wakes up, wipes his face off, and resumes eating. He tells everyone he just fell asleep. Shortly after, he falls asleep again. After waking up, the man asks Yoshimoto if he has seen Luffy.
They are interrupted by Smoker, who noticed the earlier commotion. He identifies the young man as the Second Division Commander of the Whitebeard Pirates, Portgas D. Ace, startling those present. When asked why he is here, Ace says he is looking for his brother. Luffy is running through Nanohana, tracing the scent of food. Smoker says he is not here for Ace, but will go ahead and try to capture him. Suddenly, Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Rocket to launch himself towards Spice Bean. He rams Smoker and Ace through the restaurant's rear wall and the walls of several adjacent buildings, then demands the restaurant owner make him food.
While Luffy is chowing down, Ace and Smoker are on their way back to the restaurant. Ace apologizes to a family for disturbing their meal. Smoker identifies Luffy, though it takes a second for Luffy to remember him from their encounter at Loguetown. He stacks all the remaining food in his mouth, and runs, with Smoker chasing him. The owner notes that neither Ace nor Luffy paid for their meals. Luffy knows he cannot beat Smoker, so he goes looking for his crew. Smoker sees Tashigi and orders her to look for the Straw Hats as he pursues Luffy. As she runs, knowing that Luffy is in town, she thinks it is likely for Zoro to be there as well.
Smoker asks Luffy why he is in Arabasta, to which he responds he came to beat up Crocodile. Smoker asks him how they are connected but Luffy disappears. On the other side of town, Nami, Zoro, Chopper and Usopp catch back up with Sanji, Vivi and Karoo, and tell them the Marine is present. They hear a commotion, and Luffy soon runs to them, with Smoker on his trail. Smoker is intercepted by Ace, who uses Kagero to halt his attack, White Blow.
Luffy recognizes Ace, and is surprised he is a Devil Fruit user now. Ace tells him he ate the Mera Mera no Mi. He then tells Luffy to run, and says he will hold Smoker off. Smoker asks why Ace is helping the Straw Hats and he says a big brother has to help his little brother. Luffy tells his crew that Ace is his brother, to their shock, as they make their getaway.

Ace starts fighting Smoker while the crew is running away to the Going Merry. As they flee, Nami asks Luffy if Ace is really his brother. Luffy confirms this and tells them his name. A bifurcation is in their way and Nami tells everyone to follow her, but Luffy goes the other way, as he was watching his brother fight. The Straw Hats arrive at the ship and carry all the supplies, only to notice that Luffy is missing. Luffy is sitting on the barrel he was carrying in an alley, but he does not know where his crew went. Ace greets him from the top of a house in the alley and then comes down. They start arm wrestling on top of the barrel Luffy was sitting on, but after struggling, the barrel breaks and the water inside it scatters. They both agree that they are equally strong. Ace invites Luffy and his crew to join the Whitebeard Pirates, but Luffy declines.
On Smoker's ship, Mr. 11 is left alone, tied to the mast. Some Billions get on the deck and Mr. 11 asks them to untie him. They explain that as Billions, they are candidates to be promoted to Officer Agents. Mr. 11 asks them to untie him again, but they shoot him. The Billions get off the ship and someone informs them that Fire Fist Ace is in the town. One of them then comments that if they take down Ace, they will surely be promoted to Officer Agents.
Luffy and Ace start searching for Luffy's crew, but as they walk, Billions start to surround them without being noticed. After they are gathered, everyone comes out. Luffy and Ace do not care what they say and keep walking but the Billions start a fight. After Luffy sends the leader flying with Gomu Gomu no Bazooka, one of the Billions tells his comrades not to be scared by that, and everyone keeps chasing them again. Luffy spots his ship and stretches his arms in order to reach for it. He enters the ship ramming towards Sanji and Chopper. Ace reaches the ship in his boat, but then they spot five Billions ships coming towards them. Ace tells Luffy that he can handle them, gets in his boat, and starts propelling it with the help of his flames. He then jumps over a ship and when he lands, he launches a Hiken, destroying the five ships consecutively.
Smoker is talking to Tashigi and asks what Nefertari Vivi was doing with the Straw Hats. Tashigi proposes that perhaps she was a hostage to a major scheme, but Smoker does not think so. He thinks that is unlikely since she was getting along with the group as if she was one of them. He says that something big is going to occur and that he may know where they are heading after Luffy told him he only wanted to beat Crocodile. Usopp, Luffy, and Chopper in the Going Merry are toasting for Ace joining the Straw Hats, but Ace tells them he is not joining them. After that, he explains that he is in search for Blackbeard after he killed one of his crewmates. He also explains that he is heading to Yuba, and Nami tells him that they are going to the same place. Vivi proceeds to explain the route and after that, they toast for having a fun time together.

Citizens are gathered outside the Alubarna Palace to see the king. The guards start to push them, when Nefertari Cobra comes out and tells them that everyone who wants to speak with him can come inside. He cannot solve their problems right now, but he can hear and empathize with them. He then tells the people that he will make the kingdom great again, even if it costs him his life. After that, he goes along with Pell and wonders where and what Vivi is doing.
In the Going Merry, Luffy and Usopp are playing with the wet rice and Sanji hits them and tells them not to play with food. He then says that if they have nothing to do, they can wash the dishes. He says he has to pack lunches and Ace tells him that he can help, but Sanji declines because Ace is a guest. Usopp and Luffy start washing the dishes, but Sanji scolds them because they are using mop water to wash the dishes. Zoro is training while Chopper is feeling the breeze made by his swings. Vivi asks Nami if they can stop, as she has an important task for Karoo. They are outside the ship on a shore and Vivi asks Karoo if he can deliver a letter for his father, even though he has to cross a desert by himself. In that letter, she has written all the schemes of Baroque Works. Karoo accepts and departs rapidly. On the deck of the ship, Ace suggests to Zoro that Crocodile might have a deeper goal than just usurping the throne.
Crocodile lights a cigar and talks to himself about his views on Arabasta, the kingdom of sand, when Miss All Sunday starts walking towards him. She then informs Crocodile that the Billions ships that were at the port town of Nanohana have been all wiped out by a single person, and that they are confirming the information just as they speak. Crocodile tells Miss All Sunday that they have more volunteers to Billions, but if someone tries to get in his way, she should crush them. Miss All Sunday responds that she has already sent the Erimaki Runners to contact the others.
The Straw Hats arrive at the desert and Chopper comments that he bets it will be hot. Nami answers him by telling him that it gets over 50 in the desert. Sanji sees that Nami and Vivi have full clothes now and is upset that they changed their clothes. Vivi tells him that any exposed skin in the desert will result in a sunburn. Sanji then starts rolling in the deck as the other head to exit the ship. Zoro is about to drop the anchor when he sees figures inside the water. Kung-Fu Dugongs get out of the water and Luffy thinks they are seals, but Vivi screams what they are. Usopp tries to fight one of them, but is defeated. Luffy defeats one, but Vivi explains that if you win, they become your pupils. Luffy starts training with them and they want to follow him afterwards, but Vivi tell him that they cannot cross the desert. Chopper comes up with the idea of giving them food so they stay at the shore. When he takes out a piece of meat, all the Kung-Fu Dugongs top Chopper. After that, the Kung-Fu Dugongs are giving them a farewell with a drum and Sanji gets mad because Luffy just lowered the supplies of the Straw Hats. The pirates arrive to Erumalu. Vivi explains how it used to be known and why now it is a ghost town. Dance Powder was used to rain in Alubarna and people called it the King's Miracle. After that, a load of the powder was sent as if the king had ordered it, making it seem like the king was provoking the droughts in surrounding towns. Luffy gets angry and destroys a building with a punch, he then tells Vivi that he is itching to complete their mission. Everyone then heads towards Yuba.

The Straw Hats are on their journey to Yuba. Luffy is tired and thirsty, so the crew let him drink a mouthful of water, but he fills his cheeks to the fullest, so Nami hits him. During the night, in their camp, Vivi starts talking to Ace about Luffy. Ace then tells Vivi that Luffy has always been that way since he was a child, and that he has not changed a bit. He also tells her that he always had charisma and befriends people around him. In the morning, Luffy founds an extremely poisonous scorpion, but mistakes it for a shrimp. When Vivi wakes up and sees Luffy holding the scorpion she yells to leave it alone since a sting is extremely poisonous.
They continue their journey and Luffy proposes to have lunch because he is hungry. Vivi tells him that they are only one tenth of their way and Luffy makes up a proverb for eating. She then tells Luffy they can have a meal when they arrive to the next rocks and Luffy runs ahead. Later, Luffy invites the crew to play rock, paper, Hasami and whoever wins will carry all the equipment. He wins and starts to carry the equipment but then complains, saying that it's unfair, since he won the game. Usopp spots the next rocks and after telling the crew, Luffy runs ahead extremely fast. As he enters the rocks, a bird lands on one of them. He starts to hear noises, so he gets further into the spot, seeing a lot of birds on the ground and moaning. He grabs one of them and says to him that he will get a doctor, rushing out for Chopper. 
The crew returns to the place only to find the birds are missing and their stuff all gone. Vivi explains that Warusagi are bandit birds that take advantage of travelers to steal their belongings. The birds are in front of them, showing off the things they got from them. Luffy starts chasing the birds and Vivi tell him to not do that, but he continues anyway. As he is chasing them, one bird falls and carnivorous plants start to get out of the sand. One of the plants eats Luffy, but he is able to break free. He then sees a camel that is going to be eaten by a plant and saves him after he asks him for help. After that, something big starts moving behind them. Ace apologizes for all the trouble his brother always brings but the crew thinks it is okay. Usopp spots Luffy far away riding a camel rapidly towards them. They wonder what is chasing him until Vivi remembers there are giant lizards that wait for their prey below the sand. Zoro, Sanji and Luffy are able to beat it, but another one appears behind Ace. The lizard is able to trap Ace in his mouth but it then explodes with fire inside it and Ace comes out. The Straw Hats eat the meat of the gigantic lizard and Nami names the camel Matsuge. The camel then is willing to carry her and Vivi through the desert. Everyone then continues their journey.

The Straw Hats are on their journey through the desert and Luffy is really thirsty. Vivi and Nami get ahead of them because they are riding Matsuge. Zoro is pulling Chopper because he cannot stand the heat. Suddenly Luffy starts seeing that a tsunami is coming and Usopp remembers he let him drink a cactus back during their journey. Chopper realizes that it was a psychoactive cactus which causes hallucinations. Luffy tries to hit the others and Chopper injects him with a tranquilizer. Zoro is pulling Luffy and they continue their journey, but they suddenly notice they've lost sight of Nami and Vivi as well as Ace. Luffy wakes up and everyone blames him for getting lost. Usopp starts hearing something, and when they pass the dunes, a pirate ship is sailing through the sand. Usopp then sees that the pirates have captured Nami and Vivi. Luffy starts to run towards the ship and the others follow him. He then stretches his arms and he tangles them around the mast. He rams into the mast, breaking it. The mast then falls over the deck of the ship. A Giant Scorpion comes from below the sand in front of Ace and he tells it not to dare do it. Luffy is on the deck of the ship with the pirates, telling them that he is really thirsty. Nami asks if he did not come to save them, but he says that he only came for water. The captain of the pirates walks towards Luffy and mentions that they are the Barbar Pirates. He also mentions that they have a saying: aside from friends, everything alive in the desert can be eaten. Luffy has a chitchat with Barbarossa and he later apologizes for treating Luffy's friends that way. He says that they were really hungry and wanted to eat something. Then one pirate says that they cannot leave because the main mast is broken and without it, they will not have enough thrust to go through the sand. Luffy decides to collect wood for the pirates in order to fix the ship, since he is the one responsible for breaking it. They give them a sand sled and let Rasa and Zaba accompany them because they know where the Meriyasu Oasis is.
Ace is walking and the scorpion is behind him, defeated with smoke coming out of it. He then says that he warned him.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Vivi are in trouble after Rasa pushed their sled into quicksand.
Sanji and Zoro are working inside the ship of Barbarossa and Nami is talking with him. The Sandora Desert Bandits approach the ship's location to fight the pirates. A Sandora Giant Bug is carrying a large ball of dung over a dune, only to release it towards the Barbar Pirate's ship. Barbarossa tries to stop the dung after it has gained momentum, but he is quickly overcome, so Zoro cuts it into pieces and Sanji breaks the debris coming towards the ship. A Giant Gecko is messing with Ace's course, but after he sees the roasted scorpion he starts to cry. Meanwhile, Luffy is able to reach for the sled that Rasa is piloting in order to pull their sled back on course. Luffy and the others arrive at the oasis, only to find everything is buried. Here, they learn about Rasa's backstory. During dusk, Ace is seen riding the gecko and screams after Luffy.

Luffy and his crew say their parting goodbyes to the sand pirates. As they're leaving, Zoro questions the whereabouts of Luffy's brother, Ace. Luffy claims that Ace would eventually show up out of nowhere, and the crew begins their journey to the city of Ido.
Meanwhile, in Ido, a group of Camu's rebels are having a meal with the mayor, discussing the strength of their troops and telling how the rebel and royal army would soon have to clash. Suddenly, one of Camu's men rushes up to him exclaiming about the arrival of sand pirates. Camu's decision was to run and hide, to the others' surprise. As Camu begins to walk out, the lizard that Ace was accompanying shows up and behind them Ace is sitting at the table eating their food. The men call Ace a "food thief", and Ace goes on to beat the living crap out of them. Camu watches, petrified, and bows down to Ace in fear and begs for his help against the sand pirates. Ace agrees to do so, but on a condition.
While riding on the lizard to defeat the sand pirates, he runs into Luffy and his crew, saying how the rebels believed that they were sand pirates. Ace explains to Vivi how there are "rebels" in town, but are actually mere hoodlums. Vivi gets upset, and says how there is nothing wrong with villagers wanting to protect their village, even if it means posing as rebels. She brings up the idea of testing them to see if they are strong enough to carry the burden of protecting the village on their shoulders.
Camu and his men are seen hiding in barrels, questioning whether Ace had beat the sand pirates or not. As Camu begins to leave once again, all the villagers show up outside his door cheering him on for the oncoming fight against the sand pirates. The mayor walks up to them and wishes them the best against the sea pirates. Camu is confused, as he was sure they were sand pirates. The mayor then goes to show him the wanted poster of 30,000,000 on Luffy's head, and he becomes frightened. They begin to secretly devise a plan to outrun the pirates once they leave town, but as they open the gates, the Straw Hat Pirates surround them menacingly. The rebels stand their ground as the Straw Hats begin to attack. Camu and his men decide to stop being cowards and stand thier ground.  Vivi is satisfied with this and signals for the Straw hats to retreat. By the end of the episode, Luffy and his crew deem the "rebels" worthy of staying to protect the town.

The Straw Hats, Vivi and Ace are still traveling together on their way to the Yuba Oasis.  Vivi intends to meet with the rebel army there. Luffy and Usopp, thirsty and tired, began struggling with each to get a drink of water from the skin bottle. Sanji decides to save his for Nami and Vivi, but Luffy tries to take his water bottle away from him. At that point, Luffy, Usopp and Sanji begin fighting over the water in the skin bottle. Nami asks Vivi to tell her more about the Rebel army and Vivi went to tell her of the events that occurred 11 years back.
A young Koza is seen before King Cobra complaining that his village is dried up and the king is doing nothing to help. The King in turn, told him that the weather is commanded by God and that he has no power over nature. Just then Toto arrived beseeching the king that he would accept the punishment for his rude son. Cobra promised to look after the village affected by the drought and told Toto to remain in Alubarna. Koza, still upset at the king, said the king does not understand the feelings of the people and fled his sight. Cobra then told Toto that Koza is a good child because he cares for the people and their feelings. Vivi, standing by the hallway saw Koza running down crying and called him a crybaby. Igaram is seen telling Cobra that the country's budget will not suffice to help the whole village affected by the draught and Cobra, comically hitting him on the head, told him to take money out of their personal wallets.
Just then, Vivi appeared before her father and told him she got into a fight but lost. Igaram was angry that Koza hit the princess and Toto was pleading to the king for him to commit suicide as a way of apology. Cobra told them to stay out of it for it is simply a children's quarrel. In the village, Vivi challenged Koza for the position of leader of the Suna Suna Clan. After their fight, Koza announced Vivi as the new assistant leader of the Suna-Suna Clan. Igaram and Cobra were watching in hiding and Cobra commented that Vivi has made friends, which is important for the next ruler to have. Vivi, after joining the clan became close to Koza's family. Vivi was about to be kidnapped when the Suna Suna Clan launched an offensive against the kidnappers to protect Vivi. Meanwhile, in the desert, a scorpion came out from the ground and was about to attack Luffy, making Zoro, Sanji, Chopper and Luffy all together beat the scorpion.
The Suna Suna Clan continued to fight the kidnappers, when a third one appeared grabbing Vivi. Vivi bit him and ran towards the ruins. Igaram and Cobra appeared after the children have been defeated and inquired on what had happened. They were told, and they went after Vivi. At the ruins, the kidnappers were looking for Vivi and one found her. Koza came from behind and hit him with a club. The kidnapper and Koza went at each other but Koza defeated him by hitting him in the head but got cut by the kidnapper's sword near his left eye. Just then the other two arrived and when they were about to fight Koza, when Igaram and Cobra knocked them out. Pell and Chaka also defeated the rest of the kidnapping ring crew.
Vivi, upon Koza's recovery cried and told him not to give his life to save hers, after remembering their resolve to protect her. Cobra thanked Koza for his noble deed, although Koza said he did it for a friend. Cobra asked if Koza loved the country and he replied "yes" saying it is the country of his birth and Cobra commented that he also loves the country. Koza told Vivi about Toto accepting the position of a representative to build the Oasis of Yuba into a town, since it is the hub of Western Arabasta. Koza told her he was leaving with his father and would help build Yuba with his own two hands. Koza, upon leaving told Vivi to become a great princess.
In the present, Nami comments that Vivi's friend - Koza - seems like a good person and asked what that had to do with the Rebels. Vivi then revealed to Nami that Koza was the leader of the Rebel army.

The episode starts off showing the Arabasta desert. A man named Scorpion is shown sleeping on top of a large rock outlook with a bird that looks like an ostrich wearing a helmet called Popo. Food is scattered across the ground. Popo walks over to Scorpion and wakes him up. When Scorpion asks what's the matter. Popo points to rising smoke in the distance. Scorpion grabs his spyglass and points it to where the smoke is rising up. He sees the Straw Hats and Ace. Once Scorpion realizes who it is sweat covers his face and he gets excited. He has been waiting for the day that he finally tracked down Portgas D. Ace.
The Straw Hats and Ace are eating, Luffy and Usopp are asking for seconds. Sanji kicks them telling them to stop being greedy. After hearing this Luffy steals some from Zoro's plate. They all start fighting.
Vivi starts talking to Nami and asks why every meal turns into a fight. Nami responds by telling her to ignore it. They both admire Portgas D. Ace for eating quietly and cleaning his fork and plate. "He sure is different," remarks Nami, comparing Ace to Luffy. Nami starts talking about how much Ace is worth, and that his bounty makes bounty hunters drool.
Switching back to Scorpion, he is loading a rocket launcher and starts aiming at Ace. He says, "With this one shot, I'll settle everything." He lights the fuse on his rocket. Popo sneezes on the fuse putting it out without Scorpion noticing.
Nami starts getting ready to set off traveling to Yuba. She tells the rest of the Straw Hats to start getting ready by cleaning up. Two shadows appear behind some rocks without anyone noticing. Then all of a sudden a piece of meat starts to rise with no one touching it. This catches Luffy's attention. It is then revealed that it is rising due to a fishing rod pulling it up. Luffy still not noticing this, thinks that the meat is floating and talking. Once the two shadows pull the meat in, they start running away. Luffy chases after it.
It is then revealed as two boys trying to get food because they are starving. They had not eaten in ten days. As they start eating it, Ace asks if they came from the badland. They are shocked for a second that they were caught. They then get aggressive and scared of Ace, asking who are you, and saying that they won't give back the food. The eldest brother pulls out a revolver and says, "One move and you're a dead man." Ace does not appear to be scared. Instead he smirks and calmly states, "Dangerous things like that won't frighten me." The brother fires the weapon and Ace easily deflects it.
The Straw Hats come up behind Ace asking who they are. The eldest brother drops the revolver and says, "We have something to ask of you. We need you to find and capture a man." The two boys pull out a picture of Scorpion.
Returning to Scorpion, he is still waiting for the fuse to go off, even though it is no longer burning. He asks if Popo is ready, but he then realizes that Popo ate the fuse. Scorpion screams at Popo which catches Luffy's attention, who is right under where they are located. Luffy hops up and starts talking to them. In the commotion Scorpion looses track of Ace.
The two boys tell Ace they have traveled all across the badlands looking for him. Usopp asks who is the person they are looking for. Nami tells Usopp it is a bounty hunter called Scorpion. Ace tells them that he has business with Scorpion because the person who defeated Blackbeard in Yuba was called Scorpion.
Luffy finds out the person he is talking to is the bounty hunter Scorpion. He tells Luffy that he is going to find and kill Fire Fist Ace. Luffy tells him that is funny and Scorpion responds by telling him "Don't mock me" in a playful tone.
The two boys realize who Ace is. They ask Ace if he is the real Ace, but he is too busy scanning the desert for something. Usopp asks if there is something wrong. He responds by saying, "Two men and a bird."
Scorpion rides up with Luffy and says, "I am Scorpion and I am going to defeat you." He is very nervous and it is obvious he is faking everything. They set up a 'true' battle between him and Ace.
Scorpion shoots a net at Ace, but he knocks it away back onto Scorpion. Then Ace quickly punches and defeats him. Ace tells Scorpion that he could not have defeated Blackbeard because he is too weak.
The eldest boy yells, "That is enough, Dad!" Everyone is surprised that Scorpion is their father. It turns out that they were originally farmers. Once the drought set in their farm died. The father told his children that he would become a bounty hunter, take down Ace, and return rich.
His children now tell him that he is no match for Fire Fist Ace. He chuckles and nervously says, "What are you saying? Your dad is now the world's greatest bounty hunter." Scorpion gives a speech to his children, and returns to the fight. His children beg him not too. Just as he is about to launch the rocket his children tell him to stop. He drops the rocket, it goes off and hits a rock. The rock explodes sending smaller rocks towards them. Ace then saves all three of them from a certain death. They then return home to the badlands. At the end of all of this, Ace leaves. Before he leaves he gives Luffy a piece of paper and tells Luffy that next time they see each other it will be at the top of Pirates Summit.

This episode starts off with Luffy hallucinating because of dehydration. The crew is very confused on what he is doing, as he runs around the desert screaming random names. He starts throwing punches at people that are not there. Nami tells Zoro to get Chopper, but they see Chopper has collapsed because of the heat. Since Chopper has collapsed and cannot help Luffy, Nami tells Zoro to take care of Luffy. When Zoro starts walking towards Luffy to get him, Nami and the rest of the crew start off again, as they want to get to Yuba as fast as possible. When they start off Vivi thinks to herself that Luffy, Zoro, and Chopper probably will not be all right, foreshadowing that they will not be.
Zoro approaches Luffy, dragging Chopper, and tells Luffy to calm down. Luffy who is throwing punches at his hallucinogenic enemies, mistakes Zoro as Crocodile. He punches Zoro very hard, invoking Zoro to start fighting back. Zoro does not want to hurt Luffy, so he puts his swords away. He starts the beginning of a fist fight. The two continue throwing punches until they both punch each other very hard. This knocks both of them out. They collapse unconscious into the desert sand.
Chopper then wakes up confused on what happened, as he was asleep when they were fighting. Chopper runs over to where Zoro and Luffy are and wakes Zoro up using a pungent smelling medicine. Zoro asks Chopper where the group is and Chopper replies telling him they were gone when he arose. At first Zoro says they will just follow the group's footprints, but then he realizes the desert wind will have eroded them away.
The scene then changes to Nami and Vivi in an ancient ruin. Vivi remarks how Kingdoms change and fade away, that civilizations grow and die on this land, but the people stay the same. It is clear that she is afraid that her father's kingdom will fall to Baroque Works and become a fading kingdom. Nami tells her not to worry, that Luffy will take them down along with Crocodile. Vivi agrees, but she is still worried.
Back to Luffy, Chopper, and Zoro. After a while Luffy wakes up and is confused on why they are alone. Zoro punches him, telling Luffy that it is his fault and now they are lost. They set off in a random direction. Once Luffy realizes what happened he starts complaining. Zoro and Chopper walk on ahead.
They start talking about why each one joined the crew. Chopper remarks that the crew seems so wild compared to him. Zoro then starts talking about how everyone has different goals, and their goals to be the best in what they do unite them.
While they are still talking Luffy spots some shade and uses his rubber arm rockets to propel the three of them to the cave. Zoro sits on a rock that turns into a sink hole. He falls into a cavern. He spots the Poneglyph, and wonders what it is. Luffy and Chopper then both fall into the cavern and join Zoro.
When their eyes have adjusted, they realize they are in a dome built by humans. Zoro, Luffy, and Chopper decide to leave and catch up with the rest of the group. Luffy swings his arm trying to get up and out of the underground dome, but misses making it slowly collapse. He finally succeeds and zooms out of the dome. They are sent flying into the sky. When they land Chopper smells that the wind has changed. He catches wind of Nami's perfume. They head off in that direction to meet up with the group.
The perspective changes back to the rest of the group. Nami and Vivi start talking about Luffy and how the crew came about. Nami says that in the pirate crew each person has an ability. Zoro has his swords, Nami is a navigator, Usopp is the liar, Luffy is the fighter, Chopper is the doctor, and Sanji is the cook. Each one of them plays a crucial role in the fabric of the Straw Hat Pirates and without each and every one of them doing their role, the crew would fall apart. This is how they can trust each other, through the fact that they know each one of them has some unique trait that allows them to be able to get through anything. Vivi is impressed with her answer and overall likes that theory. She turns her head and sees Luffy, Chopper, and Zoro coming over the horizon. She now knows Nami is right, that she does not have to worry because each crew member is powerful and loyal.

Episode 103 starts off with Luffy looking at the piece of paper Ace gave him. He ponders what it is and why Ace gave it to him. The rest of the crew also look at it and also conclude that it is just a piece of paper. Since it is so important to Luffy, Nami sews it on the inside of his hat. Vivi is looking onward and tells the rest of the crew that Yuba is only past the distant rock.
Meanwhile in Crocodile's lair, he and Miss All Sunday are discussing their plan. Miss All Sunday says that all preparations are in place and they can carry out the plan in two days. Crocodile is pleased and tells her the other agents are coming from Spider Cafe to meet them.
In Spider Cafe the agents start gathering. The only one left is Mr. 1. The other agents start getting impatient and just want to leave. Mr. 2 and his men put on a dance show, but all of a sudden Mr. 1 burst through the wall knocking over one of Mr. 2's men. Mr. 2 and Mr. 1 start fighting because Mr. 2 is angry that he knocked over one of his men like that. Miss Doublefinger quickly puts an end to it. She says that they received word to go to Rainbase and meet the boss. They all go into a carriage that starts off.
Luffy and his group finally make it to Yuba. It is being ravaged by a sandstorm. After it stops, they can see that it has been abandoned. Yuba is not the oasis they were expecting. The only one left is the founder of Yuba, and they find out the rebel army has relocated to Katorea. When Luffy calls Vivi over the old man recognizes her. He runs over to her and she realizes he is Toto from her youth. His son is the rebel army's leader. It is clear that he is very loyal to the crown, and feels terrible that his son is leading the revolution.
There is then a flashback of Vivi and his son playing together when they are younger. Toto is tasked with starting a new city called Yuba and so the son and Vivi part ways. Vivi and Toto have a strong connection.
Since Vivi and Toto know each other, the crew decides to stay in Yuba for the night. Toto shares stories of how great Yuba was before the three years of drought. They all fall asleep, but not before deciding they will set off in the morning.

In Yuba, Luffy learns that Toto was entrusted by Cobra to watch over the land and figures out a way to stop the sandstorm. At Rain Dinners, the officer agents learn that their leader, Mr. 0, is actually Crocodile and learn that they are going to overthrow the country during the war. Mr. 3 appears and reveals that the Straw Hats are alive. As a punishment for his failure to kill them Crocodile dries him up and drops him into a Bananawani pit. Crocodile has Ms. All-Sunday tell the rebel army to kill everyone on sight. Meanwhile, the Straw Hats depart to Katorea, but Luffy stops. When Luffy tells Vivi of his plan to defeat Crocodile and denounces Vivi's plan to stop the rebellion as naive, the two get into a struggle. During this, Vivi reveals that she will only risk her own life. Luffy, however, says that she should be putting their lives on the line together and to trust her friends and Vivi is moved to tears by his statement.

Vivi, still in tears, declares that their plans of stopping the rebellion have changed to finding Crocodile. Nami states that this seems to be the quickest way of stopping the fighting from happening. Vivi takes out a map of Arabasta and shows them Alubarna's location, the capital of Arabasta where her father is, and Katorea, where the rebel army is camped. Sanji supposes that they have to get to Crocodile before the rebels invade Alubarna. She also shows them where Crocodile lives which is Rainbase and tells them it is a day's journey from where they are.
On their way to Rainbase, Usopp asks for a sip of Luffy's water given to him by Toto, but Luffy refuses to give Usopp any since the old man had to dig all night to fill the container, and that they can't just drink it like it is regular water. 
Meanwhile, in the rebel base in Katorea, a boy is begging the leader of the rebel army, Koza, to join the fight. Koza dissuades the boy, but he remains determined stating he wants to fight. Koza then says that that is the reason he can't let the boy join them because none of the rebels want to fight and that the only reason they do is because they have to. Koza tells the boy to leave and then starts to discuss their plans to invade Alubarna with his men. Once they have gathered all the weapons they need from all the rebel towns, they will then begin their all-out attack on the capital.
In Alubarna, Chaka suggests to Cobra that they must take action towards the rebel army before they attack the capital. Cobra angrily refuses to attack the rebels that in doing so would be the true destruction of their kingdom. He recalls the dance powder incident and surmises that since that incident, someone has been trying to tear apart their country and that before they should act, they must determine who is really behind all of it. Chaka argues that whoever is behind it has not made himself known and that they cannot sit back and wait for whoever it is to divide them, to which the king remained adamant in his refusal to act.
While Chaka and Pell discuss Vivi and Igaram's efforts to determine the mastermind of the turmoil within their kingdom, a palace guard informs them that Karoo has returned. They rush to see Karoo and find Cobra reading the letter Vivi wrote informing him that Crocodile is without a doubt the person who is trying to destroy Arabasta Kingdom. She tells them that Igaram died protecting her. Furthermore, she says that she has teamed up with an amazing group of people who will help her save Arabasta.
Having learned of the identity of the mastermind behind their country's troubles, Cobra orders his forces to march onto Rainbase. Chaka and Pell discourage this plan saying that they will have to plan the attack and that Crocodile has the hearts of some of the citizens, even more than the King. Moreover, they are worried that the absence of the Royal Army from the capital will make it vulnerable to the rebel army's occupation. Cobra replies that he doesn't care if the rebels destroy the palace since it is only a building. It doesn't matter that the Royal Army falls in the end, as long as Crocodile is defeated, the country can still be reborn, but if they battle the rebel army, Crocodile will win. They start preparations to take down Crocodile, with Chaka readying the war council and Pell scouting ahead to conduct reconnaissance. 
Meanwhile, in Rainbase, Luffy's group have finally arrived. They plan to lay low since they are under the assumption that Crocodile already knows they are on the island. However, Luffy and Usopp loudly enter a bar where Smoker and Tashigi are staying, and inadvertently sit right beside them. At first, they go unnoticed, but eventually, the two parties see each other, so Luffy and Usopp run away and are chased by the Marines. They lead the Marines to the other crew members (minus Chopper), so their plan of laying low is no longer feasible. The group decides to split up and just meet at Rain Dinners, the casino where Crocodile is. 
Chopper, after going to the restroom, returns to where everyone was but sees that they are gone. He determines that everyone split up when he finds everyone's scent coming from different directions. Luffy is chased by Smoker but he manages to lose him temporarily. Vivi and Zoro are chased down by Marines but Zoro lets Vivi go ahead without him. However, he is faced by Tashigi so he runs aways, unable to handle a confrontation with her since she looks so much like his childhood friend. Usopp, Nami, and Sanji are also pursued by marines but Sanji asks Usopp to protect Nami so he can deal with the Marines. Nami and Usopp arrive at Rain Dinners and find Zoro there. Luffy arrives shortly after, again being chased by Smoker. The four of them decide to enter the casino without the others in order to escape Smoker.
Inside, Crocodile and Miss All Sunday find out of the Straw Hat's arrival and plan to give them a "warm welcome."

Luffy, Zoro, Nami, and Usopp run towards the Rain Dinners casino. They know that without Vivi, they do not know what Crocodile looks like and realize that Vivi is not there with them. They start shouting for both Vivi and Crocodile but realize this is useless. Smoker catches up to them and chases them inside the casino, but the casino security personnel stop him saying that government employees are not allowed in the casino. He persists in chasing after the group and the ruckus causes casino security to try and also stop Luffy's group.  They are unable to contain the commotion so the manager, Miss All Sunday, tells the personnel to send them to the VIP room.
The group is led to the VIP room and Smoker continues to give chase. Inside, the hallway is split into two, with a sign saying that VIPs should go to the left and pirates should go to the right. The group decides to go to the right, being that they are pirates. This leads to a dead-end and a trapdoor. The trapdoor opens and the group, along with Smoker, fall down said trapdoor. 
Meanwhile, Chopper is still looking for his crewmates and sees Tashigi. He realizes that the Marines are after the Straw Hats and tries to stop her. However, Tashigi bumps into him and falls on top of him, her glasses also falling onto Chopper's eyes. Chopper becomes disoriented and dizzy due to the prescription of Tashigi's eyeglasses. Tashigi, unable to see without them, does not recognize Chopper who has fallen down. Sanji sees this and hides. Chopper gives back her glasses, but she still does not recognize him. Sanji and Chopper are reunited.
In the casino, Luffy's group and Smoker are inside a prison cell. Luffy notices that something is wrong as he is feeling weak all of a sudden. Smoker then hits Luffy with his jitte causing Luffy to fall and feel helpless like he's falling into the sea. Smoker explains that the tip of his weapon is made of sea prism stone which is a rare mineral that gives off a mystical energy with the same wavelength as the ocean or basically a solid form of the sea. It affects Devil Fruit users the same way as if they have fallen into the ocean. As Zoro is about to attack Smoker for attacking Luffy, Crocodile interrupts and tells them to try to get along since they are about to die together anyway.
Crocodile tells Smoker that he knows he is there on his own without orders from the government, since he knows the government trusts him completely, being a Warlord of the Sea. Crocodile then proceeds to tell them that he will deal with them after their "guest of honor" arrives.
Meanwhile, outside Vivi is fending off Baroque Works Billions, and she is knocked down and about to be captured. Shortly after, bullets rain down on the Billions from the sky. Pell then swoops down and carries Vivi to safety. Pell updates Vivi on her father's plans and then eliminates the Billions who were after her. Just as she is about to leave and find the Straw Hats, Miss All Sunday appears saying that she has been "invited" to a gathering. Vivi attacks her but is overpowered and falls down. Pell tries to take her down, but Miss All Sunday manages to use her Hana Hana no Mi Devil Fruit powers and overpowers him, too. Miss All Sunday then takes Vivi to the casino.
Back inside the prison cell, Luffy's group and Crocodile wait for Vivi and Miss All Sunday to arrive. Vivi arrives and tries to attack Crocodile, but her attack is ineffective as Crocodile has turned into sand. Crocodile reveals that he has eaten the Suna Suna no Mi fruit which turns him into a Sand Human. Crocodile then has Vivi sit down and states that the "party" is about to begin. Miss All Sunday then agrees and tells everyone that it is already noon and that it is time for Operation Utopia. Asked what this was, Crocodile then says that Operation Utopia means the demise of the Kingdom of Arabasta. 

Baroque Works' plan to take over Arabasta is set in motion. Crocodile begins explaining to Vivi what Operation Utopia is. The king is kidnapped and replaced by Bentham who announces that he must eliminate the town of Nanohana and all of its inhabitants to prevent word of the Dance Powder incident that occurred earlier in the same city from reaching the Marines. But as soon as Bentham gives the order to destroy Nanohana, Koza arrives to confront him. After a brief exchange, Koza attempts to attack Bentham, but is stopped by two royal guards and then shot, allowing the royal army to attack Nanohana. Koza, badly wounded, wonders why the rebel army fought. In the midst of the fight Mr. 1 and Miss Doublefinger crash into Nanohana on a giant pirate ship they had commandeered by killing everyone on board. The ship then causes massive collateral damage, forcing the city's inhabitants to flee. Bentham then announces that his part of the mission is complete and tells the royal army to burn the city.
While fleeing, it is shown that the royal soldiers in Nanohana were actually Billions under Bentham's command. Meanwhile, the citizens of Nanohana admit they cannot put out the fire. Koza, still badly wounded, is dragged out of the fire by two rebel army soldiers. The same two rebel soldiers find a boy, who after discovering that someone had impersonated Cobra, was attacked by Mr. 1 and Miss Doublefinger. The boy tries to tell them that the king wasn't responsible but is too wounded to speak and the rebels are framed for the crime. Koza orders the rebel army to move.
When one of the rebel soldiers says they don't have enough weapons, another soldier says that the ship that just crashed was an armory ship. Koza proclaims that is like "divine guidance". Back at the palace, Chaka is astonished at the Nanohana incident, and is told by a royal soldier that all of Arabasta is headed towards the palace. Back at Rainbase Crocodile has just finished explaining his plan to Vivi, who is shocked into silence. Eventually, Vivi regains some spirit and attempts to escape with her hands still tied. 

Chaka orders the royal guards to attack the rebels in order to protect Arabasta. Meanwhile, Koza and the rebels head to Alubarna. The Straw Hat Pirates are still locked up in Crocodile's cell. Crocodile taunts the tied up Vivi, with a key to get the locked up pirates. Vivi is able to get free from the ropes but the key that Crocodile had "accidentally" slips from his hands and goes through his trap door where one of his many banana crocodiles eats it.
"Mr. 0" gives everyone in his VIP room one hour to live due to water filling the room. Before he is able to leave with Miss All-Sunday, Crocodile gets a call on his responder snail from "Mr. Prince" who the Straw Hats recognize as Sanji. 
Vivi leaves to get Sanji and Chopper to help save the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates. The bridge of the casino collapses before Princess Vivi can leave, trapping her inside the casino. But Sanji says that he didn't do it to keep her trapped inside, but rather to keep the Baroque Works out of the casino.

Chopper distracts Crocodile while Sanji frees the rest of the crew. Smoker reveals to the Straw Hats that Miss All Sunday is a wanted woman, and that the World Government has been chasing after her for 20 years, along with a bounty of 70 million - almost as much as Crocodile's. Sanji beats up a few Banana Gators to get the key to the cell. But instead of getting the key, the Straw Hats see Mr. 3 pop out of an aligator's stomach. Mr. 3 retrieves the key and then throws it in the middle of three Banana Gators. While Crocodile and Miss All Sunday are speaking Crocodile reveals that he had the real key to the cell all along. Usopp has an idea where they could use Mr. 3's Devil Fruit powers to get them out. By the time Crocodile and Miss All Sunday get back to the room, they see that the Straw Hats and Smoker have left the cell. After Luffy tells Zoro to save Smoker, he lets the Straw Hats off, while the rest of the Marines chase after them. The crew runs away while Luffy says that they are not going to stop running until they reach Alubarna.

Starting from the previous episode, the Straw Hat Pirates are seen escaping to the East from pursuing Marines. However, Smoker calls them off, claiming that he is tired, and that they won't catch them. Smoker then tells a subordinate to order for backup from surrounding Marine warships straight to Arabasta. 
Chopper and Matsuge seen riding a huge crab-creature called a 'Moving Crab' towards the scent of Nami's perfume. Apparently, Matsuge is friends with several animals, including the Moving Crab.
However, as the Straw Hats, Vivi, Matsuge and the Moving Crab head towards Alubarna, Crocodile's hook latches onto Vivi, pulling her away. Luffy, in a split second decision grabs onto Vivi to switch places with her and follows the hook back to Crocodile. Before engaging with the man though, Luffy orders the others to head straight to Alubarna without him, and to get Vivi home.
Finally, with one last promise to meet in Alubarna, Luffy engages Crocodile and Miss All Sunday. Luffy then addresses how kind Vivi is in her selflessness and entirety to protect her entire kingdom and solve the conflict without bloodshed. Crocodile says how hers is a foolish belief and asks if Luffy agrees with him. He does. However, Luffy claims that as long as Crocodile lives Vivi will suffer and as her friend, Luffy would stop him here. Crocodile claims that this makes Luffy an even bigger fool for becoming intimate with others and as such he will die for it.
After a taunt towards Crocodile, Miss All Sunday laughs and Crocodile asks if he should kill her too, calling her by her real name- Nico Robin. Robin then tells him to do as he wishes even though he has broken his promise to never call her by that name. She then leaves, claiming to go to Alubarna. His patience thinning, Crocodile places down a sand timer with a limit of three minutes saying that he only has that much time to 'play' with Luffy. Luffy claims that it is fine with him and starts his offense with his Gomu Gomu no Pistol attack. Crocodile evades by predictably evaporating into sand. Crocodile lunges forward with his hook, when Luffy narrowly ducks the attack.
Luffy's next attack to Crocodile's back, Gomu Gomu no Stamp is also thwarted as Crocodile's Suna Suna no Mi's abilities which seem to be impervious to physical attack. This is shown again by a futile Gomu Gomu no Gatling Gun, each attack passing through him, a Gomu Gomu no Bazooka blasting sand everywhere, and an axe kick that does no damage.
However, as Crocodile continues to try and explain to Luffy why he will never win, Luffy cuts him off by clocking his face with a haymaker that although doing no physical damage, shuts Crocodile up and enrages him. Before the three minutes are up, Crocodile decides he is done playing with Luffy even though Luffy says to have been fighting seriously the whole time. He then shows off his first impressive attack - Desert Spada (Desert Sword in italian). It sends a blade of sand towards Luffy that he once again narrowly dodges. Crocodile compliments Luffy on his quick reflexes and claims that had it hit him, he would have certainly died. Crocodile finally explains to Luffy why he will never win. Unlike Luffy, Crocodile trained his Devil Fruit powers to the point of mastering them. He claims that any Devil fruit power can be powerful in a fight as long as someone knows how to use them properly. Crocodile says to Luffy that if he has proper training, his skills can be as formidable as any, but claims that Luffy's not there yet, just like all the other fools who waste time obsessing over their abilities. Crocodile attacks again instantly afterwards with Desert Girasole (Desert Sunflower), creating a large pit of quicksand where Luffy was standing. He escapes however with another bazooka.
This is when Crocodile seems to get deadly serious. As Luffy futilely continues to attack him, Crocodile uses Barchan, which completely dehydrates Luffy's right arm. In a comedic fashion, Luffy remembers the water from Yuba, and drinks from it restoring his arm quickly. Luffy then attacks in a quite familiar fashion to the former king of Drum Kingdom Wapol by using Gomu Gomu no Baku Baku to chomp off the top part of Crocodile. Crocodile dodges, but is infuriated by Luffy's attack.
The three minutes from the sand timer have run out as well. Crocodile prepares his last attack- Sables (Sandstorm) to finish Luffy. However, it seems as if it was not actually intended for Luffy but for Yuba to the south, for the wind blows from north to south. Luffy, enraged at Crocodile's cruelty asks why. Luffy, for whatever reason thinks talking Crocodile and the sandstorm down will make it go away. Crocodile impales Luffy with his hook right in the middle of his ranting.

Water has reached Yuba and Toto is relieved. Another sandstorm is caused by Crocodile. Meanwhile, Crocodile pierces Luffy in his stomach and tells him he failed. Luffy is bleeding some water caused by the one he drank earlier to rehydrate his arm. Luffy grabs his arm heavily and Crocodile is surprised he is still alive.
He throws Luffy into the quicksand and heads to Alubarna. The rest of The Straw Hats are riding on Hasami. Usopp is telling Chopper one of his stories and Zoro is working out by using Matsuge as a dumbbell. Zoro and Sanji argue with each other because Sanji thinks Zoro is scared. Nami hits them and says it's not the time to fool around. Vivi believes in Luffy and says he will meet them in Alubarna. She was the one who was worried the most. Nami bonks her on the head and say she worries about the rebellion.
Smoker orders Tashigi to go to Alubarna. She has to decide whether to pursue the Straw Hats or support the royal army while Smoker goes out to sea. Smoker says he will accept responsibility for whatever choice she makes. Nami and the others have to cross a wide river if they want to make it to Alubarna. Hasami cannot cross the ocean, so they decide to make him speed up enough to run on the water. Nami motivates Hasami by using her dancing outfit to make him run across the ocean since Hasami likes dancer girls.
They reach 3/4 across the ocean when Hasami sinks down into the sea. They swim back up and they are attacked by a Sea Monster, who is quickly defeated by the Kung-Fu Dugongs.  The Kung-Fu Dugongs reply that they would never disobey their master's will (Luffy). They reach shore and see something coming after them in the distance. It is revealed to be Karoo and the Super Spot-Billed Duck Troops.
Luffy is stuck in the middle of the quicksand and tries to struggle out, but is being covered in the sand. Nico Robin saves him by using her Hana Hana no Mi powers and asks him about the "Will of the D", also having retrieved Luffy's hat.
Pell arrives, still injured and asks Nico Robin what she did to Vivi. She replies that Luffy saved her and that she is safe, telling Pell to aid Luffy. While she leaves, Luffy grabs onto Pell while yelling for meat. Back in Alubarna the Royal Guards are preparing for battle. The King is shown to have been kidnapped by Mr. 4 and Miss Merry Christmas, as he expresses not wanting Chaka and Koza to fight. Igaram is shown to be still alive.

Luffy is with Pell and he continues to tell Pell that he needs meat. Since Luffy is badly injured from his last encounter with Crocodile, Pell tells him that he does not need food, he needs a doctor right away. But Luffy pull his clothing and tells him that he will make Crocodile pay for what he did to Vivi and Toto.
Meanwhile, the Rebel Army is still on their way to Alubarna to attack the Royal Army. The elite members of Baroque Works wait for Vivi and the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates to show up. Unexpectedly, Mr. 4 spots them approaching Alubarna on ducks, who are part of the Super Spot-Billed Duck Troops (or Hikoichi). Vivi and the Straw Hats are all wearing similar cloaks, so it is difficult for the Baroque Works members to spot which one is Vivi. Vivi and the Straw Hats split up in different directions, which forces the Baroque Works members to split up as well.
After everyone is successfully broken into groups, the people on the ducks reveal who they are. But Princess Vivi is not in any of the groups, she did not run off with everyone else. Vivi and Karoo stand outside of Alubarna city in order to stop the Rebel Army and the Royal Army from fighting with each other. Koza sees someone in front of the city but thinks he is hallucinating. Then a cannon was shot prematurely by a Royal Army Guard, who is actually a member of the Baroque Works team. Vivi and Karoo are still standing but cannot see what is in front of them because of all the dust. Vivi shouts to Koza, yelling "Leader" (a name Koza had since they were kids). Koza hears it but still thinks he is imagining things during the commotion. Vivi is knocked over and sees that there are camels coming her way. Karoo acts quickly and covers her with his body and instead of her getting trampled he got trampled. Vivi gets up and sees what he did and begins to cry and tells Karoo that she will stop it no matter what. 
Usopp appears on a horse, but it is actually Mr. 2. Vivi notices that it isn't actually Usopp because he calls Karoo, "That Bird." Vivi does not believe that the real Usopp would call Karoo that after as much as they had been through on Little Garden. She then tells the fake Usopp to prove himself with the bandage that the crew had wrapped around their arms (in previous episodes).
The scene then goes to Sanji telling the real Usopp and Matsuge to wake up because they had been beaten up and knocked out. It goes to a flashback of how they set up the bandages to identify the real members of their team. Mr. 2 reveals that he isn't really Usopp, but that Crocodile told the elite members of Baroque Works that all the Straw Hat Pirates had bandages on their arms.

Sanji realizes that Vivi is in trouble and that Mr. 2 had went after her. He tells Usopp to go and help Chopper at the South East Gate. But Sanji is caught in-between a fight with the Royal Army and Rebel Army. He tells both sides that he is not with either side and beats up both sides to get to Princess Vivi, telling both groups that he only fights for the ladies.
Chopper is caught in a fight with the team of Miss Merry Christmas and Mr. 4.
Mr. 2 attempts to kill Vivi, but Karoo gets up in time to get her on his back and run away, although he is not in a good condition to run fast. Karoo runs up a cliff and is unable to reach the top which is only a step away. But he remembers when Luffy told him that Vivi is the Straw Hats' friend and he flaps his wings and reaches the top. Although, Mr. 2 begins to run up the cliff too. Karoo gets hit with a stray bullet from the fighting and is no longer able to run. After falling, Karoo tells Vivi to run by signaling with his wing because Mr. 2 is getting closer. Out of nowhere two other members of the Duck Troops show up and Sanji is with them. Sanji is left to fight Mr. 2 and the two members of the Duck Troops take care of the injured Karoo.
Zoro and Nami are left with Mr. 1 and Miss Doublefinger. Nami and the ducks cheer Zoro on because they believe he is going to fight the Baroque Works members. But they walk past Zoro and go straight for Nami as they believe that the weakest opponent should be taken out first. Nami tries to talk her way out of it but realizes that they will not back down so she runs away.
Usopp finds Chopper laying on the ground and wakes him up. Chopper tells Usopp that Miss. Merry Christmas ate the Mole Mole Fruit so she is able to go underground and that Mr. 4 is very strong. Usopp and Chopper are left to dodge the bombs that Mr. 4 continues to hit towards them.

Chopper is able to move Usopp out of the way from the exploding baseballs. Usopp disappears inside of Miss. Merry Christmas' mole holes and emerges to hit Mr. 4 over the head with a fake five ton hammer. Usopp begins to play whack-a-mole with Miss Merry Christmas. 
Usopp and Chopper continue to fight the pair as Vivi is still running to try and stop the rebellion. Miss Merry Christmas tries to attack Usopp from underground. Chopper gets hit by Mr. 4 because he was paying too much attention to Usopp and Miss Merry Christmas' battle. Chopper finds a way to defeat Mr. 4 and Miss. Merry Christmas using Mr. 4's dog, Lasso.

Miss Merry Christmas has informed Usopp that Luffy is dead. While she and Mr. 4 are glad that Luffy is gone, Usopp refuses to accept it. The mole-like woman swings Usopp along the ground and Mr. 4 takes his hit. Even so, Usopp is still standing and believes Luffy is still alive.
Before Mr. 4 and Miss Merry Christmas continue, Usopp obstructs their vision with smoke, then Chopper tricks Mr. 4 into hitting his partner. Usopp then slingshots a hammer right into the giant Baroque Works agent from Chopper's horns. One of Mr. 4's baseball's then puts the Baroque Works pair out.
In the city, the fighting worsens and Koza is feeling unfazed by the bullet he took in Nanohana. He then plans to force Cobra to surrender. Vivi races to warn her father but if she can't reach him, wishes to speak with Chaka.
Meanwhile, Mr. 2 is fighting Sanji in the streets. He then attempts to distract Sanji with a swan ballet. Much of their attacks barely affect one-another. Bon Clay uses his Clone-Clone powers to rearrange his own face. But Sanji dislikes it. He then tries to use Usopp's face, but the cook doesn't fall for it. Bon Clay believes his soul is refined. He then shifts his face into Nami's rapidly which catches Sanji's attention.
Vivi arrives at the palace to stop Chaka's fighting. She then wants the palace destroyed. Chaka shakes for a moment, but then accepts her orders.

The battle between Mr. 2 and Sanji continues forward, with Sanji appearing to be outmatched after being hoodwinked by Bon Kurei transforming continuously into Nami. eventually with determination Sanji is able to see that Bon Kurei has to become himself to be able to perform his ballet. 
Meanwhile at the palace, Vivi is determined to ensure that the palace is blown up, in order to get the attention of the rebels. Chaka has been convinced and Vivi remembers her time with the crew. 
Back within Chopper's care, Usopp is badly hurt and believed to be dying when Chopper admits he hid the Manju bun so that Usopp couldn't eat it and now he wants to share half with Usopp. However, this reinvigorates Usopp who is hungry and determined to fight for the entire Manju bun, wide awake and just fine after the battle, punching Chopper away.  
The scene cuts back to a panicking Zoro, angry at Nami for not hiding when he warned her to because Mr. 1 and his partner have determined to kill Nami first because the weakest is easier to beat. Here we learn the story of how Zoro was first faced with Mr. 1 and invited to join Baroque Works as well as learn about Mr. 1 and his Blade Blade fruit abilities that allow him to turn his entire body into blades.

Vivi cannot believe that Luffy is dead. Crocodile proceeds to tell her that Luffy would have still been alive had he not gotten involved with her. Vivi refuses to believe this and demands that Crocodile tell her where Luffy is.
Meanwhile the battle between the rebels and the Royal Army is still going on. Nami remarks that Vivi's plan to stop the rebel army at the entrance must have failed. She wonders if Vivi and the others are all right as they are all fighting while she is running and hiding.  She thinks back to the day where she asks Usopp to make her a weapon so she can be strong enough not to endanger the others. Being a couple of ordinary humans with no special abilities, she says she knows that Usopp can empathize with her. Usopp agrees to make her weapon.
Miss Doublefinger finds Nami while she is hiding and stabs her shoulder using her Toge Toge no Mi abilities which allows her to grow spikes on any part of her body. Nami takes out her Clima-Tact and decides to fight her as she recalls Usopp telling her the features of her new weapon that has elemental powers.
She tries her first move, Fine Tempo, which made doves appear. She is disappointed as this "attack" is nothing more than a party trick. She remains optimistic thinking that at least the move has caught the enemy off guard. She tries her second move, Cloudy Tempo, which causes flowers to spout when a button is pushed. Miss Doublefinger, seeing Nami's weak attempts to attack her, feels sorry for her but proceeds to attack her with her spikes. Nami barely dodges her but is determined to fight back. She drops her Clima-Tact, but seeing no threat from Nami's weapon, Miss Doublefinger gives it back to her.
Nami launches her third move, Thunder Tempo, where a boxing glove springs from the weapon. Miss Doublefinger loses patience and attacks Nami, which she dodges. She hides and continues to read the Clima-Tact instructions desperate to find a move that can damage her enemy. She finds battle configurations at the back of the instructions. She discovers each of the three batons of her weapon have special qualities. The first can create hot air, emitting a hot ball. The second can create cool air, emitting a cool ball, and the third can create electricity, emitting a thunderball. She tests this out, but Usopp's instructions state that these features have not yet been perfected but can be used at parties.
Miss Doublefinger proceeds to attack Nami again, and she runs away. Nami is stabbed on her calf, and she falls down. Just as Miss Doublefinger is about to give the finishing blow, Nami swings her Clima-Tact and she unintentionally uses the Cyclone Tempo, the effect of which is like a boomerang. As she is studying her weapon, Nami has her back turn against her enemy which insults Miss Doublefinger and causes her to attack Nami. Nami is seemingly skewered by the attack, but a dove flies towards the skewered Nami revealing that it was just an illusion. Nami explains that she used the Mirage Tempo where her Clima-Tact allowed her to create a mirage of herself. Finally getting a better understanding of how the Clima-Tact works, Nami tells Miss Doublefinger that she is now ready to actually fight.
Meanwhile, Crocodile has taken Cobra and nails him to the palace walls. Vivi and Chaka are unable to do anything. He tells them that he has no intention of keeping Cobra or Vivi alive and will kill them after he gets what he has really been after since the very beginning. He then asks Cobra where the Pluton is. Cobra is shocked by this question and demands to know how Crocodile knows this name.

Crocodile reveals his true motive and explains the details of Pluton. After hearing of this for the first time, King Cobra informs Crocodile that even the existence of the weapon is in doubt. Crocodile affirms that even he cannot confirm its existence but reveals his back-up plan.
Crocodile informs Vivi and Cobra that he has planted a bomb to explode in the Palace Square at 4:30, one and a half hours after the Rebel Army and the Royal Guard clash at the Square. 
Crocodile then instead asks for the location of the Poneglyph from Cobra, who agrees to go with Crocodile and take him to the location. Enraged, Chaka prepares to attack Crocodile.
Elsewhere, Nami attempts to further understand the Clima-Tact and reads Usopp's instructions on the special Tornado Tempo attack as Miss Doublefinger continues her attack. Nami considers the options ahead of her and uses many of the features of the Clima-Tact, to the amusement of Miss Doublefinger, who continues to attack Nami as she tries to buy more time for her strategy.
Outside Alubarna, Sanji meets up with Usopp and Chopper and returns Usopp's goggles that he took from Mr. 2. They all meet up with Matsuge and decide to continue towards the palace to help Vivi. 
At the Alubarna North Block, Miss Doublefinger continues to attack Nami, leaving her injured and bleeding but Nami buys enough time to create a thundercloud and launches an electric shock on Miss Doublefinger. Angry and injured, Miss Doublefinger again attacks Nami at which point Nami reveals her Mirage Tempo ability which manipulates the humidity of the atmosphere to create mirages. This allows Nami to go behind Miss Doublefinger and remember the information from Usopp that warns her that Tornado Tempo is a one-time attack only. Nami remembers the dangers the crew has been through and resolves to continue fighting for Vivi's sake, but her injured leg is causing her to falter. Seeing an opportunity, Miss Doublefinger attacks with her Sea Urchin Stinger, and Nami stops the attack with her leg.
Nami launches the Tornado Tempo, which initially does not do anything, but then wraps around Miss Doublefinger and launches her through buildings, ending the fight in Nami's victory.
In another location, Zoro and Mr. 1 are clashing, and Zoro recalls that Mr. 1 used to be a famous assassin in West Blue. They clash, and Zoro realizes that Mr. 1's body is as hard as steel, exclaiming that he can not yet cut still but has been waiting for an opportunity like this to grow stronger.

Roronoa Zoro is struggling in his fight against Mr. 1 due to his inability to cut through steel. After a prolonged battle where Zoro displays a wide variety of techniques against the assassin, he thinks back back to when his old mentor said that a swordsman who can cut nothing can cut anything including steel. Still not understanding this idea, he is forced onto the defensive from Mr. 1's attacks which climax with the latter creating multiple spinning blades on his arms, landing a direct hit on the swordsman. Unable to defend against it, Zoro falls against a pillar and Mr. 1 delivers what he believes is the final blow that further wounds Zoro and destroys the pillar he was leaning on, causing the pillar and arch fall on top of him.
Mr. 1 begins to walk away but quickly notices that Zoro has gotten up once again. Wondering out loud how Zoro was able to dodge all the flying debris, the swordsman claims that he did not dodge it all, and that he just was able to sense where no debris was falling and went there. Further elaborating to himself, Zoro notes that he can sense the rhythm of all things around him and can tell where his sword is, turning over a stone to find it. Picking it up, he then turns and slashes at some leaves on a tree without cutting them before then cutting a rock clean in half. Finally coming to an understanding of his teacher's words, he then attacks Mr. 1 with only one sword. Zoro then proves he is finally able to cut Mr. 1 and defeats him, collapsing to the ground and wonders if everyone else is okay.

The Tsumegeri Guards charge into the palace to attempt to save Cobra. Cobra orders them not to attack as they will just be throwing away their lives. The Guards tell their King that they have sworn to protect him even to the death. Acknowledging their reputation, Crocodile offers to spare their lives if they leave and go home, to which they refuse. However, before they can attack, their bodies show signs changes and bruising. Chaka explains that to temporarily increase their power they must have drank Hero Water which grants incredible strength but kills the host and that they are good as dead. They proceed to attack Crocodile, but he turns himself into sand and dodges their attack. Crocodile states that he won't bother to fight them since they're going to die anyway. Shortly thereafter, the Tsumegeri Guards all collapse and die. Crocodile laughs at this which angers Chaka causing him to attack Crocodile. Chaka reveals his Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Jackal devil fruit power. He is, however, unable to land a blow due to Crocodile's powers.
Meanwhile, after his fight, Zoro collapses due to loss of blood. As he lies barely conscious, he wonders how the others are doing and that they better not be dead. With this, he thinks about Usopp. In another part of the city, Sanji, along with Chopper and Usopp who are being carried by Matsuge, are running towards the palace. Usopp is in tears, remembering that Miss Merry Christmas told them that Luffy is dead. Chopper tearfully tells him that it might not be true while Sanji, with a smile on his face, asks them if they truly believed that. They answer that they believe Luffy is still alive.
Cutting back to Zoro, he is now thinking about Nami and wondering if she managed to escape. Nami is then shown somewhere in Alubarna - North Block, detangling her Clima-Tact's final attack from Miss Doublefinger's body. She then proceeds to go to the palace.
Zoro then wonders if Vivi is okay. Vivi is then shown calling out Chaka's name with Chaka lying down on the ground, bloodied. A figure then approaches Vivi and calls out her name. 
Scene cuts to the Palace Square, showing that there are 25 minutes left until the time of the explosion Crocodile has planned. 
The figure is revealed to be Koza, who is in disbelief on what he is seeing before him. He sees the Tsumegeri Guards dead on the ground, Chaka bloodied and lifeless, Cobra nailed to the palace walls, and that Crocodile, the supposed country's hero, is behind it all. Crocodile is amused at the turn of events where the country is in the midst of war and the leaders of both sides are not on the battlefield but are standing at his feet. 
Miss All Sunday ridicules Koza's confusion and offers to "help" him understand. She tells him to relax and open his mind and think of the worst possible scenario. Koza realizes that his father was right about Cobra and that he was wrong to doubt him. Koza demands to know who was responsible for the drought ravaging Arabasta, where Crocodile answers that for the past two years, every single malicious thing Koza attributed to Cobra was in fact perpetuated by him and his company, Baroque Works. Crocodile continues to taunt Koza, but Cobra calls his attention and demands that he listen. Cobra asks him to save as many citizens as he can. Chaka tells him about the bomb in the palace square and to hurry. Crocodile, seeing that Chaka is still alive, proceeds to strike him once more seemingly killing him.
Koza runs towards the palace square, but Vivi chases him and pulls him to the ground. She implores him to listen and think things through. She explains that if they tell everyone that the palace square will explode, everyone will panic which will add more chaos to the battle and that even if they stop the bomb, it doesn't really stop the fighting and people are still going to die. She tells him that they have to stop the rebellion instead and that he is the only one who can do it. Hearing their plans, Crocodile tries to stop them and attempts to strike Vivi but is blocked by Chaka giving them time to get away. 
Vivi reaches the Royal Army and commands them to surrender immediately. Koza then comes out and tells the Royal Army that they no longer need to fight and that they just want to end the conflict. As the rebel army approaches the palace square, they see the Royal Army waving white flags of surrender. They also see their leader, Koza waving a white flag. He tells them to quiet their anger and lower their weapons. He announces that the battle is over. However, he is shot multiple times by what looks like a soldier of the Royal Army but is actually a Baroque Works agent who has infiltrated their ranks. Vivi screams in horror.

Koza is shot by Baroque Works agents that have infiltrated the Royal Guards and as he collapses, he tries to tell the Rebel Army not to fight. The Royal Guards confront the solider that shot Koza but as Koza once again tries to talk to the Rebel Army, a sandstorm blows through the palace obscuring the battlefield and allowing Baroque Works agents that have infiltrated both sides to fire more shots towards the Rebel Army and Royal Guard, triggering a clash between them.
Vivi and Koza try to stop the fighting, but their voices are drowned out by the fighting occurring in the Palace Square. In the Palace, Chaka succumbs to his wounds and collapses and King Cobra tells Vivi to run away which she refuses, pointing out that Crocodile was the cause of the sandstorm and that she still wanted to stop the bomb that is set to explode in fifteen minutes, to at least save some of the fighters in the Palace Square. 
Crocodile then grabs Vivi by the neck, telling her she was too weak to have those zealous ideals, and she reminds him that as the Princess of the country, she will never yield to him or give up. Crocodile reminds Vivi that the Rebel Army reinforcements are still arriving and will walk into the range of the blast and then hangs her over the cliff by the neck as he lambastes her for her decision not to tell the soldiers about the bomb, pointing out that despite the panic, at least a few thousand would've survived. Crocodile notes that Vivi had been working as a spy in Baroque Work for two years and then drops her off the cliff.
In the distance, Luffy arrives flying on Pell to Crocodile's shock. They catch Vivi before she hits the ground, and she tells them about the bomb that is set to explode. At the Palace Square, Luffy and Vivi meet up with Chopper, Sanji and Usopp as well as Zoro who had been carrying Nami. Luffy apologizes for losing to Crocodile and promises not to lose again and tells them to take care of the other matters as he stretches up towards the Palace to fight Crocodile.
Crocodile attempts to dodge Luffy's hit, only to be punched in the face, making him bleed slightly. Before he could recover, Luffy attacks him again and Crocodile begins to realize that Luffy has uncovered his weakness. Luffy explains that he found his weakness after their first fight when the water he got from Yuba spilled on Crocodile, preventing him from turning to sand. 

With Crocodile lying on the ground, Luffy demands that he get up and fight. Crocodile laughs at this statement.
Meanwhile, Vivi and the rest of the Straw Hats are in the Palace Square. Vivi explains that according to Crocodile, within ten minutes, a huge cannon will be fired, and once the cannon is fired, no one within a five-kilometer radius will survive, wiping out both the Rebel and Royal Army forces. Zoro tells them that they need to find the cannon and stop the cannoneer from shooting. Before they can go ahead and look for the cannon, some Baroque Works Billions find Vivi and try to bring her to Crocodile for a promotion. Sanji and Zoro volunteer to stay behind to deal with the agents while the others go ahead and split up to look for the cannon. 
Crocodile is still laughing at Luffy's statement, telling him that it will not be so easy to defeat him, since he is one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea. Luffy is unimpressed and says that if Crocodile is one of the Seven Warlords, then he is the eighth Warlord. Cobra cannot believe what he is hearing and is impressed by Luffy's confidence. He asks who Luffy is, and Miss All Sunday tells him that he is the one responsible for bringing Vivi back to Arabasta.
Even though Luffy has figured out how to land a punch on Crocodile, the Warlord is still confident stating that even though Luffy can hit him, he can still absorb any fluid in Luffy's body. He proceeds to dehydrate Luffy's arm, which Luffy counters by drinking more water. The two continue their battle and Luffy reveals that he was planning to throw the barrel of water he was carrying to douse Crocodile in water. Crocodile predicts this move and counters it by conjuring a twister of sand, sending both Luffy and the barrel flying away. Luffy barely catches the barrel of water. Crocodile laughs at Luffy, telling him that this battle is no different from the first time they fought. Luffy proceeds to drink the whole barrel of water he was carrying and dubs himself as Water Luffy, showing a bloated stomach full of water, which shocks both Crocodile and Cobra and amuses Miss All Sunday. 
Cobra attacks Luffy but Luffy squirts out water from his mouth and douses Crocodile with water, just as he planned, making the Warlord susceptible to Luffy's physical attacks. Luffy uses his Gomu Gomu no Bazooka technique and hits Crocodile directly to his stomach which sends him crashing. Crocodile is lying on the ground, not moving. Miss All Sunday removes the stakes impaling Cobra and demands that he show her the way to the Poneglyph. Cobra asks what she wants with it, but she subdues him and reiterates her demand. 
Crocodile gets up and calls Miss All Sunday by her real name, Nico Robin, telling her that she should get going now to the Poneglyphs. As Nico Robin and the King leave, Crocodile uses his Ground Secco technique which dehydrates all of their surroundings turning it to a desert wasteland. Luffy shoots water at Crocodile which he simply absorbs with his hand. He continues to suck the moisture out of ground, the effects of which are felt throughout the palace.
With eight minutes left until the explosion, Vivi, Pell and the rest of the Straw Hats scramble to find the cannon.
Meanwhile, Cobra asks if Nico Robin is truly Miss All Sunday's name. He remembers that the name was known throughout the world twenty years ago. On their way to the Poneglyphs, they encounter Tashigi and a bunch of Marines. Tashigi refuses to let them pass, but Robin uses her abilities to incapacitate some of her men. Seeing the ability, a Marine recognizes who she is and tells Tashigi that twenty years ago, when she was eight years old, Robin earned a bounty of 79,000,000 for sinking six Marine ships, classifying her as a first-degree risk. After the incident, she was said to have vanished and never heard from again. After hearing about her reputation, Tashigi commands her men to go to the Palace Square to stop the explosion, deeming it useless for so many men to fight against someone with her power. She stays behind, deciding to fight her, but Robin uses her ability against Tashigi and easily defeats her.
In the palace, the entire lawn has turned to sand. Crocodile is able to sneak up on Luffy and grab him by the neck. Luffy spits water at Crocodile but misses and he proceeds to absorb all of the water in Luffy's body, dehydrating him. Luffy's signature straw hat is shown to be blown away by the wind. While still holding Luffy by the neck, Crocodile declares that Luffy has lost to him for the second time.

Luffy's body water got dried out by Crocodile leaving Luffy close to death. However, the water he had shot out at Crocodile came falling and landed on him which brought him back to life. After Luffy recovered, he went searching for Crocodile. Nico Robin and King Cobra, on the way to the royal tomb, encountered the Marines and were ordered to surrender, however she overcame them easily. Sometime afterwards, Crocodile came by and laughed at them for being easily overcome.
Meanwhile, the remainder of the Straw Hat crew, Vivi and Pell are still in search of the hidden cannon and time is counting down fast. Luffy, on the pursuit of Crocodile, came by Tashigi and requested which route Crocodile took. After some contemplation, she showed Luffy the way Crocodile went and scolded herself after he took off. Upon nearing the tomb, Luffy began to bleed and fell to the ground sleeping. Meanwhile, with the help of Cobra, Nico Robin found the Poneglyph and started reading it. Crocodile at this point had reached the location of the Poneglyph as well. The Straw Hats are still in search of the bomb.
Upon encountering the Poneglyph, Nico Robin read and inquired from Cobra if there were any more Poneglyphs in the country and Cobra asked if she was disappointed by the one they found. Crocodile finds them and tells Nico Robin to read what is written on the Poneglyph. She began reading however, she was simply reading the history of Arabasta to him. On hearing that, Crocodile got very upset and asked if the Poneglyph revealed the location of the ancient weapon - Pluton. Nico Robin answered him saying nothing of the name Pluton is mentioned in this Poneglyph. Crocodile then told her that she has been useful for the four years they had been together operating Baroque Works. However, she would have to die since she broke her promise of not giving him the location of Pluton after reading the Poneglyph. Nico Robin tried to kill him but failed. At that point, Cobra had initiated a timer that would destroy the underground tomb stating that both Crocodile and Nico Robin would die along with him because he would never let Crocodile have the "Country of Sand."
During the search of the bomb Vivi ends up with a skinned knee when one of her platform sandal straps disintegrates from all the abusive running that has worn it apart and sends her tumbling onto the hard, stony road. Losing her other sandal in the fall, she is forced to abandon the ruined pair and continue running barefoot, making her search all the more painful as her unprotected feet get beaten up while she dashes through the rough streets of Alubarna. She got a revelation of the possible location of the bomb and had Usopp summon the remainder of the Straw Hats when they crossed the streets. Luffy is finally awake from his nap and went running searching for Crocodile. Crocodile informs Cobra that his plan to bury all three of them together is futile because he is able to turn the bedrock of the tomb to sand and make his escape.

Vivi and Usopp are together and Vivi has an idea of where the cannon is hidden. Usopp had signaled the other member of The Straw Hat Pirates (in the previous episode) with one of his sling shot bombs. But Billions from the Baroque Works had found them instead. To distract them, Usopp uses a chalkboard and drags his nails down it to make a loud noise; he grabs Vivi and runs away.
Meanwhile, Luffy finds where Crocodile, Nefertari Cobra, and the critically injured Nico Robin is. Crocodile is upset that Luffy is still alive, no matter how many times he defeats Luffy. Cobra is baffled by who the strange boy is (Luffy). Luffy demands that Crocodile give him back Vivi's country, so Vivi can smile again. Luffy punches Crocodile twice and Crocodile is confused about how he is doing it without water. Luffy was using his blood to touch Crocodile preventing Crocodile from using his powers from the devil fruit. Crocodile takes off a covering from his hook that reveals he has poison in it.
Zoro runs to where the smoke bomb was shot by Usopp. But finds a group of Marines who were with Tashigi. They berate him for having a poor sense of direction and then give him orders on where to go to find the center of the city of Alubarna.
Vivi and Usopp are still running with Baroque Works members chasing them. Tashigi and a few Marine members attack the men chasing Vivi and Usopp. Nami and Tony Tony Chopper find Vivi and Usopp with two minutes left before the bomb kills the Royal Army and Rebel Army and everyone in the center of Alubarna. Pell is shot from the sky by a mysterious frog woman hidden in the Clock Tower who is later revealed to be working for Baroque Works.
Luffy and Crocodile continue their fight and Luffy dodges Crocodile's attacks made by his hook. Cobra notices that Crocodile is struggling in the fight.
Vivi is looking for Pell thinking he's their only hope to reach the cannon in time. Sanji and Zoro are in the Clock Tower. With 30 seconds left, the Clock Tower opens with Mr. 7 and Miss Father's Day inside laughing.

Tashigi attacks the men from Baroque Works and tells the marines they should not hesitate and they should immediately know who their enemy is. Mr. 7 and Miss Father's Day speak with joy about firing the bomb because that is their last mission from the boss and believe that they will get a promotion. Luffy continues to fight Crocodile, but the poison from Crocodiles hook has entered a wound on Luffy's shoulder, making his body numb. Crocodile tells Luffy that he should have forgotten about Vivi because he would have avoided such situations he has been in.
Meanwhile, Nami came up with an idea to stop the bomb with the weapon Usopp created for her. The plan is aiding Vivi up the clock tower, starting by having her sitting on Chopper, who is standing on Usopp's shoulders. Nami then threw her Clima-Tact between his legs using Cyclone Tempo, making him jump high enough for Chopper to jump towards Sanji, who kicks them towards Zoro. While midair and only seven seconds left, Mr. 7 and Miss Father's Day's sees them coming, and shoots at them, but only hits Zoro, who managed to push Chopper and Vivi out of the way and high enough for Chopper to throw Vivi towards the clock tower. With five seconds left, Vivi is able to cut the fuse that will activate the bomb.
Meanwhile, Crocodile laughs at how pathetic Luffy looks with the poison running through his body. Crocodile tells Nefertari Cobra that he was well-prepared for this big event and the time bomb would do plenty of damage from where it is placed, and it would only delay the bomb for a couple of seconds or so.
Vivi finds out that the canon is also a time bomb, and cries with frustration because she sees that Crocodile is mocking at her. He had told her before that she will not succeed in saving her beloved country no matter what she does. Pell shows up and while Vivi is trying to tell him about the time bomb, he speaks of how the Clock Tower brings back so many memories from Vivi's childhood.
In Pell's flashback he tells Vivi that he is a guard that is there to protect his country. He takes the time bomb and flies up towards the sky. As he is flying away, in the background his voice is heard and he says, "I am, Arabasta's Guardian Deity, The Falcon! And I am sworn to destroy the enemies of the Royal family". When the sentence is finished, the time bomb blows up.

Vivi is distraught after Pell's sacrifice. Even though he got the bomb away, the shock wave still knocks people down and damages buildings. None of the Straw Hats on the surface can believe it, either. Even worse, the residents of Alubarna just get up and start killing each other again. Tashigi is held back by Marines on the scene from interfering. Having lost all hope, Vivi just starts repeatedly screaming, "PLEASE STOP FIGHTING!", from the bell tower. Only the Straw Hats can hear her. Nami sensing Vivi's pain and frustration tells the others to go stop the civil war at all costs.
Under Alubarna, the tomb is crumbling. King Cobra and Miss All-Sunday are both out, as well as apparently Luffy. Crocodile revels in what seems to be his ultimate victory. However, Luffy gets up, much to Crocodile's shock. Cobra comes to as well as Luffy declares he cannot be beaten. Crocodile tries to get him with his hook again, but Luffy kicks it away so hard the hook breaks off.
Luffy starts beating on Crocodile, and is making headway, throwing him through the ruins. Crocodile has no idea why the scorpion venom is not working on Luffy. He deploys a knife from the stub of his hook, but when he lunges at Luffy, he gets kicked up into the ruins' rafters. Tired of these games, he uses Sables Pasado to blow away more ruins. Luffy inflates his body, then twists and blows, rifling up toward Crocodile. Luffy begins Gomu Gomu no Storm, using his Gatling attack while rocketing toward his enemy. Crocodile counters with Desert La Spada, forming a giant set of claw blades, but they are neutralized by Luffy's blood-soaked fists. Crocodile gets pummeled against the ceiling of the ruins. To Cobra's shock, Crocodile is eventually driven through several feet of bedrock and hundreds of feet into the air above Alubarna.
The Straw Hats and Vivi see Crocodile's unconscious body tumble through the air, and Vivi recalls reading about the worsening situation in Arabasta during their journey. Although the Straw Hats rejoice in Luffy's victory initially, the civil war continues to rage around them. As Vivi continues to beg them to stop, rain suddenly begins to fall. As they feel Alubarna's first rainfall in three years, the people finally stop fighting. Eventually the dust clears, and the people finally hear Vivi's pleas to stop fighting. The people drop their partisans when they realize their princess is alive and well. As Crocodile collides with the street, Luffy hits the bottom of the tomb next to King Cobra. Vivi tells her people the nightmare is finally over and Cobra thanks Luffy.

Although the people's anger is quelled, they don't initially believe Vivi's claim that "the nightmare is over". The people are still angry that King Cobra apparently attacked Nanohana. At this point, Chaka orders the Royal Army of Arabasta to stand down. Also, Igaram appears, to Vivi's relief as she descends the clock tower. He presents Kappa, the kid who was allegedly hurt by the Royal Army in Nanohana. Kappa testifies to the treachery of Crocodile and Baroque Works, and how Mr. 2 Bon Kurei impersonated King Cobra. The people finally agree to throw their weapons down for good.
In the streets, the Straw Hat Pirates are met by King Cobra, who is carrying Luffy, weak but alive. Sanji doesn't know who Cobra is at first, until Vivi runs to him and hugs him. Cobra said Luffy somehow found the strength to carry both of them up to the surface. He also says Luffy got an antidote for Crocodile's poison, though he'll still need to be treated for his injuries. The Straw Hats say they'll make their way to the palace incognito when they're ready, since they're wanted.
The people gather around the disgraced Crocodile as the Marines arrive with Tashigi. Tashigi reveals that her men had confiscated Baroque Works ships with "Dance Powder", a powder that can induce rain, and linked them to Crocodile. She strips him of his title as Warlord of the Sea and places him under arrest, though he's still unconscious and can't resist anyway. The rest of Baroque Works is out of commission...except for Mr. 2, who sneaks through Alubarna to get away. Koza tries to reconcile the actions of the rebellion as he digests Crocodile's treachery. But King Cobra tells his people they can get past this ugly moment in their history, and Arabasta can continue to move forward.
On the coastline, Hina accuses Smoker of using the Dance Powder. Smoker says he knows King Cobra was trying to protect his kingdom without using it, and didn't want to ruin that. He asks Hina to take the ship they are aboard, the Baroque Works rainmaker ship, and Crocodile to Headquarters. Tashigi also orders the Marines in her unit to turn a blind eye to the Straw Hats. The wounded are cleared from Alubarna's square, and Koza assures Vivi that he'll be fine. The people of Arabasta rejoice at the return of the rain. That evening, back at the palace, the Straw Hats finally made it back and are now recuperating from their injuries. Vivi is watching the rain in their room when Igaram came in. He eulogizes Pell and honors his bravery in protecting the kingdom.
The next day, at the port where the Marines are moored, Tashigi arrives with Crocodile. She reports to Smoker, and apologizes for letting Luffy go. Smoker ignores it. Tashigi feels as if she could not figure out what true justice was in the situation and was ashamed that she assisted the Straw Hats in defeating Crocodile. Smoker starts talking about ambition, and how some he knows are making names for themselves. Smoker provides no comfort to the conflicted Tashigi, only telling her to get stronger if she is feels she is not up to the task. She declares she will, and he tells the other soldiers they can only wish for guts like hers.
Marine Headquarters places a Den Den Mushi call in to Smoker, requesting he and Tashigi report in. They have ignored his report, and are crediting him and Tashigi with the apprehension of Crocodile, with promotions in rank to match. Hina says the World Government wants to cover up the Straw Hats' involvement. Unwilling to accept that, Smoker angrily tells the World Government what they can do with their promotion.

Dr. Ho wonders over Chopper's skill at mixing medicine. As she passes by, Vivi notes that he was trained as a doctor on Drum Island. Dr. Ho notes he did not know about Chopper's techniques despite 40 years of training himself. Chopper goes into his usual routine of responding to praise with insults, but Dr. Ho translates them as appreciation. Vivi cares for Luffy at a nearby bed, with Karoo laying at the next bed over.
Sanji and Usopp walk through the capital city as it rebuilds, remarking at the people's resilience as they rebuild. Sanji quickly walks away from one area when he recalls that a particular set of holes through a series of buildings was caused by him. Zoro is elsewhere, working on his concentration by balancing boulders on his fists, seeking to be able to call upon his utmost skills at the shortest notice. In the palace library, King Cobra encourages Nami to take as many books as she likes back with her when the Straw Hats depart. Chaka and his guards hold off Marines who are looking for Luffy and Zoro while Sanji and Usopp, who are not yet wanted, walk by unnoticed.
Luffy soon wakes up, and is feeling much better. He looks for his hat, then quickly feels hungry, and is conflicted between looking for his hat and finding food. Usopp points out Luffy's straw hat on the next bed over; it was found at the ruins by a soldier. Luffy had no idea that he was in bad shape when he was brought to the palace infirmary, and thanks Chopper and Vivi for nursing him back to health. Zoro enters, and Luffy says to him "Long time, no see", then gets puzzled as to why he says it. Zoro gets yelled at by Chopper for ignoring his advice to take it easy. Apparently, Luffy had been asleep for three days; he calculates that he missed 15 meals. A figure comes in, sensing Luffy's awakening. At first Zoro thinks it's Igaram crossdressing, but it's actually his wife, Terracotta, the royal chef. Zoro notes how disturbingly similar she looks to Igaram. She is personally overseeing the banquet to thank Luffy for rescuing Vivi and her husband. Having heard of Luffy's legendary appetite, she has brought a large tray of fruit for Luffy to tide him over before dinner. He scarfs the entire tray up in a split-second. Terracotta looks forward to the challenge of feeding Luffy.
At the banquet that follows, the palace guards stand in disbelief as the Straw Hats gorge themselves, especially Luffy, who has a bad habit of eating food off other people's plates. Sanji is concerned over how fast Chopper is sucking down pasta. Usopp puts the contents of one of his Tabasco no Boshi on a rice ball as a trick; Luffy eats it, of course, and spits fire. Sanji starts to get recipes from the servers. Vivi just laughs at the spectacle, and soon even the guards can't help but laugh as the banquet gets even more raucous. It eventually involves the nose chopsticks. All the while, Terracotta cooks happily, embracing the challenge.
Later on, Cobra invites the Straw Hats to the baths. Eventually, Sanji asks Igaram to show him toward the ladies' side of the bath, so he can do some peeping. He gets offended, but Cobra himself points at a wall they can look over, even though his daughter is in there. Nami and Vivi have that side of the bath to themselves, even though it is as spacious and lavish as the men's side. Nami wonders if a ship could carry such a bath. Vivi notes of all the wonderful things they have seen on their voyage together. As they get ready to switch so Nami can wash Vivi, they notice all the men looking over the wall; Luffy, Sanji, Usopp, Chopper, even Cobra and Igaram (only Zoro absent). Nami has a simple solution. She stands, pulling her towel around her, and tells the men they will owe her 100,000 each for this. She then unleashes her most diabolical move: Happiness Punch. She opens her towel, baring her entire body to the guys. They are all stunned, getting massive nosebleeds and falling back to their side, Sanji mumbling.
With their bath back to themselves, Nami notes the Straw Hats might leave Arabasta that evening. There's no reason for them to stay, and the Marines are probably looking for them by now. This news startles Vivi. On the men's side, Cobra does something unexpected by bowing to the Straw Hats. Igaram is alarmed by his un-kingly display of bowing to another man, but Cobra notes there's no such thing as a naked king. He is thanking them as a resident of Arabasta for saving his kingdom, and as a father for saving his daughter. Nami and Vivi overhear Cobra's gesture.
As night falls over the palace, Nami officially suggests to the others that they leave tonight. Zoro and Sanji agree with her reasoning. Luffy wants some more food, but Zoro says they have to leave immediately. Elsewhere in the palace, Chaka and Igaram have received a new bounty poster for Luffy, and one for Zoro as well. Luffy's bounty has been raised to 100,000,000, and Zoro now has a bounty of 60,000,000. Igaram remarks that Luffy can not turn back now that he's defeated one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea.
Later that night, Igaram runs to warn the Straw Hats, but they are already gone, only Vivi left in their room. Vivi tells him they've already left.
Elsewhere in Arabasta, two Marine Sergeants appear on a ship. One of them is Jango, who has turned traitor on the pirate movement. The other is Fullbody, who has apparently gotten new clout among the Marines. They have taken down a pirate ship, and are dancing in victory. On the nearby dock, Hina is disappointed that their operation took so long. Another Marine notes that all harbors are blockaded, but the Going Merry has gone missing from Erumalu. She orders the Marines to search all over for their ship. Jango and Fullbody return to Hina. She orders them to begin patrol for the Straw Hat Pirates, to their excitement.
The Straw Hats are running across the desert on a group of riding ducks. Luffy is still eating; Sanji shares that he got some recipes and spices from Terracotta so he can make some native dishes in the future. Chopper looks at Nami, who is feeling down right now. Sanji suspects she's thinking about Vivi. Nami says she's down because she's giving up the 1 billion ransom she originally extorted from Igaram. Everyone is shocked that she's feeling down about giving up the money, as opposed to leaving Vivi behind. Usopp ends up falling off his duck.
Igaram wants Vivi to ride to the Straw Hats and warn them about their increased bounties, but Vivi knows Karoo will never be able to catch them by now. Vivi insists they'll be alright, and pushes Igaram out of the room so she can sleep. She is due to address the people of Arabasta the next day. Igaram is concerned that she is too calm about it. Before she goes to bed, Vivi notes how quiet it is now that she's away from the Straw Hats.
Earlier in the day, the Straw Hats got a call over Den Den Mushi from somebody named "Bon-chan". They recognize it as Bon Kurei. Luffy wonders what he wants. He claims that he's taken their ship to the upper Sandora River, and that they are now friends. Zoro says they have no choice but to go where he took their ship, and keep a watchful eye on if he has any tricks for them. Vivi gets their attention, and asks what she should do. She is still uncertain whether to stay or go. Nami says they will get their ship and sail to the Eastern Harbor. If Vivi is not there by Noon, they will consider her to be staying, and leave without her. It is at that point that the Straw Hats take their leave. Vivi notes she can leave for the Eastern Harbor at 8am and make it on time if she chooses; the question is, whether to be a pirate or a princess? She asks Karoo what he would like to do.
Bon Kurei greets the Straw Hats as they arrive at the Going Merry. Luffy is leery of Bon's help, since he lied earlier about helping them. But there's no longer a point to Bon for them to be enemies since Baroque Works is history. He says he took the Going Merry to keep it from being captured by the Marines, and alerts them that they have blocked all the ports. Luffy accepts him as a friend, but Zoro thinks Bon's just doing it because he's just as trapped by the Marines as they are. He admits that this is the case, and Bon Kurei's ship appears shortly thereafter to assist.
That morning, the Marines find the ship, and Hina prepares to enter the battle.

Igaram, overcome by his worry of Vivi joining the Straw Hats pirate crew, dreamed that she declared wanting to be the pirate queen. Upon awakening, he went right away to Vivi's room. Vivi was in her room getting dressed for her speech with the help of Terracotta and Terracotta sent him out. Igaram and Chaka are then seen discussing about the battle between the Straw Hats and the marines ongoing at the harbor and lamenting that they unfortunately cannot help the crew.
The Marines and the Straw Hats have begun battle and the Marines are attempting to sink the Going Merry, leaving the crew in a pinch. Luffy recognized Jango and questioned why he was a marine with Jango answering that he has his own reasons. Sanji, on the other hand, commented that the man next to Jango appeared familiar. Fullbody commented that Sanji and his crew will meet their doom on that day since he's powered up. Usopp went to the cannon launcher and launched a cannon at Jango which destroyed the ship he was on as well as the ship Fullbody was on. Luffy then praised Usopp's marksmanship, saying it was awesome. Bon Kurei told them to escape after those two ships were destroyed and received word that Hina the Black Cage had arrived. He explained that Black Cage Hina is the Marine Headquarters captain that patrolled that area. Bon Kurei questioned why the Straw Hats would not escape and Nami told him about the promise they made with Luffy adding that it was so they could meet a friend.
Cobra and Igaram visit Vivi and she announced she would like to tell them something very important. With his disguise ability, Bon Kurei fooled the marines into pursuing him, allowing the Straw Hats to escape. Bon Kurei recited his Okama Way poem and prepared to engage the marines in battle. Upon witnessing what was unfolding between Bon Kurei's crew and the marines, the Straw Hats cried and swore never to forget them. A flashback as to how Igaram and Vivi found out the instigator in the country's unrest was visited. Another crew of marine ships attacked the Straw Hats again but were overwhelmed. Vivi began her speech which was secretly about her travel with the Straw Hats. On hearing the speech, Zoro and Sanji told Luffy that they had to leave since it appeared Vivi was not coming. Moreover, they were under attack again by another crew of marine ships. The country's people who came to watch Vivi give her speech realized Igaram's attempt to disguise as Vivi and yelled for him to step down.
Vivi made it to the harbor and found the Straw Hat crew waiting as promised. Vivi told them she came to say good-bye and she would be staying behind. She however, asked, if they ever meet again, would they consider her as part of their family? Luffy was about to give her a verbal answer when Nami shut him up. She told him the Marines have seen Vivi and responding verbally would make them consider her as part of them; thus making her into a criminal. So, to give a silent answer and goodbye, the Straw Hats rose their left arm with the cross mark on it as proof that they consider her one of them. Vivi and Karoo also rose their left arm at the shore, indicating their friendship.

Hina explains to Smoker that they sunk Bon Kurei's ship and captured his crew, but the Straw Hats managed to run away. Although, Hina observes that Smoker seems pleased that they managed to escape. King Cobra continues the speech given to the kingdom started by Vivi. Chaka mourns Pell's death at his grave, though he admits that he cannot accept Pell is really gone. Back at Yuba, Toto continues to laugh since hearing the kingdom-wide speech, as he is one of the few people who know the true extent of the Straw Hats' involvement in saving Arabasta. It then cuts to various people and animals who interacted with the Straw Hats through their journey in the desert. Among them are citizens' reactions and plans for the future. Crocodile's casino will probably be shut down as people do not have time to take care of it, neither would they want to. It is then revealed that Pell survived the blast.
The Marines continue to attack the Going Merry and it seems to be sinking. Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji decide they've got to fight them when they trip over large metal pipes Usopp kept-which they then decide to throw out. Luffy throws them all off the ship, and they end up striking the Marine ships, disabling them. Using this to their advantage they make a quick escape. After hearing of the escape, Smoker informs Tashigi of the bounties on Luffy and Zoro, informing her of the latter's exploits at Whisky Peak and his victory over Daz Bonez in Arabasta. He assures her they will get their rematch another time as Tashigi vows to defeat Zoro.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats bemoan the loss of Vivi except Zoro who says if they miss her so much they may as well have forced her to come along. The others insult him (except Luffy who does not know how to make up a proper insult). Suddenly the door to the captain's cabin opens revealing Nico Robin. Everyone who knows who she is panics. Robin says Luffy did something to her and Sanji immediately gets angry at him. Luffy has no idea what she's talking about, but Robin insists that he put her through "excruciating treatment" and that he needs to take responsibility by allowing her to become part of their crew.
Flashback to the temple collapse, as Luffy lay unconscious. Robin gives King Cobra the antidote to Crocodile's poison, telling him Luffy could survive the collapse due to his rubber body. She admits that she did lie to Crocodile about the Poneglyph and never had any intention of handing over a weapon to him: the Poneglyph's inscriptions actually are about Pluton, but she told Crocodile that they only list the monarchs of Alabasta. As Cobra administers the medicine, she tells him the truth: all she wants to know is the True History through the Rio Poneglyph. But now, she's given up. She's spent 20 years looking for it, and Arabasta was her last good lead. At that point, she believed there were simply too many enemies in the path to achieving her dream. Luffy then wakes and saves Cobra and Robin, even though she tells him to just leave her to die, but he ignores her resolutely: "Why do I have to listen to you?"
Back in the present, Robin says that she now has nowhere else to go and that Luffy's "crime" was forcing her to live when she wished to die. Luffy allows her on the crew without another word, shocking the others. He says she is no longer a threat to them. As she allows Luffy and Chopper to play with her powers Usopp attempts to interrogate her but fails rather miserably and ends up terrified of her. However, Nico Robin reveals something about her past: she is an archaeologist since the age of eight, but she also did a lot of other jobs, including killing. Nami is bribed by jewels and gems into accepting her and Sanji was gone from the word go since she's a woman. Meanwhile Usopp, Luffy, and Chopper are having too much fun playing games with her. The only one who stays suspicious is Zoro, but even he is briefly disarmed by her cheerfulness.
As things on the Going Merry get back to as close to normal as they ever are, cut back to Arabasta one last time: Pell drops his crutch as he finds himself standing at his own grave.

The scene opens on an early dawn, where all of the Straw Hat Pirates are asleep. Nami, who is above deck, wakes up and discovers an island in the distance. She calls out to the others, and after a humorous fight between Zoro and Sanji, Luffy awakens and climbs up onto the deck, sees the island, and gives a howl of joy.
Upon landing on the island, Sanji notices that it's abundant with fruit. He suggests that they gather fruit as surplus, therefore, Nami has the remaining crew draw straws to see who gets to stay behind and watch the Going Merry. Luffy takes three, thinking that would make him smarter (which it did not), and in the end, Chopper ended up drawing the longest straw, so he got to stay behind. And so, Luffy, Zoro, and Usopp go to gather fruit while Nami goes to survey the island and draw a map of it, and Sanji follows her, swooning.
Thinking he's all alone on the ship, Chopper decides to play captain, giving out pretend orders to his fellow crew members. For a while, he has fun doing it until he discovers that the newest member of the crew, Nico Robin, was below him the whole time, reading a book. Chopper immediately gets freaked out remembering she was once a Baroque Works Officer Agent and that her specialty is assassination. He tells her he does not trust her and runs off into the ship (though Robin didn't seem to be paying attention). Once inside the ship, Chopper forgets about Robin for a bit and decides to make more Rumble Balls.  While he does so, Robin enters and begins to make more coffee, though Chopper does not notice. Instead, he remembers the first time he made a Rumble Ball.
A flashback occurs to before Chopper met the Straw Hat Pirates, back to when Chopper was still learning medicine. He was experimenting with some of Dr. Kureha's medicine until he heard her coming and accidentally dropped a few of them in. Acting quickly, but not exactly thinking, he pressed the ingredients together and tossed the ball in his mouth and swallowed it. His body then went under an unusual change as his arms suddenly became muscular and grew larger without him doing so on his own.
The flashback ends and Chopper begins to wonder how Dr. Kureha is doing. Then he finally noticed Robin was in the room the whole time and panics again. Thinking she was trying to learn the Rumble Ball's secrets and assassinate him he quickly eats a Rumble Ball and attacks breaking a barrel of water. He changes back into his Brain Point form and uses his Scope move to try to find Robin's weakness. Robin just laughs and uses her Devil Fruit power to tickle Chopper. She also says he's funny and cute to which Chopper insults her while doing a happy little dance. Then Robin hands him an empty barrel saying that since he broke the other barrel he should refill this barrel with more water. Chopper agrees and heads off into the island.
Meanwhile, Luffy goofs around with monkeys and Usopp acts as though he was dying trying to gather fruit for this crewmates, making a dramatic scene. Zoro, while grumbling about being ordered by a woman (especially Nami), does what he is told and gathers lots of fruit by cutting them down from trees using his Three Sword Style. Nami, in the meantime, is busy surveying the island as Sanji showers her with compliments and expresses his love. Nami says he's in the way, and knocks him out of the way.
We then go back to Chopper, who, along with Robin go to gather water. When Chopper wonders why she came along she simply says it has been a while since she has gone for a walk like this.  They finally reach a lake on the island and Chopper proceeds to fill the barrel. Robin sits in a nearby field of flowers. Chopper asks if she was really wanted by the Marines and all alone ever since she was 8, to which Robin replies "Yes". She goes on to say she survived by working for various pirates. She then asks Chopper about the person he was talking about before. Chopper describes Dr. Kureha as "a woman who dresses like a pirate who is a doctor". 
He starts by saying he has spent 6 years learning how to be a doctor from her. In another flashback he is seen yet again messing with medicine when Dr. Kureha shows up. She asks if he's finished reading the pages he was supposed to read but Chopper complains, asking when he is going to do stuff doctors actually do. He then goes on to say he's already memorized all 200 of the books she gave him. Then suddenly, Dr. Kureha collapses. Chopper runs over to her, asking what's wrong. Dr. Kureha mentions that she might have gotten sick from one of her patients.  She then says that he will have to treat her as a test and if he fails, she will die.
Chopper immediately puts her to bed and runs some tests. After checking several books and mixing medicine, he gives her a green sphere-shaped ball which Dr. Kureha takes. Chopper wonders if she's going to ask what's in it and she explains that there is no patient who has room in his/her heart to ask such a question; illnesses cannot be cured unless the patient completely trusts their doctor. She then eats the medicine. Chopper asks if she's any better, but Dr. Kureha says medicine does not work that fast and that she needs her rest. Later that night when Chopper was about to go out to get more water Dr. Kureha tells him he did a good job for someone like him.
Back in the present, Chopper continues to say that was the only compliment he had gotten from Dr. Kureha in all those 6 years. So instead of acknowledging him as a doctor, she trusted him with her life; that's the kind of person Dr. Kureha is. Then Chopper realizes he's said too much but Robin had already gotten up and was ready to head back for the ship. Before she goes she tells Chopper she wishes she had someone to write to like he did. They went back together with Chopper carrying a full barrel of water (still in Brain Point).
Later that night all the Straw Hats were eating the fruit Zoro gathered. Nami was disappointed with Luffy and Usopp, but congratulated Zoro on a job well done and said he'd get to collect fruit through the night. Sanji swooned but Zoro tells him to shut up. Before they got into a fight Nami holds them both back saying she was just kidding. While everyone laughs Luffy asked how Chopper's day was. Chopper said nothing special happened, then looks over at Robin, reading her book, and then added, "...But it's been a great day!"

Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper are fishing off the side of the boat while the rest of the crew relaxes. Chopper catches a large fish, and Usopp catches a small one. Sanji offers Nami some tropical juice that he says will make her skin smooth, and Luffy and the others ask for some, too, as they want to look cuter. Luffy keeps fishing and pulls out a large sea snail, and the crew discuss whether or not to cook it. Before they can, a hatch on the side of the snail's shell opens and a man comes out. He introduces himself as Rice Rice, a traveling salesman from the Den-Den Company who was lost in a storm during a delivery. He thanks them by offering them free product catalogs. While he was explaining his trade to most of the crew, Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper wander into his Escar and begin playing with his inventory. He interrupts them and takes the Buru Buru Blade from Luffy, explaining its different features and apparent value. When he sees Chopper playing with the Ab-Ab Slider he does the same, claiming that both were his company's "Number 1" product. He then straps Usopp into the Golden Fish, much to Usopp's dismay, to demonstrate its functions and then offers the three products, Mero Mero Juice, a stack of encyclopedias, and binoculars for 23,800.
As the crew thumbed through the catalogs, Sanji noticed the company's knife collection. Rice Rice pitched him a super flexible knife from High Mountain and then offered him a dozen table knife set, scissors, a peeling knife, and an electric sharpener for 2,980. He tried to pitch his Silky Smooth Skin Soap to Robin,and she commented on his company's vast inventory. Luffy asked him if they sold live animals and when Rice Rice told him they did not, the captain was disappointed.
Nami asked if he sold paper strong enough to resist weathering. Rice Rice revealed his Millennium Paper, explaining its qualities and possible uses. When Luffy asked if it could be used to make paper airplanes, Rice Rice annoyedly said that doing so would be a waste. Recognizing Nami's strong desire for the paper, he tried to cheat her and drive up the paper's price. He offers it to her for a "reduced rate" of 48 million and she asks if he could take it down further. When he offers to sell it for 47.5 million she countered offered with 2 million. Though Rice Rice drops back to a 4.8 million offer, Sanji said they would pay for it. He ties up Luffy and proposes they turn him into the Marines and Rice Rice realizes that he was the notorious pirate Monkey D. Luffy. As he trembles in fear he notices the crew's jolly roger and falls to the ship's deck, nervously cowering. He quickly jumps to his feet and makes an excuse that he had an appointment to get to, climbs into his Escar and flees the ship in haste.
With Rice Rice gone the crew notices that he has left the inventory he was showing them, including the Millennium Paper Nami wanted. She takes it into her room telling her crewmates to keep quiet and watch the clouds for any weather changes. She decides to start making her dream of drawing a map of the world a reality, settling down to draw Little Garden, Drum Island, and Arabasta. She recalls standing on a cliff in Cocoyasi Village with Bell-mere and Nojiko, asking her mom where the wind and sea come from. Bell-mere answers, laughing and patting her daughter's head. Nami then recalls when she returned to that spot after stealing books from a shop in her village and her mom came up to bring her home for dinner. Nami asks her mom about what is past the sea, to which Bell-mere responds saying that she did not know past the Grand Line. She then told her mom her resolve to travel the world and make a map of everywhere she goes.
Back outside, Sanji orders Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper to clean the ship's deck. Zoro argues that Robin should help instead of relaxing with her book but Sanji defends her. Zoro and Sanji begin to fight over this causing the ship's deck to shake. With the rumble, Nami's ink pen slides across the paper while she is mid-stroke. Aggravated, she comes out of her room and hits both of them over the head telling everyone to be quiet. She returns to her drawing and starts a new draft.
Back outside, Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper try cleaning the ship by riding on the Ab-Ab Slider with a mop. They use the Silky Smooth Skin Soap and make sudsy bubbles which cover the entire deck. Nami comes out when she hears them laughing loudly and is surprised by the bubbles. Getting carried away, Luffy falls off the Ab-Ab Slider and overboard. He grabs the figurehead to prevent himself from falling into the sea but he launches himself straight into Nami's room knocking all of her map-making supplies to the floor in a crash. Furious, she demands they all stay quiet or else she would charge them all 100,000. Luffy tries to apologize, but she pushes them all out. Chopper is both scared and saddened by Nami's frustration.
Nami returns to her map-making and everyone except Chopper falls asleep on the ship's deck. He notices the clouds change and a tornado appears before them. Terrified, he tries to tell Nami but recalls her threat. Unsure what to do he sits on the ship's deck in fear. Nami finishes her first map and exits her room to find Chopper crying about the tornado and not being able to tell her. She reassures him that everything will be alright and wakes up the crew. They all jump to raise the sails and steer the ship, except Robin, who continues to read in the rain. After they pass the storm Nami tells everyone about her first map and reaffirms her dream to chart the whole sea. Robin finishes reading and closes her book and the crew lowers the sails to continue onward.

Luffy sits at the head of the Going Merry while Usopp uses his goggles on top of the ship trying to see through the fog. A ship appears in front of them and he realizes it belongs to the Marines, causing him to become uneasy. More of them start popping up and Nami suggests that the Marines are probably having a hard time seeing through the fog as well, with Robin agreeing and saying that there is probably nothing to worry about. Sanji then spots a child standing on one of the Marine ships and the child gets startled by seeing the pirate's flag, to which he passes out and falls overboard. Sanji begins to jump to save the child but Robin insists that she should save him using her devil fruit powers to reach the boy and bring him to safety. The boy, startled by seeing the strangers, says that they are probably planning on attacking the Marines. Luffy declines the accusation and Sanji brings some soup out for the boy. The boy accepts after a moment of observation and happily enjoys it, then he introduces himself as Taijo, one of the probationary cooks for the Marines.
Prior to falling off of the boat, Taijo explains that recently he was carrying a pot full of soup when he tripped over a broom and spilled it. He apologized to the Chef who told him to make another one if he truly meant it. Taijo agreed but he wasn't able to make it very good and Nami asks him if he has any experience. He answers her by saying that it has only been six months since he started as a probationary cook. Sanji says that it is long enough for him to have learned something. Taijo disagrees and reveals that this entire time he has only been washing dishes and peeling some items, he's never made actual food yet. He then adds that the soup wasn't being prepared for any ordinary lunch, but a special lunch consisting of all Marine Captains. Sanji tells him to just apologize again, but Taijo reveals that if he doesn't make a new soup he will be kicked off of the ship. Luffy asks why he can't just cook on land and Nami asks if this particular ship means anything. The boy smiles and asks if any of them have heard of the All Blue, which interests Sanji as the boy explains what he knows about it to them.
After Nami says that he should head back to his ship, Sanji offers to help him out, then he asks Luffy to lend them a hand in returning to the ship. Luffy stretches his arms as Nami questions Sanji about helping and he explains that he just wants to check out the Gally on the Marine Ship. They hold onto Luffy and like a sling shot he shoots them towards the ship; but when he decides to join them Sanji angrily asks for an explanation. Luffy responds by asking Sanji how he planned on returning to the ship without him. Taijo then shows Sanji where the Gally is and Sanji takes note of how expensive everything looks. Suddenly, hearing a noise nearby, Taijo approaches the pantry to find Luffy making himself comfortable with the various items and when Sanji asks him what he was doing, he lies and claims that he was exploring. Before he can leave Sanji forces him to empty his pockets. He then begins to tell Taijo about his time when he was younger, back when he had the same job as him. His chef told him that he will never learn anything by doing the chores all the time and this makes Taijo realize that the Chef didn't teach him not because he didn't want to, but because he wanted him to learn through observation. Taijo recalls that the Chef was making curry and he starts to remember the steps to make it.
Meanwhile, Luffy admires the huge ship's mast, touching it until he hears two Marines approaching. To avoid detection he pulls himself to the very top and hangs from it until they pass.
Taijo is able to slowly remember everything the Chef did to prepare the curry and he slowly makes some, having Sanji try it. Sanji gives critique and reminds him that cooking cannot be rushed, which makes Taijo remember the Chef explaining the process to him with fine detail. He tries to use this to improve the curry, but Sanji spots another mistake, and he assists him with some advice.
It's then Luffy gets spotted by a Marine that is on lookout.
With a little more help, Taijo prepares the curry perfectly and he thanks Sanji as they spot Luffy currently being chased. He stretches out his arms and prepares to leave as Sanji tells Taijo that he thinks the Great All Blue is out there too, then he holds onto Luffy allowing them to escape before the Marines can arrive. Taijo smiles as the Marines approach to ask if he saw anyone suspicious. He claims he didn't and suggests that the fog might have been playing tricks on their eyes.
Luffy and Sanji are back with the Crew and Nami gets mad that Luffy got caught by the Marines as this could have gotten them into trouble. Usopp angrily chews him out for damaging the Going Merry and reminds him that they need to be more careful with it.

The Straw Hats arrive at Fireworks Island just in time for its annual fireworks festival. The locals explain that the tradition of the festival has been going on for 400 years and is carried on by a family who lives on top of the mountain on the island, although now it is just an old man and his granddaughter. This reminds Usopp that they need gunpowder, so he sets off to the mountain to get some from the old man.
Usopp reaches the mountain and is immediately sent away by the old man, Odama, since the latter has no time for a "novice firework maker" like him, especially on the day of the festival. Usopp tries to convince him by showing Odama a firework of his own making but is instead stunned at the humongous firework inside the old man's home.
Kodama arrives and inspects Usopp's firework and compliments it and encourages Usopp to "finish it."
Meanwhile, Odama admonishes Kodama for wasting time and sends her off to finish her tasks for the festival. He then orders Usopp to help Kodama, which Usopp reluctantly does after the young girl asks him to help.
The two bond and Kodama once again compliments Usopp's firework and tells him to "finish it." She explains that any firework is considered unfinished until it blossoms beautifully in the night sky. Usopp then mentions the huge firework he saw earlier and how he would like to see it go off. Kodama explains that a year ago, they tried to fire a similarly huge firework, but the equipment was flawed and there was an accident which killed both of her parents.
Suddenly, the rain starts again, and Kodama mentions that the party cannot proceed if it continues to rain. Nonetheless, Odama tells them to continue with the preparations.
Kodama tells Usopp that if the weather allows it, she plans on launching the huge firework at the night of the festival. This flusters Usopp as he thinks she cannot launch such a big firework by herself. She assures him that the launch team will help her setup the firework but she will fire it up by herself so everyone else will be safe. She says that their family used to have the technical skills to make and launch 200-gauge shells but somewhere along the way they lost these skills and that it was her parents' dream to revive the tradition and bring back those skills. She then asks Usopp to distract her grandfather while she and the launch team carry the shell away.
However, Odama finds out about Kodama's plan from the launch team and forbids his granddaughter from launching the shell. Kodama runs away and Odama tells everyone else to prepare for the festival.
Usopp notices something about the tower in the old man's home and asks him if it has been there for 400 years. He then says that he has a hunch that he wants to share with him.
Usopp then finds Kodama in the cemetery where her parents are buried. Usopp makes her realize that her parents' dream is not just about launching a 200-gauge shell, but that she is their dream. Their dream is that she carries on the family tradition and becomes a master pyrotechnist. He tells her that while it would be great to bring back their old family tradition, her parents just want her to be safe and sound.
The rain suddenly stops and this gets the girl's spirits up. The festival proceeds and fireworks are displayed in the night sky. Odama then reveals that Usopp was able to devise a pulley system to haul the 200-gauge shell towards the tower in the old man's home. Furthermore, it is revealed that the said tower is actually a 400-year-old launch platform of their family's 200-gauge shells. Usopp and Odama prepare to launch the shell after all the other fireworks have been ignited. As Kodama fires her last one, Usopp "finishes" his firework and then has Odama light up the 200-gauge shell which blossoms throughout the island in a gigantic finish.
Kodama sees this and is even more inspired to become a great pyrotechnist. Usopp uses this opportunity to ask for some gunpowder once again and Odama at first says no as Usopp could be a pirate for all he knows, but he then relents.

The episode begins on an island where a very exhausted Zoro wanders around.
A group of pirates are seen laughing at a bar named W Brothers. The head of the table is a bandit named Billy, who proclaims he will "drink this bar dry" with the other pirates questioning him. Yosaku notices Billy and finds out his 5,000,000 bounty. Johnny is shown to be very reluctant and tells Yosaku, who tries to counter Johnny saying that they can't just take the small guys forever. However, Johnny is still persistent not wanting to risk instant death. 
Just then, Zoro enters the pub very exhausted and sits down wanting food. The owner tells Zoro off since he has no money to pay. Zoro however says he'll pay once he "collects the bounty from the guy sitting behind me." Billy, very angry to hear this, gets up and charges at Zoro. Zoro quickly opens his katana slightly and counters the sword. Zoro, very hungry, asks about Billy's bounty and Billy confirms the 5,000,000 on his head. With the information given Zoro quickly finishes him off in the chest. He now has the money he needs to eat.
Johnny and Yosaku, very frightened from the ordeal, question if the stranger is the "Infamous Pirate Hunter guy" describing him as the 3-sword wielding demon that took the form as a human. Quickly brushing off the rumors they approach Zoro asking him to follow the Bounty Hunter rules and hand over the dead body of Billy because they spotted him first. Zoro ignores, making Johnny annoyed in the process.
Zoro then stops and asks them if they've heard of Hawk Eyes Mihawk. They answer in approval and Zoro explains to them that he is searching for Mihawk so he can defeat him and become the "Greatest Swordsman" in the world. He then clarifies he claims bounties only in order to eat, therefore he is no "bounty hunter". Yosaku scoffs at Zoro calling his goal an impossible task. Zoro ignores those comments saying he already made up his mind because it was his "childhood dream" and nobody can ever change his mind. This comment leaves Johnny in shock. Zoro gets up and apologizes for his intrusion on "taking their bounty" and lets them have it. Of course, if they pay the bill for his meal.
After turning in the bounty, Yosaku is seen to be very happy as they now get to lay off the bounty hunting for awhile and be able to eat more nicely. Johnny, still remembering his conversation with the stranger, asks Yosaku "Why he became a Bounty Hunter." Yosaku, confused, answers back, "To Eat." But Johnny explains to him that he became a Bounty Hunter because he yearned to be like the brave Hunters that protected his poor village from the pirates that attacked it. His talk with the stranger made him remember about his own childhood dream. Yosaku laughs it off saying it's not like him.
Suddenly, the villagers in the town are running in fear closing the windows and running away. One of the villagers tell him that the infamous Dick Bandits are attacking the storage at the edge of town. Yosaku scrolls through the papers and find out he has a bounty of 10,000,000. 
At the edge of town, Dick breaks open the storage facilities with his massive Pistol and his group of bandits loot the goods. Johnny and Yosaku arrive at the scene with all the frightened villagers. All the villagers are too afraid to reclaim the stolen goods fearing their death. As the Bandits empty the storage Dick becomes very arrogant proclaiming only idiots try to oppose his mighty self. Suddenly he gets hit by a hammer. A boy named Harry tries to attack Dick but to no avail. However the boy won't give up. This makes Johnny reminiscent of his childhood and convinces Yosaku to go on the offense. They charge at Dick, now face to face with him. 
Dick shows no fear to the duo. Saying they aren't worth his time and would rather pay them to buzz off. Johnny proclaims he would rather fight for justice. This makes the Bandits laugh. Johnny pleads for Yosaku to fight with him. Yosaku, with a sense of bravery, agrees to the offer. Yosaku then brags how they turned in the 5,000,000 bounty over to the Marines. This causes Dick to stop laughing and get angry at them since it turns out Billy was Dick's younger brother.
Meanwhile, as the fight begins in the distance, we pan to Zoro walking up the steps to a swordsmith. He walks up to the sweating man and asks if his Meitou has been repaired. He compliments the swordsman for his impressive workmanship. The swordsmith adds on saying it wasn't very easy as Zoro handles his Katanas way too hard and the other two katanas he used are shown to be shattered. He then has a flashback to the time he challenged and fought Kuina. Zoro offers to repay the swordsmith but is denied as it's not everyday you get to see such a beautiful sword. Zoro hands back the long sword, that he had used prior to kill Billy, but the sword shatters right in front of the swordsmith. He scoffs saying Zoro would break every katana he touches. Zoro, with regret, promises to pay him back somehow. As this happens a huge gunshot can be heard. Zoro is informed that the Bandit Mountain Whale Dick has arrived and has a 10,000,000 bounty on him. Zoro is then showing relief as how he can pay the swordsmith back. 
Cutting back to the fight, Harry, the little boy, watches in horror as the duo try to fight Dick to no avail as he keeps knocking them back before they could reach him. Even still they get back up to charge at him with determination. Dick questions how they could have taken out his little brother. They reply that they only turned him in. The two bounty hunters charge back one more time, for being called weak, before being knocked out to the ground very weak and worn out. Harry gets mad and charges only to get hit. Dick's crew reports back saying they loaded everything onto the cart. Dick, now out of patience, declares he's had enough with such "weak punks." Johnny and Yosaku gets back up as Johnny proclaims that he would risk his life to prevent the Bandits from getting away. This leaves an impact on Harry. Dick, running out of patience, asks his crew to finish them off. Harry is knocked away by one of the bandits landing in front of Zoro's feet. The bandits then beat up Johnny and Yosaku. Harry gets back up but is stopped by Zoro. He tells Harry to think of what he can do before attacking. 
As Johnny and Yosaku are badly hurt and thrown to the ground Dick tells them that they had bad luck and he earned nothing from this fight. One of the Bandits picks up a sword and charges to kill them but is interrupted by Zoro's blade. Johnny and Yosaku recognize Zoro and he asks if it's okay to take their bounty again as he needs the money, with them approving. Zoro then ties his bandana on his head as Dick slowly recognizes him. The two also recognize the katana with a white scabbard (Wado Ichimonji). Zoro asks Johnny and Yosaku if he can borrow their katanas. They slowly agree and realize Zoro's identity. Dick doubts Zoro would be able to take out his men even using three swords. Zoro points out there is a difference between "using three swords" and "practicing three sword style". As the Bandits charge at Zoro he swiftly defeats all of them at once. Zoro looks back at the bodies only to have Dick charge at him from behind and pull the trigger.
As the bang happens, we finally cut back to the present to where a big mountain gets blown to bits with Usopp firing next to everyone on board. Zoro comes back to his senses sneezing. As he sneezes, Robin comes in with a jacket. Due to being suspicious of her, Zoro grabs tightly to his Wado Ichimonji, guarding it. He reminds Robin that she can't stand beside him. She tries saying that he'll catch a cold. Zoro declines saying people who catch colds have weak hearts. Robin then reminds him of the Pirate Hunter Zoro name. He then tells her he never called himself that. Robin asks who gave him that name. He replies saying he doesn't know and it has nothing to do with him. Another cannon fire is heard as Robin walks back to reading The Rainbow Mist book.
We then cut back to when Dick fires at Zoro with Harry flying in with a Water Bucket, cancelling the gunshot. Zoro uses the opportunity to slash Dick. Zoro examines the borrowed katanas and is relieved they aren't broken. He thanks Harry for helping him. After the commotion both Johnny and Yosaku are in awe of Zoro and ask him to join forces with them. Zoro shrugs and tells them why not. Johnny and Yosaku celebrate.

The Straw Hat Pirates are being chased by the Marines and are trying to avoid them, as they are constantly firing cannonballs towards their ship. With the Straw Hat Pirates being low on food supplies, they are all starving, wondering if they are going to starve to death. A huge fog appears, which Nami believes can be used to their advantage to escape from the Marines. The Marine ships starts crashing into each other as they are hitting the barely visible rocks on the surface which just appeared after the fog. Chief Petty Officer Minchey orders his men to turn back because of the danger for the Marines. As the Straw Hat Pirates pass the thick fog and the rocks they see an uncharted island, hoping to find food on it. An old man is sighted with his binocular, counting the Straw Hat Pirates as six humans and an animal.
As the Straw Hat Pirates walk up from the shore, they spot a young goat, directly clarifying it as food. As they try to hunt it down, Nami stops them, stating that it shouldn't be eaten. Suddenly, a mob of angry full-grown goats have surrounded the Straw Hat Pirates. When the goats start attacking, Zoro brings out his sword, indicating that he will kill them but Chopper tells him not to due to the fact that they aren't bad, thanks to his ability to speak with animals. Chopper is trying to reason with the goats and finds out that someone ordered the goats to attack. Suddenly, an old man falls out of a tree pointing out the now transformed Chopper as a monster. They found out that this is the man who ordered the goats to attack.  
The old man passes out, from the fear of being cut by Zoro's blade as he is trying to free him from the branches that he has gotten stuck in.  They take him to his shed, where Chopper is getting him treated. As the old man is craving them to repay him for what they have done, Luffy finally says to help him out. On Zoro's hunt for food he finds a strange pirate ship, which he later in the evening tells the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates about after he returned with fruits as food. They all go to the ship to investigate it further. Nami states that he was once a pirate who is trying to escape the island with that pirate ship, which is more of a wreck than a ship. She also believes he has a hidden treasure somewhere on the island.
Meanwhile, at Marine Captain Moore's base, Captain Moore tells Minchey to organize a landing party and to locate and eliminate the Straw Hat Pirates. On the island, Chopper find out that the old man has less than three days to live, due to a disease. Therefore, the next day, Sanji is making him a big dinner because of the few days he has left so that he can enjoy his last moments. At the Marine Base, they find out that the old man's name is Zenny and that he was washed ashore on the island 20 years ago with his believed huge treasure.

The Straw Hat Pirates are busy repairing the wrecked ship and Zoro is busy chopping down trees by axe. The chopped wood is then being passed on by goats to each other towards Chopper. While carrying the chopped wood, Zenny makes exclamations about the slow work of the Straw Hat crew. To calm him, Nami makes Zenny sit on a chair and Robin offers a shoulder massage. Sanji asks him about why the ship is on the top of the mountain to which he says that this ship is his coffin. The Straw Hats are astonished and ask him if it is too early to have a coffin. He replies by saying he will be needing a coffin anyway eventually. Sanji asks him why his coffin is a pirate ship and Zenny starts dozing off, but the Straw Hat Pirates think that he has died and start shouting to which Nami points them to be quiet as he is only dozing off.
At a Marine base, Marines learn that both the Straw Hats and Zenny are at the same island. Keeping in mind the bounties of Luffy and Zoro, Sergeant Minchey suggests a plan to assure victory.
At the island, Zenny is playing chess with Nami and he is getting all the services from massages to delicious cheese. Luffy, Usopp, and Zoro return with caught fish for dinner and assure Zenny of any services he asks for. Zenny exclaims how he is living a paradise. Zoro thinks about it and says that he should have died by now as three days have already passed. The Straw Hats think of leaving the island as Zenny seems in better health than when they arrived.
Nami keeps on losing to Zenny in chess and in the hope of getting details about the treasure, she bets everything including the ship. Consequently, they owe him service for 10 more years to get their ship back. Usopp suggests bolting out but Luffy refuses, saying a bet is a promise and he will not break any promises. During all the ruckus going on about leaving, Robin checkmates Zenny and wins the ship back. Being delighted on meeting such joyful prates, Zenny decides to have a party.
At the party, Nami tries to get the old man drunk to learn about the true location of the treasure to which he jokes about the goats being his real treasure. Later, he says he was a money lender to pirates and was known as the money lender Zenny. This revelation came as a surprise to Usopp as pirates don't usually return the money they take. He talks about how the pirates were not returning the loaned money, so he always went face to face with them to get his money back.
Recalling his past, Zenny was on a ship and was asking for his money back or else he would sink the ship by bombing it.
After talking about his past, he talks about his dream of becoming the Pirate King and how his ship got destroyed by pirates 20 years ago causing him to drift to this island. He thought of building a ship but wasn't able to bring the wood beside the sea, so he built his ship on the mountains. By the time he had completed the ship, he had gotten too old to sail the Grand Line. However, Luffy suggests that no one is too old to become the Pirate King.
The Marines are on their way and are thinking of luring the Straw Hat Pirates out of the island while Zenny is thinking about what Luffy said to him.
When morning comes, Chopper exclaims about seeing the Marine ship and the Straw Hats start running to the shore and are confronted by Sergeant Minchey. He says he came with only one ship just to inspect the island and Zenny and the Straw Hat Pirates should leave immediately as other Marines might come for them. In reality, a huge Marine fleet is hiding in the fog behind them so that they can attack the pirates when they leave. The Straw Hats easily look through this trick and get ready to attack but are stopped as Usopp is captured and are asked to drop their weapons. They do as they are told, and the Marines now try to shoot at them and at the same time, Zenny unloads his ship from the mountain top.

Zenny spots a fleet of Marine ships and realizes that a trap has been set up against the Straw Hats. Zenny decides to "sail down" the mountain using his ship to help them. Zenny sees that he is now at sea and he declares that he has officially become a pirate.
While the Marines are distracted, the Straw Hats head towards the Going Merry. A Marine sees this and asks Minchey to inform their captain that the pirates are up to something. Minchey shoots at him and reminds him they cannot tell their captain what's going on if they wanted to steal the old man's treasure.
Zenny realizes that the chief petty officer has been paying off his men so they can go on his side projects and mocks him. He challenges him that if he wanted his treasure, he would have to take it himself. Zenny then sends his goats to attack the Marine ship and chaos ensues.
The chaos proves to be too much for Zenny and he experiences chest pains. Minchey kicks him and grills him about the treasure's location. Zenny confesses that he is broke and that he has no treasure. Minchey doesn't believe him and decides to just search the whole island instead of waiting for the old man to tell him the treasure's location.
Before Minchey can kill Zenny, Robin throws an abacus at Minchey and the goats trample him. The Going Merry reaches Zenny and Chopper rushes to give him medical attention. With Minchey captured and everybody safe, Nami asks Zenny about his treasure. Zenny reveals that he exchanged all his treasure for cash. He was attacked by pirates and ended up marooned on the island. When he came to, the goats had eaten all his cash and left him with nothing which is why he considers the goats his treasure.
They then send Minchey flying back to the Marine fleet. Moore strips him of his rank and calls him a disgrace. He then calls Luffy and tells him that he has no interest in capturing Zenny. And that while he wants to capture the Straw Hats, he also wants to pay a debt of honor for delivering up a disgraced member of his fleet. He allows them to choose where they will fight. Luffy accepts and heads out to meet the Marine fleet. He then unintentionally leads the fleet to a foggy reef area which causes the Marine ships to sink.
Zenny goes back to the island to repair his ship and decides to sail off to sea after the repairs. The Straw Hats have set up Zenny's supplies and medicine so he will be able to head out when he is ready. Zenny decides that his age will not stop him from becoming a pirate and that he will go on adventures so long as he is able to.
As the crew worry about him, Luffy assures them that the old timer will be fine and Zoro agrees as he thinks while Zenny did have a weak heart, he had plenty of guts to make up for it.

The episode starts off with the Straw Hat Pirates being chased by Rapanui Pasqua's fleet of 9 Marine ships. Rapanui Pasqua throw's a coin, also called a "Finger Bomb" which take's down most Pirate ships, but he sneezed before using his attack, which hit another Marine ship. Nami tells the rest of the crew to start speeding ahead of the Marine fleet because of the broken formation, where they then stop at Ruluka. Chopper sees a massive tower and the Crew follow him only to be stopped by a Tax Collector who shouts at Nami. Sanji steps up to defend Nami but Luffy with all his hunger charges through them and runs over both the Tax Collector and Sanji. Usopp and Robin spot Henzo, who wants to talk about the Rainbow Mist so he invites them to a local restaurant.
Usopp starts a discussion about the Rainbow Mist. Henzo talks about how long he has been researching about the Mist and then Robin shows him a book from Arabasta. The cook and another random man talk to them about how he is crazy and stealing their tax money. Then the Tax Collection Squad starts to march towards the restaurant and everyone starts to panic and eat everything quickly. One young man sadly has to pay up since he hadn't finished his liquor, they walk up to Henzo and talk about how he is stealing everyone's taxes, they then walk away but not before spotting Luffy eating a heap of spaghetti. So they tax him for eating a heap of spaghetti, which Usopp has to pay for. They then leave the restaurant, as we cut to Sanji, Nami, and Chopper purchasing item's from a market. The Dynamo Squad jump out to attack them, Sanji tries to use his kick's but since the Dynamo Squad's armor is electric, he gets shocked. Nami and Chopper run for cover as Sanji tries again, but fails. He then uses his Ultimate Tactic, where he runs away, the Dynamo Squad's armor now falls as the wire pulls him back, letting Sanji, Nami and Chopper run away. We then skip back to the rest of the Crew (other then Zoro).
They hear shouting of a galleon appearing at the harbour. Henzo quickly runs to it, so do the rest of the Crew. The Talielisin appears at the harbour. Henzo quickly goes towards it with his H-1 and the crew chase after him. They arrive on the boat with him and they explore the ship. Henzo has a reading of the Rainbow Mist appearing, and it is true, he tries to steal the Going Merry but the Crew try to stop him. He talks about how he has been waiting for this day then charges into the Rainbow Mist, Sanji is furious at Zoro, calling him a mosshead, we cut back to the Going Merry, as they enter Ape's Concert. 

Inside the Rainbow Mist (a mysterious fog that is a portal to another dimension), Henzo and The Straw Hat crew, aside from Sanji, Nami, and Chopper, arrive in Ape's Concert, a pirate ship graveyard within the Rainbow Mist. Robin explains that here beyond the Rainbow Mist is a land of eternity with untold treasures where all of its inhabitants never age. Luffy brings a chest full of treasure on board the Merry and tells everyone there's a lot more on the shipwrecks. A mysterious voice threatens the crew with a curse of the dead if they do not return the treasure and leave right away. Ghosts then suddenly appear and an arrow is shot almost hitting Zoro. Luffy attacks the ghosts finding it is actually children trying to scare off any intruders. A boy named Rapanui announces they are The Pumpkin Pirates and demand the Straw Hats leave or else he will set off a bomb. Henzo recognizes Rapanui and the rest of the children and explains who he is, they're very old friends. Trying to prove himself, Henzo sets off the bomb Rapanui is holding stating that it is just the "Ka-boom Mark 3", an invention of Henzo's that only tricks an opponent. Rapanui sets off a smoke screen and all the children disappear.
As a flashback, Henzo explains to everyone how years ago (as a child himself) the Pumpkin Pirates dreamed of becoming real pirates and tells of a time when their town of Ruluka was attacked and set on fire by The Wetton Pirates. The children flee the town by stealing the Pirates' ship as Captain Wetton and his crewmate Ian chase them. As the children fight off Wetton and Ian, Wetton and Henzo fall overboard and the rest of the children sail directly into the Rainbow Mist never again returning. Understanding now that the Rainbow Mist kept the children from aging, the crew attempts to find a way out of Ape's Concert.
Back in the town of Ruluka, Sanji continues to fight Lake, the grandson of the town's mayor Wetton, over not paying the towns Harbor Taxes. A coin hits Lake in the head knocking him over. He asks Sanji if he was the one that threw the coin at him so Sanji, Nami, and Chopper decide to lie and say it was. Lake picks up the coin and takes that as a payment for the tax to dock their ship in the towns harbor and formally welcomes them to the town. They proceed to the harbor looking for the rest of the crew. Lake tells them that The Going Merry was last seen heading towards Ape's Concert beyond a strange mist in the ocean where a ship graveyard is. He tells them that the mayor has announced all the shipwrecks there have untouched cargo just laying around with jewels and coins and tells them Henzo is employed by the government to research how to safely enter Ape's Concert. Nami tells Sanji and Chopper they need to go inside it to find their friends and hopefully the treasure. Mayor Wetton then walks up and punishes Lake for saying too much and tells them no one is allowed inside the Rainbow Mist without his permission.

The episode starts with a scene in which the Pumpkin Pirates went swimming when suddenly Rapanui Pasqua told them that the treasure of the island is on the top of the rock where their flag stands. When all of them swam very quickly, Henzo was left behind trying to tell them to wait. Rapanui Pasqua turned back and shouted he can't because he is an adult. Henzo's body suddenly turned to the present old appearance he has and the background went hallucinating until Henzo woke up and realized it was all just a dream. Nico Robin saw him awake and figured out that he was dreaming about his friends because he was shouting their names while asleep.
Meanwhile, Luffy and the others are on the outside and Zoro asked Luffy if they are travelling in the right direction. They soon realized they once again passed a statue that they already passed a while ago, they thought they were travelling in circles but in shooting a cannon made all of them realize the space was distorted. Luffy obviously didn't know what it meant so he dared to test it by flying forward to the sky and then came falling back from behind the ship. Luffy told them he gets it and said that it was a "Mystery Mist", obviously not understanding it himself. None of the crew knew how to get out of Ape's Concert, so Robin suggested to ask a boy hiding behind some wreckage, how they might get out by going to the Pumpkin Pirates hideout.
In a Marine ship wreckage, Ian is seen eating in a prison cell with Rongo and Akibi talking to him about how to get out of Ape's Concert as well. Ian tries to convince them that he knows how to get out of Ape's Concert but they should give him the key to his cell first. Isoka knew he was lying and reminded the two how cruel he was to them by forcing them to let him be their leader when previously a Sea King was attacking them he was so afraid that he threw Rongo to fight it. Nearly eaten, Rongo was rescued by Rapanui and after the attack, Ian boasts that they wouldn't be alive if it weren't for him. Their ship got lost because the Sea King smelled the food they kept and they were left on a small boat. In the Marine ship, the buzzer rang and Isoka asked Rapanui what's the danger. Rapanui saw a pirate ship and managed to see Pukau thinking he is being held hostage.
Rapanui immediately went to rescue him and threatened Luffy and the others by swaying his sword until Zoro threw it out. Pukau told Rapanui that he was not a hostage and that they just asked him where their secret hideout is. Rapanui wouldn't believe when Usopp went out holding plates of food attracting both Luffy and Pukau until all of them except Rapanui started eating. In an attempt to offer food, Henzo was denied by Rapanui because he doesn't believe in adults who suddenly appear. Henzo asked for forgiveness because he worked hard to find them but now they are of different ages. Henzo's Den Den Mushi started ringing but Luffy grabbed it and answered it receiving Wetton's voice. On the other side, Sanji grabbed the Den Den Mushi from Wetton and asked if it was Luffy. Upon discovering they talked to each other, Henzo knew the Rainbow Mist and the Outside World wass connected.
Henzo got the phone back and when Rapanui heard Wetton's name he told Henzo that he was not the true Henzo they knew. He said that true Pumpkin Pirates don't work for Wetton. When Nami, Chopper and Sanji decided to go to the Rainbow Mist, Wetton forbid it and said they must pay 10,000,000 beli to be able to be permitted. They didn't want to pay so Wetton told them they would instead work hard labor in the Rainbow tower until their deaths. Nami asked for the safety device and Lake, gullible enough, gave it up and they started running. While Sanji wished that it would be a romantic getaway, Nami's desire for the treasures made her eyes turn into Beli symbol. The 2 prepared to fight when suddenly a Sea King appeared before them and Nami  screamed "What?" ending the episode.

The episode starts in the Marine wreckage with Ian sleeping in his cell when Akibi fell and Pukau telling him that they need to get the things they're holding to "them". Ian wakes up and discovered that someone was coming to bring them back to Ruluka . Ian, surprised, suddenly told them to wait and cried infront of Akibi telling him to let him out. Gullible enough, Akibi agreed and Ian thanked him followed by an evil laugh. Meanwhile, Luffy again propelled himself to the sky followed by Rapanui pushing Henzo still not convinced that he was the real Henzo even if the others told him it was a mistake and that Henzo would never be Wetton's dog. Rapanui reminded them of Wetton's burning of their village and asked Henzo if he forgot those memories in just 50 years. Usopp attempted to convince him by telling him he didn't know what happened to those 50 years and how Henzo suffered in order to save them. He told them that he endured those many backstabs that he experienced but still researched on the Rainbow Mist.
Henzo puts it aside and told Rapanui to punch him and forget about all the pride because he has been living under Wetton's command. Rapanui couldn't punch him and instead cried wondering how 50 years could have passed so suddenly, Usopp told them they are comrades as to reuniting the Pumpkin Pirates. When they were about to shake hands, Luffy suddenly appeared from a portal and grabbed Rapanui and went inside another portal. Nico Robin told them they will be fine because everything in the Rainbow Mist is in a loop but quickly disagreed because it took too long. Henzo told them they should find them and the scene went into a different dimension in which Luffy and Rapanui went. On the other side, a Sea King continues to threaten Nami and Sanji told Wetton they should help her before she gets eaten but Wetton didn't care. Lake recognized they couldn't get to Ape's Concert either because of the Sea King. Flip told her she should use the safety device Henzo invented which is a lifeline but she was too scared at that moment as she was going to be eaten. A Marine Major knocked it out with a coin and then fades away. Nami tied the end of the line to her Clima Tact and she threw the cross portion to Chopper and went into the Mist telling him to pull the line if a signal is given. Wetton said to let her go and the guards shouted he will now change clothes. He changed into his Flame Suit in about just a second. The guards prepared for the suit's requirements but the weakness is obvious because of the shaking in raising the flamethrower of the suit. On the other side, Luffy and Rapanui are running not knowing where to go and Rapanui sat because Luffy was just running because of his instinct. He said he didn't complete his reuniting with Henzo. He was worried that he might be like his Pop when he grows up, he was a Marine Officer and he left him years ago only to discover that his father died. Luffy still wanted to get back so he started walking telling Rapanui they wouldn't find the others without moving. They couldn't find them so Henzo thought they might have come to the Mist's end. Robin was wondering a bit because a shipwreck she estimated was about 200 years old and a rocket debris floating saying she didn't see that recently, she concluded that the Rainbow Mist's time is actually distorted. Nami arrived with some treasures on her rowboat and asked where Luffy was. Usopp and Zoro told her they were gone with Nami surprised. Ian came out with Akibi as hostage but Nami didn't want to save him because she didn't know who he was. This led to Isoka threatening her with a knife and Ian with the two of them went in the rowboat. Isoka aggravated Ian but Akibi got kicked in the waters. Robin held Ian tight with her devil fruit powers and Isoka went to rescue Akibi but Robin got weak because of Kairouseki. Ian escaped and Usopp can't concentrate on shooting him. Meanwhile, Chopper and Sanji are in trouble of being burnt from Wetton forcing Chopper to eat a Rumble Ball but still failed because of Lake. Sanji got caught on a net and got burnt too. When they saw the signal, they did see a rowboat coming back as Sanji was about to kick Wetton when Lake electrocuted him. Ian saw Ruluka Island and was amazed but mistook Lake to be Wetton. Ian was surprised again for discovering that Wetton had already entered third generation and Wetton secretly whispered what was in the Mist. In the Mist, Nami is appreciating the treasures but considered them useless if they can't get out. Henzo knew they would come back because Wetton wants to get all the treasures of Ape's Concert. Usopp told Nami she was a navigator so she should do something. Rapanui and Luffy are already tired of walking when Rapanui fell and remembered how they worked hard on getting out the Mist. Ironically, Rapanui wanted to go back to Ruluka even if he told them they would own Ape's Concert as their paradise. 
Rapanui saw a Marine ship and someone waving looks like his father but the sight turned to a light which they ran to. On the other side, the Rainbow Tower was knocked down and the water that splashed came to Luffy and Rapanui too. The tower then went straight to the Mist horizontally. The sea inside the Mist got rough and then Henzo saw the Rainbow tower. Rapanui and Luffy got back to Ruluka and Rapanui concluded that they are invading Ape's Concert. The entrance of the tower in the Mist opened and the guards arrived from the other side by the tower's tunnel-like conveyor belt. Wetton told the guards to get all Ape's Concert's treasures laughing evilly ending the episode.

The Straw Hat Pirates notice some debris falling from the sky, initially thinking it was rain. Suddenly, an entire wrecked ship falls from the sky causing huge waves rocking the Going Merry after almost hitting it. When the seas have calmed down the Crew tries to figure out how a ship could fall from the sky. Nami then notices that her log pose is pointing towards the sky, thinking that it is broken. Robin suggests that the log pose isn't broken but is merely registering an island with strong magnetic pull further suggesting that it must be pointing towards Sky Island.
The Straw Hats are both in disbelief and excitement. Robin explains that Sky Island isn't exactly just an island in a sky, but rather, an entire ocean. Luffy tells them to set their course towards Sky Island but Sanji points out that they can't actually fly. Robin goes on to admit that her knowledge about the island is based solely on word of mouth and that she has never actually seen it. Nami thinks that the whole thing is made up and insists that their log pose is simply broken. Robin then argues that instead of trying to fix something that isn't broken, they should try to find a way to get to Sky Island. She further says that in the Grand Line, one must not doubt their log pose no matter how crazy things get, stating that this is the most steadfast, unbreakable rule in the Grand Line. 
Robin proceeds to study the skull of one of the sailors from the ship that just fell from the sky while Luffy and Usopp investigate the wreckage. After piecing together the skull, Robin sees that it has been punctured from an ancient medical procedure called craterization and deduces that the man must have been dead for at least 200 years. She further deduces that the ship must be St. Briss, an exploration ship from the South Blue. 
Meanwhile, as the ship is sinking, Luffy starts drowning. After being pulled up, he announces that he found a map of Skypiea within the wreckage. Nami inspects the map and remains skeptical since it could be a fake treasure map, further pointing out that even if it were real, the map doesn't show them how to get to the Sky Island. In order to get more information on how to get to Sky Island, Nami proposes that they salvage the ship that has now sunk to the bottom of the ocean. Sanji, Zoro and Luffy volunteer to go, using special barrels attached to the Merry designed by Usopp which allows them to breathe underwater. 
While the trio is descending towards the shipwreck, a pirate ship arrives to where the ship has sunk. The captain of the ship introduces himself as Masira, Captain of the Masira Pirates and declares that the sunken ship is now the property of the King of All Salvagers. He orders his crew to raise the ship. Masira notices the presence of the Straw Hats and warns them about stealing "his ship" since, according to him, all ships that sink in the area are his property. The Straw Hats decide not to tell Masira that they have already sent a team to the shipwreck and also decide not to stop him from raising the ship. Nami uses her charms to avoid suspicion from Masira and he starts to try to impress her.
As Masira's crew is setting the cradle to raise the sunken ship, they ascend beaten up and unable to talk. However, Masira still does not suspect The Straw Hats. Underwater, Luffy, Zoro and Sanji have made it to the wreckage and start to explore, during which time, Masira is able to set the cradle and starts raising the ship. The St. Briss starts to fill up with air and ascends but the Masira Pirates start to encounter problems caused by Luffy's group. Masira decides to investigate this himself and swims under. He finds the trio inside and asks them what they were doing in his territory. Instead of answering, Luffy simply states that he (Masira) looks like a monkey, which Masira takes as a compliment thereby losing aggression towards the group. While they are exchanging pleasantries, a gigantic turtle suddenly eats the St. Briss and surfaces beside the Going Merry.

A turtle-like Sea King surfaces near Nami and the crew. The Masira Pirates are also frightened and scream for their captain, who is underwater confronting Luffy. Robin finds that the air hoses of the crew's diving suit were in the monster's mouth and deduces that Luffy, Sanji and Zoro were eaten by the monster. The monster pulls the Going Merry via its air hoses and tries to pull it underwater and Nami was about to cut the hoses to free the ship but the sky suddenly changes to night.
The Masira Pirates fear that the sudden change of the time of day was a bad omen, and that they should reel their captain in immediately. Luffy surfaces unconscious, and Zoro and Sanji both surface soon later. They all suggest to set sail and leave immediately, but Masira hops on their ship and prevents them from leaving. However, one of the Masira Pirates points out that, to the horror of the Straw Hat Pirates, the sudden night was caused by giangantic creatures blocking the sun. The Straw Hat Pirates flee.
Later, Masira is seen briefly on the Going Merry before the Straw Hat Pirates kick him off. Nami is disappointed that Luffy, Zoro and Sanji did not find any clues about Skypiea during the salvage. Sanji points out that the ship looked as if it were attacked, or it had been destroyed by battle. Then, Robin reveals that she had taken an Eternal Pose from the Masira Pirates for an island called Jaya. So, Luffy commands his crew to turn the ship to Jaya to ask others about Skypiea. They soon realize, however, that they cannot stay in Jaya for too long or else the Log Pose will adapt and point elsewhere and they will lose their chance at finding the Sky Island.
Meanwhile, Mohji and Cabaji are on an island resembling a skull. They are searching for the treasure of Captain John. However, they fail to find any treasure. Back on the ship, Buggy reveals a plan that involves waiting for Luffy to gain a reputation on the Grand Line so Buggy can receive a greater reputation by defeating him.
Portgas D. Ace appears on Buggy's ship, intimidating Cabaji. Ace suddenly falls asleep and Mohji suggests taking Ace out while he is asleep, but Buggy refuses to harm Ace out of fear of what Ace's boss, Whitebeard, would do in retaliation. Ace wakes up soon and starts a party on Buggy's ship. Meanwhile, the Straw Hat Pirates continue traveling towards Jaya.

In a bar, Roshio and Bellamy are gambling and Roshio wins. However, Bellamy refuses to accept defeat and insists that Roshio cheated by having Sarquiss bear false witness. Roshio tries to fight Bellamy but he is defeated easily. The Straw Hats were still at sea and trying to locate Jaya when Chopper commented about the Seagulls flying above; then suddenly the Seagulls fall and Chopper states they were shot. Usopp comments that only an extraordinary marksman would be able to have shot them and it is more likely that the shots were random. Van Augur, siting on a roof somewhere in Jaya, is revealed to have shot the birds and comments on their fate.
Meanwhile at Mock Town, Jesus Burgess is seen challenging a man to a fight and he defeats his opponent. One of the onlookers comments to him that the man he defeated is one of Roshio's men, judging by the mark on his head band. Meanwhile at the bar, two men are discussing how Roshio was defeated, with the false excuse that he cheated, and one of them recognizes the man who had defeated Roshio to be Bellamy.
The Straw Hats finally arrive at Mock Town. Luffy and Zoro left the ship and Nami accompanied them after considering that they would cause trouble which will get them kicked out of the town. Such a turn of events would disrupt their information gathering for the Sky Island. To avoid that, she made them promise that they would not start a fight with anyone. While on their way, Doc Q fell in their path and asked for assistance in getting up. Luffy and Zoro got him on his horse, Stronger. He thanked them saying he was born with a weak body and brought out a basket of apples and asked them to choose one. Zoro indicated that it was suspicious. However, Luffy went ahead and helped himself to one apple. Shortly after Luffy took a bite of the apple, an explosion erupted nearby because some people had eaten apples with explosives. Doc Q then stated that Luffy is a lucky man for choosing the apple that is a dud. On the ship, Chopper, Usopp and Sanji notice that Robin also left, without them realizing it.
Still trying to inquire information, Luffy, Zoro, and Nami went past Jesus Burgess who is growling, standing on the roof of a building. The people comment that he's got many victims without a bounty on his head and it is best to stay away from the wrestling champion. On hearing this, Luffy and Zoro become competitive but Nami squashed the competitive fuel in them to avoid a fight. They reach Tropical Hotel with the intention of gathering information. However, Spector, the hotel manager, refuses them because the Bellamy Party has rented the entire place and no other customers are allowed. This reveals Spector's fear of Bellamy.
Sarquiss returns at the hotel and upon seeing Luffy, Zoro, and Nami, he comments that they are shabby-looking kids. Luffy asks if he should kick Sarquiss's butt but Nami and Spector yell "no". Sarquiss throws some money at them saying they should use that to buy themselves some clothes. Luffy gets excited and he is ready to take the money when Nami drags him away. They reach a restaurant and Nami is complaining about the town when the bartender tells her that since many rich pirates come to Mock Town to unload their wealth, brawls and murder occur frequently. While conversing with Nami, Luffy, and Blackbeard comment on the cherry pie and the drink. They have opposite opinions on the food and they are close to starting a fight because of this. Blackbeard asks if Luffy is a pirate and Luffy replies that he is. He then asks for Luffy's bounty and when he learns that it is 30,000,000, he disbelieves it. He left the bar somewhat disappointed.
Bellamy and his crew come into the store and Bellamy inquires if this is Straw Hat Luffy with the 30,000,000 bounty. He buys Luffy a drink which Luffy accepts saying Bellamy is a good guy. While Luffy is having his drink, Bellamy smashes Luffy's head into the bar table. Immediately, Zoro and Luffy get ready to fight. Nami tells them to stop and asks the bartender if he has any information regarding the Sky Island. People in the bar are dumbfounded and break into laughter. To her defense, Nami says that the log pose points upwards but the people continue to laugh saying the log pose is broken. Bellamy says that they should not believe the cock-and-bull story about an island in the Sky and that only ignorant sailors ride the knock-up stream only to fall back down. He says all dreams could be explained and the age where pirates dreamed is over. He also mocks the people who die while chasing their dreams and he says that they give him an upset stomach. Luffy who had his fist clenched, releases it when he hears Bellamy's statement and even goes as far as allowing Bellamy to punch him. Nami tells Luffy and Zoro to forget about the promise and fight Bellamy and his crew. Luffy then tells Zoro that they are not going to fight them.

It opens in the bar where Bellamy is still hitting Luffy and Zoro and the bar customers are laughing saying the town is not for dream loving pirates like Luffy and his crew. Nami is angry that Luffy and Zoro are not fighting back since they could easily defeat those guys. After much beating, Bellamy ordered someone get Luffy and Zoro from his sight stating they are eyesores. They were kicked out of the bar. Sarquiss offered to buy Nami stating that she would not survive the new era with those guys. Nami responded saying she is too good to join a team of pansies like Bellamy's crew. They responded laughing and saying the crew is full of weaklings. Nami grabbed Luffy and was walking down the street when someone yelled out saying Sky Island exists. Nami recognized Blackbeard and he told her that Luffy and Zoro won the fight and her tongue lashing was impressive as well. He said the new era Bellamy talks about is rubbish. He went on saying that people's dreams never end and if Luffy seeks the Summit, he would find fights that fists alone would not take him to. Blackbeard left saying he hopes Luffy finds Sky Island.
Returning to the ship, the rest of the Straw Hat crew inquired as to why Luffy and Zoro look so beat up. Nami still very angry at what occurred at the bar asked why they could not fight back. Zoro stated that she had mentioned something earlier about that and Nami, still angry, said it was in the past. Chopper asked if they found anything related to the Sky Island and Nami stated she does not care about that anymore and just mentioning about Sky Island made the whole bar mock her. Robin returned and gave Luffy a map stating that a man was outcast for talking about his dreams.
On their way to find the man, they came across Shoujou. Luffy voiced that Shoujou looked weird and the Shoujou pirates took offense to that however, Shoujou brushed it off. Shoujou went ahead and told Luffy that a Warlord named Crocodile has been kicked off and he (Shoujou) is awaiting his invitation to join the Warlords of the Sea. Luffy told Shoujou to move aside because they had a place to go. Shoujou became upset and said that this area was his territory and if they want to pass by, they have to pay the toll fee. On hearing that, Usopp recognized that Masira had said the same thing. Shoujou heard Masira's name and asked what about Masira. Luffy responded saying they sort off kicked him but he is probably alive. Shoujou got very angry and began to use his Havoc Sonar. However, doing this, Shoujou was destroying his ship as well as the Straw Hats'. The Straw Hats fled from the reach of his voice.
Meanwhile, back at the bar, a customer was talking about how a beautiful and strong woman was inquiring about Mont Blanc Cricket. Another responded saying that sea territory belonged to the Saruyama brother but Cricket is known to have acquired a new gold treasure. On hearing this, Bellamy asked where the man was located and would like to meet him. He demanded to be told more.

Usopp tries repairing the damages from the sonar attack but the crew keeps talking about replacing the ship. Usopp gets mad, asking them if they remember how they got the ship in the first place. Luffy tells Usopp not to complain and that the ship is part of the crew and that it needs to be fixed. That was before he hit a hole in the ship, making Usopp angry again. Nami looks at the map explaining that they are headed east by circling the island on their way to visit Mont Blanc Cricket. Luffy and Usopp are shocked to see a huge carnival palace looking house. However, it's revealed that the magnificent looking palace is just a cutout with a much smaller house behind it. Nami asks why he was outcast, and Robin explains that it might have something to do with him suggesting finding gold. Nami is thrilled by the idea of finding gold and puts Chopper to work by digging around. Luffy goes into the house to find no one there. Nami finds a very old children's book titled "Noland the Liar" from the North Blue. Usopp likes the title and Sanji reveals that he is from the North Blue but grew up in the East Blue, stating how the book is famous in the North. He also says that the book was based on a man who existed a long time ago. 
Story: 400 years ago, there lived a man named Mont Blanc Noland who lived in a North Blue country. As an explorer, he talked about his adventures even though the villagers couldn't decide whether to believe him or not. One day, he reported to the king after his travels and told him that he found a mountain of gold on an island in the middle of the sea. The king set sail to see if the story was true, taking 2,000 soldiers and Noland. After harsh waves and battling monsters, only the King, Noland, and 100 soldiers remained. But all that was on the island was a jungle. The king sentenced Noland to death for lying, with his last words being "The mountain of gold must have sank into the sea!", but no one believed him. 
Back at the pub, the pirates are laughing at the fact that Mont Blanc Cricket is a descendant of Mont Blanc Noland, saying that he must not be right in the head if he wants to clear his 400-year ancestors name by finding a few pieces of gold. Back with the Straw Hats, Luffy sees bubbles coming from the water, but is disappointed when nothing happens. Nami teases Usopp by saying that Noland died before he became "a great warrior of the sea". Luffy is suddenly dragged into the sea as a large man with little blond hair and a "Maroon" tattoo jumps out of the water. Sanji runs towards the mysterious fellow while telling Usopp to get Luffy out of the water. The man, who we believe to be Mont Blanc Cricket, shoots Sanji in the face, but it actually missed. Just as Zoro is about to enter the fight, the Cricket drops his pistol and falls to the ground. Usopp gets Luffy up to the surface while he explains what happened. The crew takes the man into his house while Chopper doctors him up. Chopper explains that he has Caisson Disease, which is something divers get, but it's not long-lasting, however it can become fatal if the person exerts themself too much. In the background there is a picture of the man and the two monkey pirate brothers smiling.
The two monkey brothers, both in good health, come bursting into the home asking if the "old-timer" is ok. Usopp and Chopper freak out when the brothers ask what they're doing to him, but Luffy says they are taking of care of him and that they should leave. The brothers are glad that the Straw Hats are nice. The brothers reveal that the house is the headquarters of the Saruyama Alliance. Cricket comes to and apologizes for assuming they were after the gold. Luffy asks him about Sky Island but gets laughed at instead. He explains that no one knows for sure if it's there, except for the man everyone calls a liar. Luffy keeps looking at Usopp, but he says that it's not him. It's revealed that Cricket is indeed a Mont Blanc descendant, and that Noland was actually an extremely honest person who was very sad that the people didn't believe him. Usopp guesses that he was diving to find the gold and clear his ancestors name, but he shoots at him, missing of course, and explains that what his ancestor did has nothing to do with him and because of him he had a rough childhood. But over the past 400 years, many relatives have tried to clear the Mont Blanc name but have disappeared instead. So Cricket ran away from home and became a pirate to escape Noland's reputation. He managed to get his own ship and crew and entered the grand line. However, they accidentally came across an island, which is the one they are on now. He believed that it was fate, that he, who hated the Mont Blanc name so much, would find the island his ancestor had found long ago. He decided to search for the gold, but his crew decided to leave instead of helping him search. Rather than feel obligated to find the gold, Cricket thinks of it as a duel between the man who made his life hell and himself. Usopp bawls and Luffy asks how the monkeys fit into the picture. Turns out, the monkeys love the picture book and believe the gold really exists. Luffy presses the man about sky island, yelling that he wants to go there. Cricket says that it's not confirmed that Noland ever went there but tosses Nami Noland's log book from 400 years ago. Nami reads about his adventure and how they saw skyfish. The gang gets really excited to hear Nami read about Sky Island. Cricket goes outside to see the Monkey Brothers fighting and convinces them to help the Straw Hats get to Sky Island. 

Mont Blanc Cricket explains to the Straw Hat Pirates that the sudden night they witnessed earlier was the result of a dense cloud and that the location of Skypiea was directly above this cloud. Cricket then explains that in theory, a ship can ride on the Knock Up Stream to reach Skypiea. However, if they fail to find a place to land there, they will fall back to earth. According to Cricket's prediction, the next Knock-up Stream will occur the next day. The Straw Hat Pirates go back inside to eat. Meanwhile, the Bellamy Pirates approach Cricket's home for gold.
Cricket continues reading Noland's logbook. Noland writes that he heard a bell upon reaching Sky Island. Cricket then shows three bell-shaped gold ingots he found while diving, proving that there was civilization there and also a golden sculpture of a southbird. He then explains that the Straw Hat Pirates will need to capture a southbird from the forest, because they always face south, so the pirates can use the southbird as a sort of compass to navigate to the Knock Up Stream.
So, while Cricket, Masira and Shoujou make repairs and improvements to the Going Merry, the Straw Hat Pirates split up into groups and venture into the forest to find a southbird. Sanji, Usopp and Nami end up in an area full of tarantulas, while Zoro gets stuck in a quagmire and Luffy and Chopper manage to find a southbird but it drops a bee's nest near Luffy, causing several insects to chase them away.
Meanwhile, the Bellamy Pirates reach Cricket's house and Masira and Shoujou are prepared to fight them.

The Straw Hats are still attempting to capture the Southbird. However, the bird has waged an offensive against them by turning the forest against them. Meanwhile, Bellamy and his crew arrived at Cricket's place in order to take his gold treasures. Sarquiss and the rest of them were easily defeated by the Saruyama alliance then Bellamy decided to join in the fight. Bellamy easily defeated Cricket, Shoujou and Masira using his Bane Bane no Mi powers. Their gold was stolen and Bellamy's crew finished it off with more offensive against the Saruyama Alliance because Cricket had said they do not have the right to touch the gold. Bellamy on his way back to his ship went on to say that in the new era they need to understand that dreams do not come true. Cricket then told him that "a chick who does not have the guts to fight against something he's never seen shouldn't be telling me about pirates".
The Straw Hats have gathered together after being chased by various animals set up by the Southbirds. The bird finally came to meet them and Chopper interpreted the bird saying they would never catch him. As Usopp was about the shoot the bird down, Robin captured the bird with her Hana Hana no Mi. Upon returning to Cricket's house, the Straw Hats found that they have been beaten up. Usopp was mourning how their ship has been damaged. Luffy tried asking Cricket what had happened but Cricket refused to tell him and only apologized saying there was nothing they could do - referring to their easy defeat. At that point, Nami told Luffy that the gold has been stolen. Cricket stated it does not matter the gold is stolen. Usopp chastised him saying Cricket had spent 10 years beating his body through diving so as to attain the gold.
Cricket was persuading them saying that the Saruyama alliance have a duty and that was to get the Straw Hats to the Sky Island. While talking, Zoro noticed Bellamy's mark on the Going Merry's hull and called Luffy's attention to it. Luffy then resolved to fight them and Zoro asked if he needed a hand and Luffy said no that he would be fine. Nami said that Luffy shouldn't go because they have only 3 hours left to set sail. Cricket tried to stop him by talking but Zoro offered him a katana saying Cricket would need that to stop Luffy. Luffy then told them that he would be back by dawn.
A drunk customer after relieving himself thought a newspaper but dropped. He picked it up and realized it was a stack of wanted posters. Upon going through the posters he recognized Luffy and Zoro's faces and laughed when he saw their bounties thinking he was too drunk. He became extremely surprised that their bounties were so high to the point of being higher than Bellamy's bounty.
Luffy had begun making his way to Mock Town. Meanwhile, Sarquiss was telling of the event that occurred between their crew and the Saruyama alliance. Soon the drunk man who picked up the wanted posters came into the bar and showed it to all who were in the bar including Bellamy. Bellamy tried to counter the poster saying there are pirates who try to increase their bounties and their opponents become scared and would not fight them. He referred to Luffy and Zoro's event where he beat them up earlier in the day. While the bar customers were trying to justify the situation, Luffy arrived and yelled Bellamy's name requesting his whereabouts.

Bellamy laughs at Luffy's demand that he give back Mont Blanc Cricket's gold. After their last encounter in Mock Town, he doubts Luffy even knows how to throw a punch. Sarquiss still believes the bounty poster for Luffy with his new 100,000,000 bounty is a fake. He's not even sure the old one for 30,000,000 is real as he watches Luffy's fight with Bellamy. Bellamy breaks off the roof they are on and springs at Luffy with Spring Snipe, but Luffy jumps out of the way. The Bellamy Pirates sit back to "watch the show". Bellamy manages to hit Luffy when he's falling from the rooftops, and smashes him into the boardwalks. Luffy gets up as if nothing has happened, but Bellamy is still unimpressed with his effort. 
Wanting to finish it, Bellamy begins springing off all the nearby buildings around Luffy with his Spring Hopper technique, all the while mocking Luffy for being among the pirates who chased dreams. Angered, Luffy cracks his knuckles, recalling Bellamy asking if he even knew how to throw a punch. As Bellamy springs toward him to finish him off, Luffy punches downward, striking Bellamy down through the boardwalks so hard he leaves an imprint of his fist in the now-unconscious pirate's head. Sarquiss urges Bellamy to get up, thinking it's a joke. But it turns out the drunkard that found Luffy's new wanted poster was right about Luffy's notoriety. With Bellamy's blood dripping from his fist, Luffy demands Cricket's gold back, and the town's people scatters in a panic after learning Luffy and Zoro's bounties are real.
Back at Cricket's camp, all of his associates are back to work retrofitting the Going Merry thanks to Chopper's care. Nami berates Zoro for not going with Luffy to challenge Bellamy, even though he was beaten up earlier too. He doesn't take kindly to her insults, and Usopp tries to cool them down as they start beating on the ship in their argument. Back in Mock Town, Luffy sacks up Cricket's gold. With Bellamy still laying in the broken boardwalk, Sarquiss tries to challenge Luffy, but is held back by the others. When asked where he's going, Luffy raises his fist, still covered in Bellamy's blood causing Sarquiss to fall to the ground in fear. Luffy then points upward and tells them, "The sky!"
Drifting in the ocean, Dracule Mihawk gets Luffy and Zoro's new posters. He is pleased to see that they can now shake the World Government with their defeat of Crocodile.
Meanwhile, at Mary Geoise, the Five Elders-the de facto rulers of the world-find out from a Marine that "Red Hair" is trying to get in contact with "Whitebeard" via messenger. They determine that the two meeting is too dangerous, and they must find a successor for the defeated Crocodile among the Seven Warlords of the Sea quickly to maintain balance between "the powers". They also admit that they cannot keep Luffy unchecked. Indeed, a meeting of the remaining Warlords of the Sea has been ordered. Two arrive: Donquixote Doflamingo and Bartholomew Kuma, both of whom had massive bounties before becoming privateers. When he arrives, Doflamingo toys with two of the present Marines, using his powers to make them fight each other out of sheer boredom. He is told to stand down by the Fleet Admiral of the Marines, Sengoku, who is impressed that even two of the remaining six Warlords of the Sea showed up. Doflamingo said he only came because his "island business" was running so well he was bored of it. Shortly after, they are joined by Mihawk, making it three Warlords. He says he was merely an onlooker in these proceedings, as he's interested in the pirates responsible for Crocodile's defeat.
Shortly after, a foreign voice joins in, and the room is invaded by a tall, lanky man with tap shoes. One of the Marines present identifies him as Lafitte, a former peace officer from West Blue who was chased from his country for his cruel methods. He says he is here to recommend someone to replace Crocodile...
Somewhere on the seas, a captain receives a letter from Shanks. His men insult the messenger, Rockstar, a relative newcomer to the Red Hair Pirates who has a 94,000,000 bounty. The intended recipient of the message, Whitebeard, rips up Shanks' letter. The captain appears to be ill, as he has nurses all around and is connected to several IVs and an oxygen line. He tells Rockstar that if Shanks wants to send a message, he should deliver it personally, and bring good booze along with it. Rockstar alerts Shanks by Den Den Mushi. Shanks apologizes for putting Rockstar through all that, and tells his men to get ready to set sail to meet Whitebeard.
At Mary Geoise, Lafitte recommends his captain, Marshall D. Teach, to replace Crocodile as a Warlord. Sengoku doesn't even know who this pirate is, but Lafitte tells him that his crew, the Blackbeard Pirates, are hatching a plan to make their names known. 
In Mock Town, while the citizens were talking about Bellamy's defeat, Teach looks at Luffy's reward poster, and comments on it. Then Sarquiss runs into him and tells him to get out, so Teach buries his head into the ground. Then, he declares that he does not intend to capture weaklings, but one man out of 100,000,000, so he and his companions begin to leave the city, while discussing Lafitte and fate.
Luffy, however, is already on his way to the other side of Jaya with Cricket's gold.

The Straw Hats are awaiting Luffy's return. Nami is very upset that Luffy is taking too long and that they might miss the Knock-Up Stream. At that moment, Luffy arrives. The Straw Hat crew set out and Cricket tells Luffy that The City of Gold or the Sky Island has not yet proven to be non-existent. He tells Luffy that he may be laughed at; however, that is what romance is about. Cricket then thanks him for returning the gold.
The Blackbeard crew have moved out, and are looking for the Straw Hats to capture Luffy because of his high bounty. Luffy begins to make fun of the South Bird, pointing out that the bird is really uncomfortable when not facing south.
Once at sea, the Dark Cumulonimbus Cloud is spotted and the Straw Hats and Saruyama Alliance make their way towards the cloud. The Straw Hats guide their ship towards the whirlpool so as to ride the knock-up stream. Usopp, Nami. and Chopper begin to lose their nerve as they make their way into the whirlpool and plead with Luffy for them to go back. However, Luffy is far too excited to let them do that. Just as they got to the center of the whirlpool, the currents vanish and Nami explains that the main event is about to occur. While waiting for the knock-up stream, the Blackbeard pirates catch up to the Straw Hats and Blackbeard tells Luffy that he is there to claim his 100,000,000 head. Luffy, unaware of the increase, questions Blackbeard about this, before Blackbeard raises the poster for them to see as well as Zoro's bounty of 60,000,000. Usopp confirms that it was a new bounty poster and informed Luffy and Zoro of their amounts, with Nami deducing that the new bounty must be a result of what occurred at Arabasta. Both Luffy and Zoro are pleased with their high bounties.
Just as the Blackbeard pirates prepared to attack, the Knock-Up Stream erupts and the Straw Hat's ship rides the stream up towards the Cumulonimbus Cloud aided by Nami's exceptional navigation skills. Meanwhile, the Blackbeard pirate's boat is smashed to pieces, leaving them stranded in the ocean.

The Knock Up Stream drives the Going Merry through the Emperonimbus Clouds. Luffy finds it to behave just like water and does his best to hold his breath. Soon the ship breaks the upper surface of the White Sea and its wings break off. Back in the Blue Sea, Cricket sits on the island as the Knock Up Stream dissipates, lost in thought. Floating with his crew on the remains of their raft, Teach is impressed that the Straw Hat Pirates got away. Burgess is angry that they lost out on a possible bounty, but Teach reasons that they will cross paths again if they remain on the Grand Line.
Everyone on the Going Merry is sputtering from their unexpected underwater ride-except for Usopp, who has drowned. Everybody is amazed by the beauty of the clouds and wonders how the ship can float on them. Chopper finds Usopp not breathing and has to give him CPR. Usopp soon comes to and quickly wonders at the White Sea's expanse as well. Nami sees that the Log Pose is still pointing almost straight up. Robin thinks they have to go higher still, but isn't sure how yet. Usopp is eager to take a swim. Sanji warns him not to try until they were certain of the Sea Clouds' properties. Usopp doesn't listen and jumps in quickly "swimming" deeper and deeper. Luffy and Chopper at first are jealous, since as Devil Fruit users they cannot swim. But as he fails to come back up, Robin suggests the White Sea has no bottom and he's not swimming but falling. Luffy stretches his arm through the White Sea and Robin uses her Hana Hana no Mi power, Ojos Fleur, to put eyes on Luffy's arms to look for Usopp. They find him as he breaches the bottom of the Emperonimbus Clouds and Robin uses Veinte Fleur to grow arms out to grab him.
Pulling Usopp back up to the ship proves surprisingly difficult. When he breaches the surface, he is followed by a Sky Eel and the tentacles of a Sky Octopus. Zoro slashes the tentacle and to everyone's surprise it bursts like a balloon. Sanji knocks out the Sea Eel and it hangs limp and deflated over the rail of the ship. Zoro comments on how thin the air is while Sanji wonders about the strange creatures. Usopp screams as he feels a Sky Fish wiggling in his overalls then curls up in a fetal position on the deck repeatedly mumbling "sky island scary" after the personal horrors he's already experienced. Robin and Nami examine the Sky Fish. Robin wonders about the adaptations of the sea creatures to be able to swim in the Sea Clouds. Luffy then grabs the fish and Sanji sautees it. Luffy finds it delicious. Nami is angry at first that they cooked her specimen until she tastes it too and finds it delicious as well. While they wonder if they can cook the Sky Eel too, Chopper looks for Skypiea in the binoculars. He instead finds a ship getting blown up in the distance and falls to the deck in fright.
Chopper warns that there's something headed this way. A man with a shield and a bazooka-like weapon charges the Going Merry looking to destroy it. The strange person quickly knocks down Zoro, Sanji and Luffy, then jumps up and takes aim. However, he is stopped by a second man who jousts at him from a bird. The first blocks with his shield, but is knocked into the White Sea. The second man boards the Going Merry and reveals himself as the Sky Knight, an old man wearing armor along with his riding bird, Pierre. Nami comments that it was disgraceful that their three best fighters lost so handily. Chopper thanks the Sky Knight who says this rescue was "on the house". Luffy, Zoro and Sanji are all winded; Robin thinks it's because of the thin air at their altitude of 7,000 metres. The Sky Knight quickly recognizes the crew as "Blue Sea people". He says that there's no way they'll be able to last even higher up in the White White Sea, at 10,000 meters. Luffy thinks he's getting used to it, though.
The Sky Knight says he is a mercenary and offers his help to those who are not used to fighting in the sky. He offers his services for 5,000,000 but the crew is utterly unfamiliar with the Skypiean economy. He is surprised to find that they arrived by the Knock Up Stream and Nami frets over the fact that they had indeed come by an unusual route. The Sky Knight asks if their entire crew arrived alive. He says that usually crews lose a few men on normal routes, but with the Knock Up Stream, it's either they all live or they all die. He sees this as proof that the crew is capable of handling themselves in the sky. For that, he gives them a whistle for free; they can call on his aid, if needed, one more time free of charge. He introduces himself as "Gan Fall". Before taking his leave, he shows that Pierre had eaten the Uma Uma no Mi devil fruit, allowing him to turn into a Pegasus. The crew is disappointed that the mythical Pegasus looks so ordinary.
After the encounter, the crew still doesn't know how to get up to the White White Sea. Luffy suggests using the Whistle to ask Gan Fall for directions but Nami and Usopp stop him. Chopper spots a waterfall-shaped cloud, and they sail in that direction. Along the way, they stop among other different kinds of clouds that are floating in the White Sea. For a moment, they find rubbery clouds floating among the ship and Luffy, Usopp and Chopper bounce on them for fun. Nami surmises they will have to find a way around these clouds, so she asks them to find a route. Usopp finds a gate at the base of the waterfall and they navigate around the clouds until they arrive at Heaven's Gate. At this point, Zoro begins to wonder if they actually are dead. Someone emerges and takes photographs. Noting she has wings, they think at first she's an angel, though Luffy is disappointed she's so wrinkly.
She reveals herself as Amazon, the ship inspector at Heaven's Gate, and asks for a toll of 1,000,000,000 per person as dictated by the law. She says they don't have to pay, since she is not a guard and is merely asking their intentions. Luffy says they don't have money, the crew still not knowing what "extols" are, and asks how they get up. At this point a giant sky lobster, the "Express Lobster", grabs the stubs of the Going Merry's broken wings and begins to swim up the waterfall taking them to Skypiea. As they travel, Amazon calls on "almighty God" that a ship is entering Skypiea illegally with 7 occupants and requests that he passes "heaven's judgment" upon them.

The Straw Hats, with the help of the Speedy Crab, are finally transported to Skypiea. Robin mentions the sign Skypiea which they see and Nami indicates that it is the same name on the map which Luffy had in a destroyed ship previously. The Straw Hat Pirates land on Skypiea and begin exploring the new environment. They comment on the fluffy cloud, the fluffy cushion, the fruit - Conasshu, the flowers, etc. While exploring, they hear the sound of a musical instrument and Zoro comments that someone is present. Usopp thinks it's a guerilla and upon seeing the figure, Sanji comments that it was an angel.
The angel named Conis greets them and asks if they were Blue Sea Dwellers and Luffy responds that they came from the Blue Sea. She offers to open the Conasshu for Luffy stating the outside of the fruit is as hard as steel and cannot be bit into. Conis finally introduces herself and the cloud fox Su. She asks to be of service if they have questions. At that time, her father comes riding towards them. Nami asks what it is he is riding on and Conis responds that it is called a Waver.
Nami then remembers that the Waver is the equipment Noland mentioned in his travel log, a ship that sails without wind. She asks how it's possible and Conis responds asking if they have heard of dials. Luffy tries riding the waver but is unable to control the machine. Nami borrows the waver and rides it skillfully to the surprise of everyone including Pagaya who says it takes 10 years of practice to learn how to ride the waver. Nami asks Pagaya if she can ride some more on the waver and he agrees. Usopp comments on the construction site he found and Pagaya tells them it is the site where clouds are cut for construction. He explains to them regarding Sea Clouds and the Island Clouds as well as the technology behind the Seastone.
They arrive at Conis' house and Sanji goes to the kitchen to explore the Sky Cuisine while Robin asks Conis to explain more about dials to them. Luffy is already holding on to one when Conis asks him to say something into the dial. After that she tells him to press the apex of the dial and what he says was repeated. She explains that the dial is called the Tone Dial. Conis goes ahead and explains the various types of dials, how and where the sea shells are found and the dial behind the use of a waver.
Sanji brings out their food and comments on not seeing Nami on the sea. Usopp indicates that she may have gone exploring and Conis and Pagaya state their uneasiness. Conis tells them of the place where they must not go under any circumstance. The place adjacent to the Island and easily reached with the Waver. Meanwhile, Nami arrives at a place and comments on how huge the place is. The rest of the crew asks Conis what she means and she tells them the place they must never go to The Land Where God Resides - Upper Yard.

Conis begins by explaining that since Skypiea is also known as God's Land, it is ruled by almighty God Enel. She further says that God Enel knows everything that goes on in the world by always watching them. The Straw Hats are surprised when Conis tells them that God is watching them at the present time. Zoro comments on how he does not believe in the entity called - God and he holds nothing against those who believe. Sanji asks Conis if she has ever seen the God and Conis replies saying that she has never seen the God because Upper Yard is forbidden to enter.
Nami arrives at a place and comments with surprise that there is "earth" even on Sky Island. Luffy becomes excited when he hears that the Upper Yard is a place that is forbidden. He goes on to ask Conis if the God would forgive anyone who goes in there and Conis responds that she does not know. Robin asks for the consequences of visiting the Upper Yard and Pagaya states that they are sure such a person would not come back alive. Pagaya then asks if they were worried about Nami and Luffy responds in an excited manner that they would have to go to Upper Yard to get Nami. Meanwhile, Nami is amazed at the size of the trees seen at where she is currently located. She then hears voices talking about how they were going to get some treasure. Nami indicates to herself that people are present there and follows the trail of the voice.
The rest of the crew decide to go in search of Nami. While Luffy is trying to consume as much food as he can, Sanji inquires from Conis how to get to the Upper Yard. Conis responds that they aren't sure Nami went there and by going there they could receive the wrath of God Enel. On reaching the trail of the voice she heard, Nami arrives at a place and sees a waver. While looking around, a bird flies on a shell and presses it down before flying away. At that point, voices come out of the shell and Nami understands that the shell could record voices. After listening to the event that had been recorded by the voices, Nami understands that the people were killed by the God. She tells herself that she needs to go back and the farther away she got from her current location will be the best.
At that instant, she hears a loud noise and sees a man running while being chased by someone else. The Straw Hats have boarded their ship to go in search of Nami. The man running is seen to be chased by one of the priests of the Upper Yard. As he is about to be eaten by the dog belonging to the priest, another priest flying on a bird kicks the dog and goes after the man. A third priest joins the pursuit and the man now has three priests chasing after him. Nami, back on her waver, tells herself that there is something going on in the forest. Luffy decides to take the old waver to go in search of Nami since Pagaya told them they cannot sail because the wind is not favorable. Luffy ends up sinking and is rescued by Zoro. Pagaya examines the waver the Straw Hats brought and offers to fix it if it is fixable while being a dial ship engineer.
While Nami is watching, the priests are arguing amongst themselves who gets to kill the man when a man in a mask and bazooka appears behind Nami and fires it towards the priests. While before Nami, the man being chased appears and begs to join her on her waver. She responds that only one person could fit, but he threatens to kill her and get the waver. At that point, he got struck by a mass of lightning and he cries "God". Nami then overhears the priests talking about illegal entrants and she remembers Amazon telling them to pay the immigration toll. She hurries back to tell the rest of the crew about the event that occurred.
Just as Luffy is imploring Pagaya to fix their waver, they see some men telling them to wait and later crawling towards them. Usopp says they may be crawling because they are perverts and Chopper states so that is what a pervert is like. While the White Berets exchange greetings with Conis and her father, Luffy is still baffled as to what they are speaking. McKinley, Captain of the White Berets then tells the Straw Hats that they are there to bestow the Heaven's Judgment on them.

The White Berets confront the Straw Hats telling them to pay the immigration fee. However, the Straw Hats refuse to pay, claiming that the fee is too expensive and also they cannot afford that amount of money. They are still worried that Nami has not returned and ignore the White Berets to discuss how they can get Nami back. Usopp tries to pacify the White Berets by telling the crew to calmly wait for Nami's return and tells the captain of the White Berets, McKinley, to be patient and that they would pay the fee when Nami returns.
McKinley goes on to link almost everything the Straw Hats do to a crime including owning a waver, hitting a rare fish (which was about to eat Conis) and Zoro's act about wanting to fight McKinley because of his ongoing talks about them committing a crime. Usopp told McKinley that Zoro just meant it as a joke and not actually cutting McKinley. Chopper got angry and stated that all McKinley is doing is trying to make them guilty by all means. Usopp tried to pacify Chopper and Chopper said all they are doing is standing around doing nothing. An idea came to Usopp and he said they could do something which is - sleep. McKinley on seeing this accused them of environmental pollution. Luffy and Zoro became angry and were ready to fight the White Berets; Usopp continued to try to pacify them.
At that point, Nami returned yelling for Luffy not to get anyone upset after noticing that the Skypiea authorities have made contact with the Straw Hats. On hearing the high amount of money Usopp told her about the immigration fee, Nami in anger hit McKinley with her Waver and told them to run. Usopp asked what crime Nami committed and was told it was a class 5 crime punishable by cloud drifting.
Nami told the rest of the crew what she had seen earlier and told them they have to leave immediately. The rest of the crew agreed. However, Luffy was displeased and refused to leave. Although Nami tried convincing him, Luffy remained adamant about not leaving. Conis then appeared and told them to hurry but McKinley told her that if she continues to aid the Straw Hats, she and her father would be punished as well. The White Berets then launched an attack on Luffy but he easily defeated them. McKinley laughed and told the Straw Hats that there is no escaping anymore. They are now class 2 criminals and the Priests of the Upper Yard will be the ones to judge them.

The Straw Hats have now been marked as wanted criminals and Nami convinces the crew for them to leave. However, Luffy remains adamant in not leaving until he visits the Upper Yard. Just as they are about to leave, Luffy asks Pagaya if they could take the rest of the food left in his house and he agrees. Luffy calls Sanji to come along to pack them lunches. Usopp then asks if he could take some materials that may be needed to fix a ship and Pagaya again agrees. The three of them leave to Conis house while the rest of the crew goes to the ship.
Conis then approaches the rest of the crew on the ship to tell them about a special cloud they could get on that would get them past the White Sea quickly and get them to Cloud End faster. Nami is excited to hear the news and states they just need to get there on time before Luffy realizes. Conis then tells them to raise their anchor and wait for the 3 that went up to her house. While at Conis house, Luffy notices she was not around and Pagaya tells them she went to give her regards to the rest of the crew.
After Conis left, Nami comments about seeing a ray of hope in their situation. Robin then questions if such a special cloud existed and if it did, it would not be unusual for Skypieans to live in the Blue Sea. However, Nami and Chopper disapproves it and Chopper uses Heavy Point to raise the anchor of their ship. Conis returns to her house and there Luffy and Sanji are going back andeal on food when Usopp gets up and looks towards the sea. The rest of the crew are awaiting the return of the 3 that left to Conis' house when they felt the ship move. Usopp then notices that something is going on and calls the attention of the other 2. They come out and realize that the ship has started to sail. Luffy comments on how cool it was that the ship was sailing backwards but Usopp tells them to look closely and they can see a shadow underneath the ship pulling the ship along with it.
Zoro wonders if they have gotten on the special current and Robin tells him that was not the case. While trying to understand the situation, Pagaya tells them that which is pulling their ship is the Super-Express Speed Shrimp. Zoro tells the rest of them to jump out of the ship and he would think of something but they were worried at what would happen to the ship if they left it. Zoro cuts the Speedy Shrimp and Robin tells him to stop because others will come after them. She says it may just be the beginning and Zoro comments on Heaven's Judgment saying the God is calling them forth.
Luffy, Usopp and Sanji ask where the rest of the crew are taken to and Pagaya says the Super-Express Speed Shrimp is a servant of God and most likely they are taken to the Sacrificial Altar at the Upper Yard. Sanji is very angry at  God and Pagaya goes on to explain that people who are to become sacrifices receive one of the two judgments of heaven. They are either the sacrifice or the ordeal. He goes on to explain that the people being judged are the three of them left behind. Pagaya describes to them how to reach the location of the Sacrificial Altar. Luffy then replies that so all they have to do is to beat the priests and that things just got interesting.

Luffy, along with Sanji and Usopp leave Conis' house to prevent Conis and Pagaya anymore trouble. Luffy and the others plan to go to the Sacrificial Altar but they are unsure where to go since the Skypiea map they obtained is too old, Conis appears saying her father wants her to help the Straw hats to the Sacrificial Altar. As Conis leads Luffy and the others to the Sacrificial Altar, McKinley spies on them chuckling happily wanting them to go to Upper Yard.
Luffy, Usopp and Sanji arrive at Lovely Street, still being followed by the White Berets. Lovely Street is a busy place with lots of markets, but the people around there seem to be avoiding them because they have been branded as being criminals. Luffy seems to be enjoying himself by fiddling with the things for sale like dials and other things. Conis finds the docks and head over there with Luffy and the others. The towns people seem to realize that the Straw Hats are leaving and that they will be saved from Enel's wrath. Luffy and Co. arrive at the Gondola Port, Luffy wants to ride a Gondola but they have to ride the crow. Luffy refuses to leave Lovely Street unless he takes the Gondola with the bull. Sanji comically beats up Luffy and makes him apologize to Conis. Conis told them to go through Gate 2 which will take them to the Milky road that leads to Upper Yard. Luffy questions Conis about why she has been trembling since they left her house. Sanji believes that Conis is worried about them but Usopp thinks something's wrong since Conis is leading them while the rest of the town is avoiding them. McKinley and the rest of the Skypieans watch as Conis reveals the secret mission Skypieans must complete when outsiders come to their land to Luffy, Sanji and Usopp causing the Skypieans to back away slowly.
A flashback of Pagaya and Conis appear. Pagaya thinks the Straw Hats are just like other "Sea Dwellers" and will back away from their dreams, making them retreat from Upper Yard. It is revealed that the citizens are all behind this plot for this was Enel's rule and all who disobey will be punished. Conis tells Luffy and the others that she called for the lobster to take away the Going Merry with the rest of the Straw Hats to Upper Yard. Now that Luffy, Sanji and Usopp were told the plan by Conis her life is in danger. Using Mantra, Enel summons a beam of light coming from the sky and aims it at Conis. Luffy tries to run away holding Conis, but the light is too big destroying some houses in the progress.
After the explosion, it seemed unsure whether Luffy or Conis were still alive. The Skypieans believed that should happen to anyone who denies Enel's power. A voice sounds that both people are safe. Gan Fall along with Pierre saved both Luffy and Conis. Gan Fall asked Luffy what will he do, Luffy answers that they will go to Upper Yard and save their friends. McKinley was surprised that they were leaving for the Upper Yard saying they were leaving without a single hesitation. The episode ends with Luffy, Sanji and Usopp heading to Upper Yard.

Luffy, Usopp and Sanji begin their journey to Upper Yard and Usopp is questioning if Conis was going to be alright being that she is now branded as a criminal like them. As they head into Upper Yard, they comment on how huge the forest is. Just as they begin advancing into the forest, they are attacked by a big moving scythe. Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Bazooka to help them escape. Just then they are again attacked, by wooden spears. Sanji and Luffy kick them off and Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Kazaguruma to get them past. Just then, a razor boomerang appears and begins attacking them. As the Super-Express Speedy Shrimp abandons the rest of the crew, Robin comments on the fact that their current location appears to be a sacrificial altar. Luffy, Usopp and Sanji continue to be attacked, this time by a Sky Lamprey, which Sanji easily defeats.
Zoro has defeated a Sky Shark and decides to explore the forest. Nami comments on how dangerous it was since the priests and Enel were at Upper Yard. Nami indicates he needed to respect God and Zoro replies that he had never for one day prayed to God. Chopper thinks that was very cool of Zoro. The three traveling down the Milky Road are once again attacked by another Sky Lamprey and Luffy defeats it with ease. Robin decides to go with Zoro to explore the forest after seeing the writings on the sacrificial altar and commenting that the altar is about 1,000 years old. Robin states that the history of such excites her. She further indicates that there may be "valuables" in the ruins. On hearing this, Nami decides to go along with them as well. Leaving the ship in Chopper's care, they leave. Chopper later realizes that he is the one in most danger, being alone in a dangerous place.
Luffy, Sanji and Usopp are still making their way through the Milky Road and finally make their way to the entrance of the four different Ordeals.

Zoro, Nami and Robin continued exploring the forest when Robin brought to their attention that there is soil in their current location. They found it weird that soil is located on Sky Island which is supposed to be all cloud like. Robin went on to comment that there is a great deal of investigation worth doing on the Sky Island. The 4 Priests awaited the rest of the Straw Hats while they chose which Ordeal they have to go through. Luffy told them to go through the Ordeal of Balls and Usopp stated that the Ordeal of Balls feels less violent. He then went through the cons of each of the ordeals and settled to go by Luffy's instinct. They then agreed to choose Ordeal of Balls.
There, they encountered Satori, one of the four priests, and he easily overwhelmed them using his Mantra (ability to predict the opponent's move) and Impact (an attack that attacks the body inside out). Luffy told Sanji and Usopp to hurry and secure the dial ship which was almost out of sight caused by the initial attack of Satori on them. Luffy told them he was going to defeat Satori. Luffy tried his attacks, but Satori was able to see through them. Satori attacked Luffy with multiple Impact attacks and Luffy's head got stuck in a tree. Satori then went on to say Luffy was a tough one.

Satori continues his attack on Luffy, Sanji, and Usopp in the Ordeal of the Ball. Meanwhile, Usopp was attempting to recover the Little Crow before it travels deep into the forest. He tried his new weapon which was only partially functional and he wasn't able to disconnect the rope. Sanji, seeing Luffy and Usopp became upset and comically gave both of them beatings. Sanji told Usopp and Luffy that they need to temporarily forget about the boat and join forces in defeating Satori. Satori on hearing this, used impact to attack Sanji.
Aisa is seen running across Upper Yard and went into an opening in one of trees and was seen gathering soil. On hearing the footsteps of people, the girl went into hiding. Chopper is shown trying to retrieve the hammer he had dropped after hitting it against his fingers. On retrieving the hammer, a skyshark charged towards him, attempting to devour him and Chopper somehow landed on the shark and was thrown back to the ship, landing right in front of the One Whistle they received from Gan Fall.
Chopper decided to use the whistle, but only as his last resort. Just then Priest Shura arrives, questioning why Chopper is the only sacrifice he has to kill. After that moment, Chopper blew into the whistle. Satori continued to fight Luffy and Usopp after Sanji passed out from Satori's last attack, and he completely overwhelmed the three of them.

Gan Fall has brought Pagaya and Conis to his home to protect them since Enel's Mantra cannot reach his home. Gan Fall goes on to indicate that it is a possibility that Luffy and his friends are people known as pirates in the Blue Sea. He tells them that Luffy and his friends are probably outside the law and how is that different from Conis and her father currently. He went on to reiterate that they are also in war with the Shandia and he was working on a peace treaty before Enel took his divine seat. Gan Fall tells of how the war will end when they hear the beautiful music resonate again, which initially lead to the start of the war.
Pierre heard the whistle go off and Gan Fall left right away to Chopper's aid. Shura and Fuza have already begun their attack on the Going Merry. Chopper is easily overwhelmed by Shura and Fuza. Nami continues to fall into perils of being attacked by sky sharks and is continuously saved by Zoro and Robin. Shura continues his attack on Chopper and is upset that Chopper neither wants to die, have his friends hurt, or the ship destroyed, yet Chopper is too weak at fighting. Shura went on to tell Chopper that since some of the people brought for the sacrifice escaped, he has to die in their stead and his death will weigh on them in realizing their mistakes. Just as he was about to kill Chopper, Gan Fall arrived and began battle with Shura.
Luffy has regained consciousness from the attack by Satori and Satori is about to launch another powerful attack on him.

Satori has put together his Ball Dragon, which is made up of Surprise Balls with gunpowder and projectiles, and he launches it against Luffy, Sanji, and Usopp. Aisa is done gathering up Vearth and has returned to her village where she is seen sneaking in by Kamakiri. Wyper is seen discussing the current event of Gan Fall appearing at Upper Yard with other warriors and the village head. Wyper tells them that as long as there is a God trying to rule over them, they would rebel. Raki tried reasoning with him that Gan Fall may not be an enemy in a sense however, Wyper rejected her reason saying it will only get in the way.
Pagaya is seen fixing the waver the Straw Hats brought and discussing with Conis about helping the Straw Hats escape. Meanwhile, the battle between Gan Fall and Shura continued and Gan Fall lost. Zoro, Nami, and Robin continue their exploration of the forest. The battle between Luffy and Satori continues. Luffy being chased by the Ball Dragon ran towards a tree and happened to come by the string Satori is using to control the ball dragon. Luffy snaps the string in two making Satori lose control over the ball dragon. Luffy brings the ball dragon towards Satori which ends in an explosion. Usopp upon leaving the battle field to search for the boat is able to find the exit out of the forest. Luffy finally catches up with Satori and wraps his arms and legs around him, Sanji tells Luffy not to let go. Sanji and Luffy together defeat Satori.

Wyper discusses with the other Shandia warriors about Gan Fall entering Upper Yard, they thought that Gan Fall did not come to fight Enel for his position as God but for another reason. Aisa uses her Mantra abilities unknowingly seeing Satori lose, this frightens her making her scream during the Shandia meeting. Aisa tells Wyper that two voices disappeared, they assumed that Gan Fall and Shura killed each other and think that it is now the best time to attack Enel. Aisa tells Raki that Gan Fall did not defeat one of the priests but another group of people.
The kick that Sanji delivered to Satori knocked him out. Usopp tells Luffy and Sanji that they have to run to catch their boat. Usopp uses Usopp AAaaaAAAaaaAA to catch the boat, but the three Straw Hats smash into several trees making them almost unconscious once arriving back on the boat.
At the Sacrificial Altar, Chopper failed to save Gan Fall forgetting that he cannot swim. With Chopper and Pierre both being Devil Fruit users and Gan Fall unconscious, it seemed to be the end, but a mysterious bird came and saved them. Meanwhile, Gedatsu, Ohm, and Shura all know that Satori has been defeated, and they also sense that Upper Yard is under attack by the Shandia.
Nami sees something in the distance and cannot believe what she saw, so she aims to go to the seashore. Robin feels the same as Nami and thinks that her life long dream is not so far away. Chopper wakes up to realize that he is still alive along with Gan Fall and Pierre, but a flock of birds appear and scare Chopper. Zoro, Nami and Robin are close to the seashore, but they hear a battle cry and explosion in the distance. Nami runs ahead to see if what she saw was true; Upper Yard was once a part of Jaya and that the building she saw was the other half of Noland's house.
Chopper was amazed to see huge South Birds and was told they saved him. The birds also told him Gan Fall was the former God.

Nami, Zoro, and Robin made a huge discovery about Jaya that it did not sink to the bottom of the ocean but instead rose to the sky, along with all the native animals that have adapted to live in the sky. According to Nami, the half of Jaya in the sky is the City of Gold, to which Nami thinks God is praising her for being good. Meanwhile, the Shandia have started their invasion on Upper Yard and are up against the Priests. Luffy, Sanji, and Usopp have finally left the Ordeal of Balls and find themselves in a grass field full of skulls. Usopp assumes that the skulls are to intimidate anyone one who passes and says it's working. Just as Luffy, Sanji, and Usopp were traveling down the Milky Road, they heard explosions and saw several Shandia warriors flying above them. Wyper looked and fired an iron ball at them but Luffy rebounds it with Gomu Gomu no Fusen which surprises Wyper and the other Shandia. Sanji recognized that Wyper was the Guerilla that attacked them on their arrival. Wyper states that he will kill Enel and them if they get in his way, which signified that the Guerillas and Enel are enemies. Luffy is angered by Wyper for attacking him and takes actions by challenging him to a fight, but Wyper left commenting that they may not even make it out of the island alive.
Meanwhile, the battle continues between the Shandia and the priests from Upper Yard. Luffy, Sanji, and Usopp are still making their way to the sacrificial altar through the Milky Road which seems like a roller coaster ride. Zoro's party arrived back to the ship and realized that Chopper was attacked and feared the worst, but Chopper came out crying. Luffy's party arrives at the end of the Milky Road and there were Sky Sharks that were ready to be beaten. Luffy knocked them out using Gomu Gomu no Gatling Gun and found the ship and the rest of the crew.
The crew believe that the ship was too dangerous to sleep inside, so they went ashore and went camping for the night. The Straw Hats had a session reviewing what had happened. Luffy's group, Zoro's group and Chopper gave reports learning of the priests, Mantra, and the City of Gold. Luffy made the decision that they would be taking treasure from the City of Gold.

The Straw Hats begin to make their preparation to find the City of Gold. Sanji prepares to cook while Zoro, Chopper, and Robin go in search of ingredients. Usopp prepares to fix the ship and Nami prepares the plan. Gan Fall is still resting and recuperating from his injuries. Later on, the crew get together and Nami had a hunch and told them the possible location of the city of gold. Chopper also tells the crew of the flock of large South Birds who rescued them and how they were calling Gan Fall, God. Luffy thinking it was the same God asked if Gan Fall was the person he was to beat up and Usopp comically replied no.
At the Shandia village, Raki apologies and that it was because of her, Kamakiri was injured. Luffy, Usopp, Zoro, and Sanji decide to have a campfire. Just then they were threatened by a pack of wolves who think the Straw Hats are there to take over their land. Nami punches the leader of the pack and settled the misunderstanding. The crew began the campfire and the party started.
Gan Fall wakes up and Zoro thanked him for saving Chopper and the Going Merry. Gan Fall then asked if they knew how Upper Yard came to be called the Holy Land. Wyper is angry at Raki since he thought she was distracted during the battle because of the Vearth. Gan Fall explains that the Sky Cloud cannot support plant life and Vearth is the yearning of every Sky Island person. Kamakiri explains that the warriors must return and continue the fight in order to return to their original home.

Usopp wanting to urinate and being too scared to go alone asked Zoro to accompany him but Zoro refused. Usopp went on his own and noticed that someone was on the ship fixing it. Shocked by the mysterious shadow, Usopp blacks out only to be found by Zoro the next day. The Priests were summoned by Enel, but they began fighting against one another seeing who is the strongest among the three priests. While arguing amongst themselves, they questioned where Enel was and a bolt of lightning came and Enel appeared.
Enel reveals to the priests the purpose of the Straw Hats coming to Sky Island and told them the Shandia will also be attacking and therefore, the Upper Yard is opened to the priests without any area limitation. He also told them the Ark Maxim was ready. Gan Fall ponders on what Enel's plans might be and Wyper rekindles his resolve to take Enel out.
The Straw Hats on the following morning realize that their ship has been repaired. They pondered on who may have fixed the ship considering their location. Usopp wondered how the repair person was able to fix the ship correctly to its original design. Finally, Usopp and Chopper begin their attempt to get the ship off the sacrificial altar. Usopp used Chopper as bait to lure the sky sharks so as to use their power to pull the ship. Nami divided the crew into the exploration and home team. The exploration team will go in search of the gold and the other team will sail the ship which then, they would escape Upper Yard. With this, they set out, and so did their enemies.

The exploration team of the Straw Hats move out to find the gold and the rest of the crew sail out. While traveling through the forest, Chopper noticed that a tree root was moving. He ignored it saying to himself that the crew would make jest of him if he told them. Just then Luffy turned back and noticed the same thing as Chopper and commented on it, which got the attention of the other two. The tree root began to move and what appeared before them was a Giant Python.
The rest of the crew sailing down the Milky Road had Gan Fall with them. Gan Fall then told them of the history behind the war between the Shandia and the inhabitants of Sky Island. He further told them of how the Shandia, being the original inhabitants of the Upper Yard were driven out of their land and the Sky Islanders possessed it for selfish interest. This led to the war between the Shandia and the people of Sky Island. Gan Fall explained what transpired the rule of Enel as God. Sanji asked why the crew was attacked by a Shandia when they first arrived and Gan Fall explained to them that some enforcers seized by Enel escape via ship and are ultimately defeated by the Shandia. He told them that they may have been falsely recognized as being runaway enforcers. Gan Fall further explained the Citizens Sense of Crime which occurs when outsiders visit Skypiea. He was however, confused about what gold was and asked the crew traveling with him.
Gan Fall was shown in a flash back at one of his attempts at negotiating with the Shandia. Wyper, clearly angry, refused negotiating unless Gan Fall returned all of their land to them. Gan Fall stated he could not return everything as the Vearth was also useful to the people of Sky Island, who he thinks are innocent of the actions that transpired years back.
Wyper and the rest of the Shandia warriors prepare for battle with Wyper once again renewing his resolve to defeat Enel. He informed the warriors that only those prepared to leave the injured behind and continue battle should join him.
The rest of the Straw Hats in the forest get attacked by the giant python and in their attempt to escape from it, they get separated. The Shandia warriors move out to Upper Yard with the goal of reaching the God Shrine to take Enel out.

Aboard the Going Merry, Gan Fall begins to explain Sky Warfare to Sanji, Nami and Usopp. He demonstrated this by having Sanji hit the Impact dial with a large hammer, to no avail. Gan Fall tells Sanji to press the tip of the dial, causing a blast to be emitted from the shell. Gan Fall further explained how some other dials are used for warfare. When asked about Mantra, Gan Fall told them it is difficult to explain, however he was able to explain some of the basics, and told them what the hearing capabilities of the priests and Enel were.
Enel is seen at his shrine, counting the total number of people in his survival game as totaling 81. He asked one of his advisers to predict the number of people that will be left in three hours, and the man says that he is underestimating the power of people in the battle. Enel predicts that five people will be left after three hours.
The Shandia warriors have made their way into the Upper Yard forest and found themselves trapped in Shura's Ordeal of String. Just as Shura was explaining to the warriors how they got tangled, he felt the presence of Wyper and both began battle. Just as Shura began his attack, Wyper threw his weapon and shield away to take Shura's hit. After enduring the attack to lure Shura in, he defeated Shura using the Reject Dial. Enel's commenting indicates that Shura was defeated as a result of underestimating Sky Weapons. Meanwhile, Divine Soldiers have also been mobilized by Yama.
Luffy making his way through the forest was attacked by a Divine Soldier, who he easily bested. He then encountered Wyper, who decided to eliminate Luffy because he refused to leave the Island. Both of them then prepare to fight each other.

Chopper was running around scared and Robin is seen in what appears to be the ruins. Zoro is seen talking to himself about his Flying Blade attack and he tried it out on a bird attempting to attack him, but he said the attack wasn't ready, thus searching for another thing to test this attack on. Chopper, running scared, is actually being chased by the Divine Soldiers, but they encounter a Shandia and ignore Chopper and fight one another. Robin, still at the ruins, is approached by a Divine Soldier who tells her to go this route leading to God's shrine. Robin, upset at the Divine Soldier for breaking some part of the ruins, defeats him.
Zoro, still making his way through the forest, is attacked by a Shandia warrior and Zoro punches him, knocking him out. In that moment, Braham defeats a Divine Soldier and proceeds to fight Zoro. Zoro initially tried to ignore the fight since Braham was not a priest. However, when Braham's attacks continued, Zoro prepared to fight him saying that he is glad Braham is not a second-rate flunkie. The Shandia and the Divine Soldiers are now engaged in battle and so are Braham and Zoro. Zoro was initially having problems fighting Braham because of the Jet Skis and Flash Guns that Braham has, thus making it a long-range battle. As the battle continues, Zoro decides to try his new technique. With Ittoryu - Sanjuroku Pound Ho, Zoro was able to defeat Braham and commented to himself about accepting the survival game.
Chopper, wailing about being left by the others, finds himself at the ruins and congratulates himself on being smart. Meanwhile, Gedatsu was in the same area and Chopper did not notice him. Luffy and Wyper continue their face-off and Wyper was shooting cannons at Luffy which Luffy rebounded using his Gomu Gomu no Mi abilities. Enel has visited the Straw Hats' ship and Sanji attempted at attacking but was defeated by Enel's Goro Goro no Mi abilities. Enel stated he had come without the intention of fighting and referred to Sanji as a foolish man. Gan Fall asked what his purpose of visit was, but Enel just told him it's been a long time since they met, and said that that is a cold-hearted way of greeting him.

Usopp cries over the loss of Sanji, but Nami states that he was checking if his heart was beating on the right and he needed to check the left side. On doing that, Usopp became relieved that Sanji's heart was still beating. At that point, Usopp threatens Enel by lying that he has 8,000 followers and will spare Enel's life if he leaves. Enel, upset at Usopp, takes him out with his Goro Goro no Mi. Enel then told Gan Fall that the Divine Squad members, who he seized six years ago, have been working long and hard till this day without rest. He also told Gan Fall that his need for Sky Island is also complete. Enel stated that the people of Skypiea are ignorant in seeing the Upper Yard as only a land of Vearth. He stated that the Straw Hats, his crew and the Shandia all seek the City of Gold.
After his discussion with Gan Fall, Enel left saying he is also a partaker in the final game and responded to Gan Fall's inquiry about his Divine Squad leaving Enel's forced labor as "something only God knows". At that moment, Hotori and Kotori, both of whom are brothers of Satori, appeared with the intention of avenging their brother's death. While still engaged in their battle, Luffy tells Wyper that cannons and rifles will not work on him. Wyper, seeing the statement as being true adds a Flavor Dial and his weapon becomes the Burn Bazooka. Luffy and Wyper battle for some time and eventually throw each other off after both launching a Bazooka-like attack on each other. Wyper thought it would be better not to kill Luffy and save his energy to kill Enel. Just as Luffy answers him, Luffy is swallowed by the Giant Python, leaving Wyper to wonder where Luffy had gone.
Genbo and the Divine Soldiers battle and he easily overwhelms them. Yama then appears before Genbo. Genbo shoots an iron cannonball at Yama, which he dodges and kicks the iron cannonball back and damages Genbo. Genbo, refusing to be defeated, makes Yama launch the Ten-Fold Axe: Axe Mountain attack on Genbo and defeats him.
While on the Going Merry, Nami and Gan Fall prepare for their battle with Kotori and Hotori. Luffy finds himself in an unidentifiable location. Chopper is still searching the ruins for the rest of the exploration crew where he comes in contact with Gedatsu.

The battle still continues between the Shandia warriors and Divine Soldiers. Robin, still in the ruins, explores it. She finds a monument which she commented must have been erected after the city fell and she found out that the name of the ancient city is called Shandra. Robin continued to make notes of what she had learned regarding Shandra; she said herself that she would continue to explore and may find some clue to the True History, which she could not find on the sea below. Just as she was observing and taking notes, Yama appeared. Robin asked if Yama was one of God's Army and Yama was upset hearing that, stating he is the Divine Soldiers' leader. He introduced himself to Robin and she inquired what he wanted of her, which Yama answered she would see soon enough.
Chopper in a scared expression before Gedatsu, commented on how Gedatsu's eyes are rolled back and his white eyes appear scary. A Divine Soldier tells Gedatsu to direct his eyes, so as to see the enemy and Gedatsu did so in a shocked expression. This surprised Chopper who then thought Gedatsu to be stupid. Chopper realized Gedatsu was an enemy and said to Gedatsu that he must be one of the priests. Gedatsu introduced himself and his Ordeal however, he was not speaking out loud. The Divine Soldier again told Gedatsu to speak out loud or else he will not be heard. Gedatsu, surprised, said he was careless and told Chopper he is in the Ordeal of Swamp which has a 50% survival chance, but only due to his incompetence, otherwise it would be 5%. Gedatsu, flying on his Milky Dial, commented that a tanuki is not worth his time and attempted to attack Chopper with the Numagumo Burger. However, the attack hit the Divine Soldier instead. Chopper realized it is a cloud attack that cannot come off and sucks the victim in the more the victim tries to fight off the cloud.
Just then, Gedatsu spotted Chopper and threw him another Numagumo Burger which Chopper dodged. Chopper ran towards the Divine Soldier and saved him. Gedatsu chastised the Divine Soldier for allowing himself to be saved by Chopper. The Divine Soldier then challenged Gedatsu which gave Chopper some motivation to fight. Gedatsu then attacked the Divine Soldier with Jet Punch which killed him. Chopper began to run but was challenged by Gedatsu. Gedatsu launched a Jet Punch on Chopper. However, Chopper bit the Rumble Ball and used his Jumping Point to evade the attack. The battle between Gedatsu and Chopper then began.
Yama began his attack on Robin. Robin became upset that Yama was destroying the ruins which Yama couldn't care less about. Yama used the Punch Mountain on Robin which destroyed another ruin making Robin call Yama a fool. Meanwhile, Luffy is still trying to find his way out of the "cave."
Chopper finally found that Gedatsu's weak point was his feet and climbed up the ruins to grab onto Gedatsu's foot. Gedatsu, not aware of what is going on, kicked Chopper away and launched another Numagumo Burger. Chopper dodged the attack and jumped into the sky. Gedatsu commented the sky is where he fights his battles and followed Chopper. Only upon jumping into the sky, did Gedatsu notice that one of his shoes were missing. He launched another Jet Punch which missed Chopper, who then retaliated by attacking Gedatsu using Arm Point: Obit Cross. Gedatsu falls into the swamp and Chopper was temporarily relieved, until he saw Gedatsu still moving. Chopper began to yell for Gedatsu to sink deeper into the swamp. Gedatsu tried using the Milky Dial on his other foot to escape but that pushed him all the way into the swamp; Chopper then praised himself for beating Gedatsu.
Aisa is then seen on a dial boat and she heard Gedatsu's defeated voice and commented to herself about another priest being defeated. Just then, her boat stopped working and a Sky Shark began to attack her and ate half her boat. She was then rescued by Conis and Pagaya before the shark would eat her. Conis introduced Su and Pagaya to Aisa. Aisa requested to be taken to Upper Yard and Conis mentioned they were on their way there to lead the Straw Hats out of Skypiea. Aisa then told them the Straw Hats were already on their way out and Conis implored Aisa to lead them to the Straw Hats.
Chopper is then shown applauding himself of finally being a pirate and commented on finding the gold himself. He wondered if there is gold "over there," which resembles a bean stalk. He says that maybe the rest of the exploration crew would arrive there soon.

Kamakiri and another Shandia warrior are seen getting close to the Shandra Ruins and the Giant Stalk when suddenly, Enel appears. Enel commented on Kamakiri's thoughts about him being there. Kamakiri responded, attributing it to Enel's Mantra. Enel disproved saying it is written all over Kamakiri's face and normally he would not be there but he is also a participant of the Survival Game. Enel then challenged Kamakiri telling Kamakiri he would not fight him for five minutes, and Kamakiri is free to do what he pleases to Enel. However, once the five minutes is up, he would fight Kamakiri. On that, Kamakiri began his attack on Enel.
Nami and Satori's brothers have began their fight aboard the Going Merry. The brothers were kicking about the unconscious Sanji and Usopp which got Nami very angry. She went ahead to hit one of them with her staff and was attacked with a Flavor Dial with the flavor of farts. Gan Fall after observing the brothers was able to tell the number of dials they were fighting with. On knowing that, Gan Fall began his attack on them, so did Nami. Gan Fall was attacked with a Breath Dial which he dodged and went ahead to fight and defeat Kotori. Nami then knocked Hotori away using the Cyclone Tempo. Gan Fall instructed Nami to fetch and use his gauntlet, which has an Impact Dial embedded in it to fight Hotori because he will be returning. Nami launched a Cool Ball on Hotori, to which he got upset and used his flame dial as a counterattack which only helped foster Nami's attack. Nami then launched Fog Tempo to obscure herself and launch an Impact on Hotori, which defeated him.
Conis, Aisa and Pagaya are on their way to the Straw Hat Pirates ship. Aisa is very scared commenting that voices of people keep disappearing. Gan Fall decides to go after Enel and Nami is upset he is leaving her alone on the ship. Just as Gan Fall left, Nami was about to begin first-aid treatment on Sanji and Usopp when Conis and her father arrived. Pagaya explained to her that they need to escape using his Milky Dial onto the White-White Sea and leave Skypiea. Pagaya also gave her the waver they had brought with them, all refurbished. 
The battle continues between the Shandia warriors and the Divine Soldiers and Kamakiri is still on his five minute allowable time to fight Enel without Enel counterattacking. Kamakiri eventually realizes and tells Enel that he cannot defeat Enel. Enel went on to explain that he is that referred to as God since his powers cannot be explained, therefore he is feared. Kamakiri decides to flee and warn Wyper about Enel's abilities, however, Enel cornered him stating that his five minutes are up and now he can counterattack. Enel then defeated Kamakiri using the 1,000,000 volts Vari. The attack traveled through the Milky Road and defeated 20 other fighters, Shandia warriors and Divine Soldiers alike. Enel then summarized that after two hours of battle at the Upper Yard with 81 people beginning the battle, 56 have been defeated, 13 remain from his army, 5 from the Straw Hat crew and 7 Shandia warriors making a total of 25 people remaining, per his calculation. He then wondered, who would be accompanying him.
Luffy found a necklace made out of gold and wondered if the City of Gold was in the "cave" where he was at. He threw the necklace away after his stomach grumbled indicating his hunger. Still, unable to make out his current environment, he asked himself "Where am I?"

Conis, Pagaya and Aisa are aboard the Going Merry and Pagaya has given Nami the refurbished Waver which Nami test drove and commented on it being power-packed. Pagaya questioned what to do since some of the crew members were not aboard, so they could not be led out of Skypiea by Pagaya and Conis. Nami stated she needed to take the ship to their point of rendezvous and since the four are together, she is not so worried. Aisa then told her that there is no group bigger than two at Upper Yard or else she would know. Nami attributed the response to Aisa's ability of Mantra.
Luffy is still attempting to make his way out of the "cave" and is very much hungry. He wondered if the rest of the exploration crew had found their way to the City of Gold. Zoro decided to take a break and eat lunch when a Skypiean Southbird arrived. The bird was interested in Zoro's meal and although he finishes the meal without offering the bird any, the bird continued to follow him. Enel, still in the survival game, is determined to ensure that only five people are remaining by his predicted time of three hours.
Robin and Yama are engaged in battle. Robin, trying very hard to ensure the monument in the ruins are kept intact, protects it using Veinte Fleur: Calendula. However, Yama knowingly wants them destroyed. Robin chastised Yama for knowingly destroying the ruins which only angered him more. As a result, Robin decided to lead him out of the ruins, then she can counterattack. Once out of the ruins, Robin informed Yama she would battle freely with him without any obstacle. Yama launched his Drop Mountain which Robin countered with Treinta Fleur: Pound. Yama enraged, then tried to attack with axe Mountain but Robin turned the dials inward and trapped him, making him take on his own attack. Robin then chastises him and uses the Cien Fleur Delphinium: Clutch to attack and defeat Yama. Robin continued on her exploration of the ruins and had a flashback of the past events that took place at Arabasta.
Robin continues to explore the ruins and finds that it had a lower level hidden beneath. As she went further, Robin discovered that the City of Shandra, thought to have been destroyed 800 years back, still has some intact parts of it within the lower level hidden beneath the upper ruins. Alas, Robin found the City of Gold, Shandra, and started walking further only to find a Poneglyph. Robin then commented that all scholarly books were eradicated which also meant the history of Shandra as well.
Nami is still worried about the exploration crew, wondering if they are alright. Zoro is still being followed by the Skypiea Southbird and Luffy is still trapped in the "cave." Robin then stated that the City of Gold, Shandra, must have fought to protect the Poneglyph and was destroyed. She then indicated that the Great Belfry between the four altars could tell the True History; it may be the Rio Poneglyph.

Chopper has reached higher up on Giant Jack. While walking through the ruins, he felt a presence and found it was Holy. Ohm told Chopper not to worry as Holy would not bite him unless he has reason to do so because the dog is well trained by him. Ohm recognized Chopper as the one who defeated Gedatsu. Chopper tried retreating only to step over a person. He thought Holy must have bit the person down however, Ohm told Chopper he was the one that defeated the individual. Ohm began mourning the person he killed saying he is unable to understand why humans fight even when they are so weak, and that death is the only way for them to be truly saved. Ohm told Chopper that by being present, a fight is inevitable and that he would "save" Chopper.
Raki is seen traveling down the Milky Road and wondering why everyone appeared to have been burnt to a crisp, like being hit by lightning. She found Kamakiri who told her to find Wyper and notify him that Enel is not at the God's Shrine and that no one can beat Enel. Kamakiri told Raki that Enel is what is known as lightning, hence making him invincible. Raki left to find Wyper and commented on her way how Kamakiri's spirit has been broken asking herself how Enel ended up having the Goro Goro no Mi.
Zoro got to the place that appeared to be the sacrificial altar and realized it is a place he has seen before. The giant South Bird is still with him and he blamed it on the bird for wanting a free meal. He threw his bag aside and the bird, on seeing the bag imagined food to be in it and drooled. The bird picked the bag and Zoro hung onto the straps, yelling to the bird that there is no food in the bag. Luffy reached a dead end and thought of it as being a trick door. He thought breaking through it will make a way out and then attacked it with Gomu Gomu no Bazooka. However, nothing occurred-only a rumbling that sent Luffy falling further in. Chopper is seen running from Ohm in fear and came to a hiding spot. He commented on Ohm being a swordsman and by keeping his distance he can escape and find the others. Ohm, however, realized how far Chopper ran and stated that Chopper has an earthly desire which is an attachment to life. With that, Ohm defeated Chopper, stating a 0% survival rate at the Ordeal of Iron.
Aisa commented to the rest that another voice has disappeared and she is going in search of Raki. Nami went after her to bring her back when they saw the giant python. Luffy, upset about the "cave", began attacking it, causing the giant python to be in distress and act out. Nami and Aisa, aboard the waver fled into the forest to escape the giant python. On getting further into the forest, Nami realizes how far they have both fled. Zoro is seen telling the South Bird to let him down otherwise he would clip its wings. At this point, Nola came charging at them. The South Bird then thought the snake is after Zoro as the snake must have seen Zoro as a meal. The bird then released Zoro and the backpack. Wyper has reached Giant Jack, going after Enel.
Ohm stopped Wyper asking him who permitted him to climb the giant stalk. Gan Fall then appeared and told Wyper that he just returned from the God Shrine and the place has been completely destroyed. Just then, Zoro fell from the sky and saw that he was not alone. He recognized the ruins and asked Ohm to hand over the gold. Luffy is still upset about not finding a way out of the "cave" and keeps hitting it causing much anguish for Nola. Ohm told the men at the ruin, that for them to obtain what they seek, they have to first survive the Ordeal of Iron.

The battle among Zoro, Wyper, Gan Fall and Ohm has begun. Ohm told them only if he is defeated can they proceed. Zoro mentioned to Ohm that from his speech, he is a Priest that serves God. Zoro further told Ohm he is only interested in the gold and nothing else. Gan Fall mentioned to Pierre that they would have to defeat Ohm for them to move forward. Zoro mentioned to himself that the Python did nothing but followed him to the ruins. Luffy is shown lamenting on how weird the cave is. Wyper mentioned to the other men that they may as well die. He told Zoro that the Blue Earth Dwellers only came the day prior and they have no right to take anything. Just as Wyper and Zoro were fighting, the Python came charging in and Zoro saw that it had venom in its fangs. From behind was Holy who threw a punch that Zoro dodged. Zoro wondered how a dog could make such a move and Ohm introduced Holy, further commenting that he trains animals and is otherwise known as Sky Breeder.
Gan Fall came charging at Ohm and told Ohm he would like to know what Enel was up to. Ohm indicated that even if Gan Fall knew, it would be incomprehensible for him. The Enforcers are still fighting and trying to stop the Shandia from reaching the Giant Jack, meanwhile Nami and Aisa are still in the forest, also getting chased by the Enforcers. With her Mantra ability, Aisa realized that Wyper was alive and at Giant Jack. Just as Zoro was evading attacks from the snake, he noticed Chopper. Running to his side, he found that Chopper is unconscious. Zoro ran to try to help Chopper, but got hit by some Iron Cloud. Ohm explained that he helped to injure Chopper, but the Ordeals of Iron defeated him. Ohm asked if he would fight for revenge and Zoro replied saying he does not act that way however, this was an exception.
Pagaya and Conis brought the Going Merry to the point where the Straw Hats decided to meet, but they weren't there yet so they decided to watch the ship until they return. Pagaya turned the trumpet back on for courage and to ward off danger. Raki is still on her way to warn Wyper and the Shandia warriors are still on their way to the Giant Jack and behind them the Enforcers. Enel is happily enjoying the chaos. Wyper uses his burn bazooka to also attack Gan Fall saying Gan Fall and Enel are the same. Zoro began fighting Holy and Ohm, and was about to launch an attack he had in mind when Ohm released his sword made of Cloud Iron with a dial embedded in it. 
Meanwhile, Luffy is still trapped in the "cave" and becoming miserable about not able to find a way out. Nami and Aisa are chased to the Giant Jack by the Enforcers, along with Zoro, Wyper and Gan Fall. Wyper told Aisa to stay away from Nami and launched a burn bazooka in Nami's direction but she was saved by Gan Fall. He asked why the girls were there and Nami said because of a giant snake, only for the four of them to be swallowed by the giant snake.
Ohm then launched his sword at Zoro and Wyper, which knocked them out. He told them both they were distracted and there was nothing they could do about those who have been swallowed.

Due to the distraction caused by Aisa and Nami getting swallowed by Nola, Ohm attacks Zoro and Wyper. Ohm counts the total number of people left and came to a total of ten men and two animals. The Shandia at the Upper Ruins become upset at Ohm and try to attack him but were defeated by Holy and killed by the piercing of the Iron Cloud. At Ohm's command, Holy ran around and created a dome-like cage in the form of barbed wires. This trapped in all the fighters, hence, called a death match. Zoro and Wyper regained consciousness and Zoro had the intent of getting rid of the python since Nami and Gan Fall have been trapped in it; likewise, Wyper worries about Aisa. Raki is on her way to notify Wyper regarding Enel and recollects the events that led to the uprising of the Shandia. Upon finding Wyper in the Upper ruins, Raki goes on right away to inform him of Kamakiri's warnings only for Enel to appear behind her.
Wyper yells at Raki to run and not attack Enel but she fires shots at him anyways, which were ineffective. Enel then attacks and defeats Raki with his Goro Goro no Mi abilities. Enel tells Wyper that he will attack his opponents, indiscriminate of gender.
Inside the stomach of the snake, Nami, Aisa, and Gan Fall are trapped and have to devise a way to escape. While discussing how they might escape, Luffy finds them. Luffy, comically crying, asks Nami how she got into the mysterious "cave" and Nami explained that they were swallowed by a snake. Luffy sympathized with her and she comically pulls on his nose saying they are all in the same situation. Aisa asked who the "idiot" was and Nami told her Luffy is their captain. She indicated that Luffy must be slow not to realize he has been swallowed. Nami went on to comment that the snake has been acting weird and in pain. Luffy asked why the snake would act that way, and they realized that Luffy has been the culprit behind the snake's behavior. Nami comically hits Luffy causing more pain for the snake, which responded by rampaging and making them fall further into its belly.
Wyper continues to attack Nola and Zoro decides to fight Ohm before going to rescue Nami and Gan Fall.

Zoro is worried about Nami and Gan Fall, who had been swallowed by the Python. Wyper continues to shoot the Burn Bazooka towards Nola so as to get Aisa out of the snake's stomach. Zoro is faced with the difficulty of fighting Ohm who seems to know Zoro's exact location and attacks him with his Sword. On defeating a Shandia warrior, Zoro attempted to use the opportunity to defeat Ohm using the attack Nitoryu: Taka Nami. However, his attack was countered by Ohm's Eizen Back. Ohm then attacked again using the Eizen Fan, Eizen Fork and Eizen Fleuret. Zoro is becoming frustrated as he is unable to close in on Ohm and his ability to predict his moves. He then launched the attack Sanjuroku Pound Ho, which Ohm countered using the Eizen Whip.
Zoro ran from Ohm and arrived at another location where he discarded his goggles and tied on his bandana, awaiting Ohm. Holy and a Shandia warrior fought and Holy defeated the warrior knocking him out. Ohm counts the total number of fighters as three men and two animals, assuming that Gan Fall will not make it out of the python's stomach. Zoro told Ohm even if he does not know Ohm's location, Ohm's sword will give him the answer. Zoro drew his Katana and launched Santoryu: Hyakuhachi Pound Ho which broke through Ohm's iron cloud and defeated Ohm.
Inside the python's stomach, Luffy used Gomu Gomu No Fusen to ensure that the others are not injured by the impact of the fall. Gan Fall rescued Aisa. However, Aisa took his Lance and pointed it at him in a rage saying he is one of the enemies who stole their homeland. Nami tried reasoning with Aisa that the event occurred 400 years back and Gan Fall was not responsible for it. Gan Fall told Aisa he would gladly give his life if it would quell her anger and apologized to her ancestors. However, Aisa was unyielding and would launch the lance on Gan Fall which Luffy stopped. Luffy told her Gan Fall apologized and there was no reason to kill him. This made Aisa break out in tears.
Robin has reached the Upper Ruins and is in search of the Belfry Bell. She thought that the City must have fell in its attempts to protect the Poneglyph. She found rail tracks and wondered what was being transported as the tracks appear new. It was then that Enel appeared. He recognized Robin as an archeologist and told her that she is a few years late with regards to finding the gold. Robin asked if he also has the golden bell only to realize that Enel knows nothing of it. Robin discarded the idea saying that if Enel did not find it, then the Bell never made it to the sky. He disproved saying the ringing of a bell was heard when the Upper Yard was shot into the sky 400 years back. He offered for them both to find the golden Belfry Bell. Just then, Enel heard the sound of someone running across the Upper Yard.
Su made a distress call that brought Conis and Pagaya out, only for them to see a wounded man. The man was a Divine Squad member, one of Gan Fall's men who was forced to labor by Enel. He told them to warn his wife and child that Enel intends to send Skypiea to the Blue Sea and destroy the land. Going on, he further told them to warn everyone that Enel intends to kill all Skypieans. Pagaya told him Enel would lose his position as God if that is done and the Divine Squad member told Pagaya that Enel has the ark, Maxim. He told him the Divine Squad was labored to build an ark that can fly in the sky. Elsewhere, Enel gets up and a worried Robin asks him what he is about to do, and a blast of lightening is seen descending from the sky above where Pagaya, Conis and the Divine Squad member are. Realizing what is about to happen, Pagaya pushes Conis off the land and she is seen falling back towards the Going Merry and crying of a flashback of her father wishing for her and the island's peace. Conis screams for her father as the lightening lands on Pagaya and the Divine Squad member.

Enel used his lightning heaven's judgment on the Divine Squad member who escaped while Pagaya was with him. Conis remembering the words of the man on Enel's plan for Skypiea resolved to leave for Angel Island to warn the inhabitants. She left Su behind telling her to watch over the unconscious Usopp and Sanji. Upon defeating Ohm, Zoro commented on needing more training with the attack that he used. Just then, Holy came intending on punching Zoro and missed. Zoro yelled "down" while dodging the attack and the dog obeyed leading Zoro to say that the dog obey's anyone. Zoro then told the dog to hit itself on the head and take a nap and the dog did. Zoro then went on to attack the python, but was not having much success because of the snake's hard scales. However, the party in the belly of the snake are having a tough time staying still, which is related to the attack the snake is receiving from the outside.
Robin, surprised at Enel's action asked him what he had done and he told her he showed mercy to a "maggot" in pain justifying that it is the duty of the god. Robin seeing all this commented on how powerful Enel's Logia Devil Fruit is. Enel then used the attack Sango which sent lightning waves to the upper ruins. He told Robin this was an invitation to summon her comrades to Shandora. This caused the upper ruin ground to be destroyed. Nami decided to use the Waver to escape the inside of the snake while it's mouth was open. She started the waver however, Luffy and Aisa fell behind. Upon getting out, Nami realized they were falling and Gan Fall, who also made it out with Pierre, told Pierre to go back in to help Luffy and Aisa.
On falling to the lower ruins, Zoro meets Robin. He asked where they were and she told him the place where they were to find the gold. She went on to tell Zoro, after he asked where the treasure is, that there is no gold. Pierre arrived back inside the snake and found Luffy and Aisa. He motioned for them to climb on him and took on his horse form. Luffy stretched and got onto the back of the horse. Aisa was petrified at what she saw and hung on to the horse as told by Luffy. Upon landing, Nami and Gan Fall wondered about their location and Gan Fall comments to himself that he never knew such a place existed in the Upper Yard. After landing, Wyper realized that he has landed on Shandra. Nola appeared to be looking for something and later began to cry. Enel asked what the snake was fussing about and attacked Nola with Elthor. Zoro lamented that he is unable to save Nami from such an attack and on hearing that, Nami appeared from hiding. She went on to tell them that she escaped, however Luffy was still in the snake's stomach.
Wyper commented on how he blasted the python with many attacks of burn bazooka with no effect and the snake got knocked out from Enel's attack. Enel then appeared before Wyper telling him that the game is not over. Enel greeted Zoro, Robin, Wyper and Gan Fall telling them about the number of people that began the survival game including himself and that in three hours, there shouldn't be six people left (he was aware of Nami's presence). He gave the choice for them to either fight themselves or for him to pick an opponent. All four refused Enel's choice and told him he would be the one disappearing. Enel went on calling them "insolence".

Three Skypiean children are shown playing and come by Conis' house when one of the children commented on how nice Conis and Pagaya were. The second child says he heard they were evil because they helped the Blue Sea Dwellers escape and disobeyed God. One of the children comments that his father is in God's army and he had never seen his father before. The others praise him saying his dad is great for serving God. Conis is on her way to warn the Skypieans of the message she received not wanting the enforcers action to go in vain.
Enel laughs after hearing that he would be the one to disappear instead. Gan Fall inquires of his Enforcers and Enel's intention. Enel replies stating "ascension". He then goes on to tell Gan Fall that he is leaving Skypiea and intends to return to where God dwells calling the place Fairy Vearth, a limitless amount of land. Enel further tells them that everything has its rightful place, further stating his intention of killing every Skypiean. Gan Fall becomes angered and tells Enel that "God" is only a title given to the Governor of Skypiea. Enel states that was so until present and tells Gan Fall that he did something unpleasant to Gan Fall's enforcers. Enel explains to Gan Fall why his enforcers perished and Gan Fall flies into rage and attacks Enel. He remembers his distress towards coming to a compromise with the Shandia and how Enel came to take over his office. Enel then attacks Gan Fall using the 20,000,000 Volts: Vari.
Enel upon defeating Gan Fall, invites the remaining five to join him and embark to Fairy Vearth. Robin then asks if they refused, then what happens. Enel replies saying he decided already. Robin tells Enel if he destroys the island, what he seeks would be destroyed as well. However, Enel tells her the Golden Bell is accounted for. By following Robin's deductions, Enel is able to point out that the Shandorian Golden Belfry Bell is located at the top of the Giant Jack. He then shoots a lightening bolt to Robin for trying to manipulate him using her information. Zoro jumps in and catches Robin. Upset, Zoro goes on to attack Enel and Wyper shoots a Burn Bazooka at Enel, which he counters using Kari. He mentions that they were getting fussy just right before they embarked to Fairy Vearth. Zoro, filled with anger asks Enel when he decides to go with and went on to attack him. However, Enel overpowers and defeats Zoro.
Wyper uses the opportunity and grabs onto Enel. He has Seastone bandaged to his left arm and uses it to weaken Enel's strength. Enel asks if Wyper wants Vearth and Wyper responds that what he desired was death; thereby killing Enel and himself. He pays no attention to Enel's reason and goes on to attack Enel using his Reject Dial. Enel falls to the ground, unconscious.

In a flashback, the Shandia Chief is shown talking to a young Wyper and other young warriors telling them about the words inscribed on the Poneglyph and how the Shandia fought hard to protect the Poneglyph. Wyper was able to use the Seastone and Reject to attack Enel, which stopped Enel's heart. However, moments later, Enel was able to use his ability to reset the electrical waves in his heart thereby reviving himself. Enel indicated he warned Wyper initially, calling him Warrior Wyper several times which only angered Wyper who told Enel not to call his name without a reason. He told Enel that after 400 years of fighting to get to their homeland of Shandia, they are finally here and Enel is in the way. Enel commended Wyper for putting on a good fight but told him, he chose his opponent "poorly." With that, Enel struck one of his drums with his staff, and got an electrical discharge of 30,000,000, which appeared in the form of a bird and attacked Wyper with Uroquois, which defeated Wyper. Zoro used the opportunity to pick up the Seastone, however, Enel attacks and also defeats Zoro using Kiten.
Enel walked towards Nami who was the only unhurt person around and realized Wyper has got back on his feet. He questioned why Wyper still wants to fight after he's been sorely defeated. Wyper responded that he fights for his ancestors. Noting that he was hoping for a better answer, Enel struck Wyper using El Thor. With Nami left, she told Enel she would like to go with him to the Land of Dreams. Nami, taking her waver along, went along with Enel and had in mind to escape once the opportunity arises. Reaching their location, Nami was amazed by what she saw and Enel told her the flying ship is the first of its kind in the world. He told her he had used the gold from the City of Gold to build the Ark - Maxim. With the ark, he told her they would travel to a place with boundless land - Fairy Vearth.
Luffy, Aisa and Pierre finally made it out of the snake's stomach only for Luffy to run up the ruins and yell at the top of his voice that he made it out. Aisa upon seeing their current location, came to a conclusion that where they are at could be their homeland, Shandora. Looking around, Luffy spotted his crew and ran towards them only to realize that they have been defeated, including Zoro. Luffy questioned who must have done such a deed after seeing that even Wyper, who is strong, is defeated. Aisa mentioned that it was only Enel who could do something like that. Since her Mantra was ineffective while stranded in the belly of the snake, she was unable to tell what was occurring on the outside. Just then, Robin regained consciousness and told Luffy of Enel's intention in destroying all of Skypiea. Luffy inquired about the Golden Belfry and Robin told him the possibility of Enel getting to it. Aisa then told Luffy she knows their location as she is able to "hear" two voices on the island of their location. Luffy then told Aisa to take him to the location of the voices.

Conis is seen riding a waver towards Angel Island. At Lovely Street, McKinley announces to the public that Conis, Pagaya and Gan Fall, their former God, are on the run and that any information related to their capture should be reported to him and the White Berets. The citizens are concerned that if the three are hiding nearby, then God's judgement may land on the citizens as well. Just then, a soldier reports to McKinley that Conis has appeared at the harbor. As Conis advances with her waver, the White Berets are shooting arrows towards her. McKinley wonders why Conis is acting like she wants to be captured and proceeds to order for her capture. As the White Berets prepare to stop her advance, Conis continues to approach them with full speed, asking them to get out of her way. She manages to run over McKinley and as she jumps off of the waver, the waver crashes into McKinley and against a building. Conis finds herself surrounded by worried citizens who are afraid that God's judgement will be cast upon her, and that they'll get caught in it.
At the Arc Maxim, Enel is laughing and mentions to Nami that Conis has caused a scene at Angel Island, to which Nami responds that she was supposed to be at the Going Merry. Nami asks Enel about his Mantra abilities, particularly on his ability to identify people. Enel explains that he is able to use his lightning powers to read radio waves within Skypeia and if he hears a conversation he doesn't like, he casts his judgement. Nami begins to worry again and wonders how she'll escape. Enel stares at her direction and she asks him if something's wrong. Enel stares away and wonders whose presence he is sensing and then mentions to Nami that it was nothing.
Back at Angel Island, Conis is begging the crowd to hear her out, to which the citizens respond back to stay away from them. A soldier attempts to attack her but Conis aims her Burn Bazooka at him, threatening to shoot. She then tells the crowd to go to the edge of the clouds at Cloud End so they can escape by boats to the Blue Sea, as the island will be destroyed by Enel. The crowd remains skeptical and a child throws a tomato at her face. Conis drops her Burn Bazooka and McKinley wonders what she is about to do. Shocking the crowd, she yells out that she does not accept Enel as God. The crowd runs away and hides, as to not receive God's judgement.
Eventually, the crowd notices that nothing happened to her and she responds saying that there's no point to God casting judgement on her when the whole island will be eliminated. She tells them that this message is from a soldier who risked his life to tell Pagaya and her this information, before judgement was cast on her father and the soldier. The crowd remains uneasy, as the same child asks why a God that helps them would do such a thing. Conis again pleads them to go to Cloud End, but the citizens express concern on leaving their homeland and relocating in the unknown Blue Sea. She tells them this is better than getting killed and that for the past six years, they all should know what kind of man Enel is. The crowd remains uncertain, believing that the events she fears may not happen or that a miracle will save them.
In shock at the crowd's stubbornness, Conis shoots her Burn Bazooka into the clouds. She reminds them that Enel has the power to keep them in despair and that time is running out and that waiting for a miracle to happen won't save them. She concludes to them that lying low as victims is no longer safe and that they must take action now to leave the island, for they can no longer protect their lives by blaming someone later. The crowd is moved by this and many of them go to pack their things and head to Cloud End. Some members of the crowd remain, asking of the status of their family members that are part of the Divine Squad, to which she responds that she doesn't know. They ask what the Divine Squad is doing in the first place, and McKinley interrupts them saying the White Berets will figure it out and tells the crowd to go ahead and that the Divine Squad will catch up to them. 
The crowd is convinced and leaves, and McKinley tells Conis that he can't let this island turn into Birka, a southeastern sky island that Enel was raised on that disappeared six years ago, implying Enel destroyed his home island before coming to Skypeia. McKinley reveals that prior to Enel's arrival, McKinley used to serve under Gan Fall's Divine Squad. McKinley formed the White Berets knowing that while it would appear to betray the Divine Squad, he would be able to protect the island by enforcing Enel's rule. The White Berets gave the island years of stability by ensuring that no one would anger God, but McKinley now admits it was all for nothing if the island is truly eliminated. Conis tells McKinley that he had the people's safety prioritized, and that is nothing to be ashamed of. Conis asks him to continue to protect the people so she can help the Straw Hats escape.
Luffy and Aisa riding on Pierre are seen running towards the location of the Arc Maxim. Robin wakes up and realizes that she can't carry Zoro, Wyper, Chopper, Gan Fall and herself up the stalk to escape at once but that they still need to escape to the upper area. Enel realizes that the presence he senses is not one of the five that survived and wonders where this new presence was hiding. Enel jumps towards the edge of the Arc Maxim to see and hear Luffy screaming for him. Nami runs over to see a determined Luffy ready to fight back. As Enel and Luffy exchange words, Aisa and Pierre are hiding and witnessing their display and she worries for Luffy's safety. As Nami attempts to warn Luffy of Enel's powers, Enel stares at her which stops her from talking. Enel comments that he can hear Angel Island running about and that they must've realized what will happen to them. Luffy asks him what makes him God and Enel responds he'll know soon enough. Luffy runs up and stretches his arm to get onto a platform, to which Enel comments that Luffy is no ordinary human either, but only a Paramecia user. 
As Enel charges El Thor, Luffy rushes towards him, but El Thor is fired. Nami and Aisa scream at the display. As the smoke clears out, a giant hole is seen in the walls, and Luffy looks at it questionably before returning his gaze to Enel. To Nami's surprise and to Enel's amazement, Luffy dodged the attack. Enel charges up 60 Million Volt Jamboule and fires it at Luffy, which catches him this time. The smoke clears again to show an unharmed Luffy. Enel zaps out of his space to appear directly in front of Luffy this time and uses 100 Million Volt Vaari. Nami then realizes that Enel's attacks are useless, as electric attacks don't affect the rubber properties of Luffy's body. Luffy yells out that he's had enough and after that final attack by Enel failed, shocked faces from Nami, Aisa, Pierre and finally Enel are revealed. Enel shakes his head thinking that physical attacks won't harm his body but as Luffy runs towards him, he successfully kicks and damages Enel. Nami now realizes that Enel's lightning effects can't protect him either, and that Luffy may be the only natural enemy to Enel.


The episode starts as Nami rehashes what she realized at the end of the previous episode: that because rubber does not conduct electricity, Luffy is immune to Enel's lightning attacks. Enel wakes up and jumps away from Luffy. He does not understand what Luffy is and Luffy tells him that he is a pirate and a rubberman which puzzles Enel even more as the White-White Sea does not have rubber.
Luffy attacks Enel again but due to his mantra, Enel dodges every shot and starts to fight back with his golden staff and pins Luffy against a wall. He points out that lightning is not the only weapon he can use and once he realizes something does not work, he can adapt his strategy accordingly. Still, Luffy escapes and tells him hitting him won't work either. 
Both adversaries are frustrated at each other: Luffy because of Enel's mantra and Enel because he still does not understand what rubber is. Upon remembering that Luffy's Devil Fruit was a Paramecia-type, he uses his electric power to turn his golden cane into a spear and attacks Luffy with it. To Nami's dismay, Luffy does confirm out loud that piercing attacks work on him. 
The fight continues. Luffy tries to use the gatling gun attack in the air but Enel suddenly dematerializes and reappears through the gold of the ship to attack Luffy with the spear. Luffy dodges it but burns his hands holding the spear. As Enel explains that he can use his electric powers to heat the weapon, Luffy counterattacks him into the ground. Enel then grabs Luffy's arms and crashes him into the ground as well.
Getting up, Enel gives a speech about the new world he is going to start and how Luffy can't stop him and walks away. Using his lightning powers, he turns on Ark Maxim which starts lifting into the air. Aisa and Pierre who had been watching the fight from below are panicked about what to do. Nami is also panicked and tries to figure out what to do. If Enel is killed, the ark will crash into the ground since it runs on his powers but if they let him fly it, Skypiea will be destroyed. Standing up, Luffy throws his straw hat onto her head and tells her as the crewmate of the future Pirate King, she should have more faith. Enel is intrigued by the title and Luffy tells him the Pirate King rules the greatest sea in the world and Enel is appreciative, but the fight has to go on. Maxim starts to fly away but is slightly stuck on the walls of the cave. Aisa is riding Pierre and Pierre seems to suggest they should get on board as well but she tells him that a warrior's duel should never be interrupted and that this is Luffy's fight.
Meanwhile, the people of Angel Island are all rushing to get out of the island. McKinley is trying to guide them and avoid panic. He notices an old man who is just sitting there teary-eyed. He says he has believed in God for too long and is ready to accept whatever fate God has in store for him. But McKinley gives him a teary-eyed speech about how God does not have the right to take their lives away from them and they have a duty to survive. The old man decides to leave and his grandson is grateful to McKinley. Several villagers approach McKinley to tell him they are going to the Shandia Village to warn them too of the impending disaster.
Enel tells Luffy and Nami that the ship's "ultimate function" - Deathpiea - has been activated and the chimney starts spewing out black clouds into the sky. All around, the islands' people notice the clouds in the sky. Robin who has now gotten up is looking wistfully at Zoro, Chopper and Gan Fall, when Wyper notices the dark clouds. Some Shandia also look at them and say this is the first time it has ever happened in Skypiea and this portends bad news about the warriors that are on Upper Yard. The inhabitants of Angel Island also panic at the sight of the clouds and think this is the beginning of the end.
Enel explains that Deathpiea uses Enel's electric energy to condense intense air currents and create thunderclouds. Once they spread all over Skypiea, Enel will be able to destroy the whole island with lightning. To illustrate his point, he lifts his arm and a huge lightning bolt comes out of the thunderclouds and destroys several buildings on Angel Island in front of the horrified fleeing inhabitants. McKinley and then Conis on her waver both see this from afar and curse Enel. Enel tells Luffy and Nami that this was simply a "tease".
Luffy is appalled that being God means taking away anything Enel wants to take away. Enel says he will now take Luffy's life. The fight restarts and each combatant is able to dodge the others attacks although Luffy keeps burning his feet and hands with the spear any time he pushes it away.
After Enel could not predict one of Luffy's instinctive dodges of a spear attack and slightly damages the ship, Luffy gets an idea and puts himself in a Gomu Gomu no Daze state. Enel keeps attacking with his spear but Luffy bobs and weaves like a "grass in the wind" and does not get hurt. Nami realizes that Luffy's plan was to put himself into an "unthinking" mode. He reflexively dodges the attack using the air currents but because he is in a daze, he does so unconsciously and Enel's mantra can't predict what his movements are going to be.
Luffy snaps himself out of it and points out that in that dazed state, he can't go on the attack. Then Luffy goes Gomu Gomu no Tako (Octopus) and Nami is appalled he is trying out a new silly idea. Luffy's arms and legs turn into tentacles and Luffy turns around and starts to punch like crazy at a wall of Maxim's. Enel is nonplussed and thinks Luffy is trying to destroy the ship. Enel lunges at Luffy but Luffy's hundreds of punching arms ricochet from the wall back onto Enel and Enel is pummeled. Nami realizes that because the hits are coming from the natural ricochet of the punches on the wall and not anything Luffy is thinking, Enel can't see them coming.
Luffy "bazooka-es" into Enel and Enel is weakened and bloodied and starts to panic. As the episode ends, we see Luffy lunging at Enel preparing a Gomu Gomu no Rifle attack and an obviously desperate Enel trying to get up and telling himself he needs to get away.

As the episode begins, Luffy finishes his Gomu Gomu no Rifle attack on Enel and punches him into one of the golden walls of Ark Maxim.
At that moment, Ark Maxim gets unstuck and starts rising in the air. Aisa and Pierre who are flying to the side watch and panic about what to do. A bleeding Enel gets back up and gives a big speech about how once he beats Luffy, he will be able to have his own world where he is feared and worshiped again and nothing is impossible because he is God.
The people of Angel Island are still fleeing and some of them notice in disbelief of the Ark flying in the sky. They notice the black clouds are coming out of it and surmise God must be on board. On some clouds further away, the Shandia are gathered and notice the Angel Islanders boarding so many boats and wonder what is going on. A boat approaches and an Angel Islander on it warns the Shandia that the land is on the brink of destruction and they should board their own ships immediately as well to flee to the Blue Sea.
Robin has started to move Chopper and Zoro's bodies and sees the Ark in the sky. She immediately guesses this is Enel's doing. Enel tells Luffy that the Angels will soon perish and nothing can stop him. Luffy lounges at Enel but Enel uses his electricity to melt some of the gold wall and traps Luffy's hand in the extremely hot golden ball that was formed. Enel tells Luffy that he will not bother continue fighting him and rolls the balls off the flying ship. Thanks to his stretchy arm and the side wall of the ship, Luffy resists but the ball in which Luffy's hand is encased is pulling him down like an anchor. Enel tells Luffy that now that Luffy is restrained Enel is supreme again. Angrily, Luffy tells him that down on the Blue Sea, there are plenty of other people with similar abilities that can beat him too. A furious Enel uses his spear to destroy the shipwall Luffy was using to resist being pulled down and Luffy starts to fall into a massive hole below. Luffy curses Enel and screams at him to actually fight.
Aisa and Pierre see this and starts flying near Luffy to help him. Enel notices them and realizes they are the two extra voices he could feel. He then proceeds to launch a "God's Judgment" thunderbolt at the three. Nami screams in despair. Conis on her waver sees the Ark and guesses that this is what the Enforcers were being forced to build. She flashbacks to Nami showing her the meeting point of the Straw-Hat Pirates on the Northeast coast of the island and decides to go there and reach the Going Merry to guide them down to the Blue Sea once they all gather back there - as only she can tell them how to escape Skypiea.
Sanji is speaking in his sleep and is having a beautiful dream where he is in paradise with Nami. In his sleep, he starts to cuddle with Usopp and wakes up horrified and disappointed as he wanted to stay in the dream with Nami. Now up, he wonders where Nami is and bolts onto the deck. He sees the ark in the air and is surprised and some kind of "special ability" allows him to see from afar that Nami is on board. He does not understand what is going on. Sanji wakes Usopp up and tells him to get ready to rescue Nami. Usopp is confused but remembers God's appearance on the boat. Sanji feels guilty about being unable to prevent Nami being kidnapped by God. Sanji shows Usopp the Ark and both are confused. What is going on? Where is everyone? All Sanji knows is that Nami was on the Ark and she wasn't wearing her T-shirt. Sanji and a reluctant Usopp run into the forest to try and board the Ark before it gets away too far from them. Sanji wants to use Usopp AAaaaAAAaaaAA, the belt with a rope and a hook that Usopp used earlier in the Lost Forest.
Enel retells Nami his plans to destroy Skypiea and ascend to Fairy Vearth using Ark Maxim. He also tells himself he needs to get the Golden Bell that Robin had mentioned to him earlier first. Nami looks upset and Enel asks her about the future she desires now that she has survived that long. She tells him that there is plenty that she wants to have and wants to do but if she follows Enel, she will be alone. Without her friends, then there is nothing that she actually wants. Enel assumes that must include her life as well.
Conis is now on the Going Merry and asks Su what is going on and why Sanji and Usopp are gone. Su tells her of their plan to jump in the Ark to save Nami and Conis thinks that this is too dangerous because of the injuries they sustained.
Sanji is on a high rock as the Ark is flying over them and despite Usopp's bout of "can't-go-to-high-places" disease, they launch the Usopp AAaaaAAAaaaAA and Sanji kicks it toward the Ark. Enel lectures Nami about her foolish decision to forgo her only chance to survive and tells her the only place she can go upon leaving the ship is the afterlife. Sanji is climbing the rope that is now hooked onto the lower decks of the Ark while Usopp - who is wearing the belt at the other end of the rope - is dangling in the air and screaming below. Sanji says that if God Enel harms Nami, Sanji will have to turn into the Devil of the Blue Sea.
Nami is facing Enel and is pumping herself up. She tells herself she will put everything she has to survive this and, thinking of the rest of the crew, she wants to be able to sail the sea with them one more time. As the episode ends, we see Enel standing up while Nami looks at him with a determined look on her face... and holding the Clima-Tact behind her back.

As the episode starts, we are back to the Enel and Nami stand-off. Enel tells Nami that she obviously can't leave the ship "safely" now that she has told him all those things. Nami thinks to herself that she has no regrets about doing that because even though she knows she can't beat Enel, she can't stay on the ship either. Enel shocks Nami by asking her if she is counting on the "two rats" that have snuck aboard (meaning Sanji and Usopp) to save her.
Usopp - who is now also climbing the outside wall of the ship thanks to some weird starfish shoes while hanging to the rope - is complaining and moaning about being scared of getting on the Ark Maxim and not knowing what to expect on there. He also assumes that there must be thousands of people on a ship that big. Sanji tells him to stop complaining and be stronger as he and his inventions are sorely needed to help. He mentions that Enel probably already knows of their presence thanks to his mantra ability. Once they have entered a large opening on the ship, Sanji suggests - to Usopp's great dismay - that they split up and head straight to the deck. Usopp thinks this means Sanji is assuming at least one of them is bound to die and Sanji tells him that if that saves Nami, he is OK with Usopp potentially dying! Sanji heads inside with Usopp running behind.
Enel thinks the two intruders are fools to try and save Nami and Nami is confused who it could be since the only one whom she knows is still able to move is Luffy. Enel tries to attack Nami with a lightning strike but she manages to dodge. Enel tells her that since the three of them are bound to die anyway, he won't wait for her defenders and might as well start getting rid of her now. Nami is brainstorming what to do to defend herself.
Sanji and Usopp are separately running through the inside the ship and are amazed at the elaborate machinery that is keeping it flying. They both remark to themselves that nobody seems to be around and that the ship seems to be automated even though Usopp is confused on how that could work.
In the ruins of Shandora, Robin is using her Hana Hana no Mi abilities to carry Zoro, Wyper and the others' bodies near Giant Jack. She remarks on the sky getting darker which she thinks means Enel will start the destruction soon and bemoans the fact the Golden Bell is probably right above their heads. 
On Angel Island, the inhabitants are still piling up on boats to flee to the White Sea and someone comments on how ominous the Ark looks.
At the Shandia Village, some Shandia are stunned at the idea of leaving the warriors behind but the Shandia Chief tells them to have faith in them and that everyone must take care of their own problems first. He tells them that Enel is going to destroy Skypiea like he destroyed Birka and it is time to get ready and flee. The Shandia start running around and the Chief thinks of Wyper and the upcoming "end" of everything.
On the Going Merry, Conis thinks back of meeting the Straw Hat Pirates and is frustrated that even though it is right here in front of her, she cannot know what is going on on Upper Yard. She prays for their safety.
In a hole on the ground, Aisa is crying over Pierre's apparently lifeless body and thanks him for protecting her. She hears Luffy crying out for her and finds he landed in a very awkward position. Luffy manages to lift the golden ball in which his hand is still encased over his head and tells Aisa that this is not over. He knows where the Ark is headed and tells Aisa they are going to the giant beanstalk they earlier found Robin near to.
Nami is using the Clima-Tact to dodge one of Enel's attacks and Enel is amused. Nami is apparently using the Thunder Ball ability of the Clima-Tact to create a path for Enel's lightning attacks to follow away from her. Enel is impressed but says that he just can change his attack so that trick won't work anymore. As he is about to act on his threat, Usopp throws a Hissatsu Kaenboshi at him. Enel and Nami are both surprised to see Usopp and Usopp is surprised to see Sanji is not up on the deck yet so, scared, he runs back inside.
Usopp decides to be courageous and runs back out on the deck and dodges several of Enel's lightning attacks. Then he asks Nami to save him but Nami berates him reminding him he is supposed to be the one saving her. As the two banter, Enel launches another lightning attack and they dodge. Usopp remarks on Nami having the straw hat and she tells him Luffy was just there and got thrown off but will be OK. Usopp says they can't count on Luffy to save them and they are going to have to make it on their own. They dodge another lightning attack.
Usopp suggests they hide behind the big electric tube at the center of the deck since it seems to be powering up something important and Enel will be reluctant to use big attacks near it. Nami points out her Waver is still somewhere on the deck and they can try jumping off the ship with that. Usopp is worried about the height but Nami tells him of an island cloud patch on the island below (that happens to be around Giant Jack) that they are flying over and can try to land on if they go with that plan. Enel attacks Usopp with lightning again. Usopp tells Nami he will distract Enel while she gets everything ready.
Usopp jumps on the electric tube and proclaims an Usopp Spell in which the victim must think of having needles stuck under their nails. Nami is the one distracted by the thought however which irritates Usopp. Usopp tries several other cringe-worthy thoughts to cast an Usopp spell on Enel, but Enel is not plussed and lifts in the air and knocks Usopp with his golden cane. Nami gets the waver but as she screams to Usopp she is ready, Enel burns Usopp's body with his lightning. Enel then turns his attention to Nami and tells her escaping won't be easy. As Enel walks towards her, Nami rides the Waver past him toward Usopp who is showing signs of life and she tells him, as she approaches him, to grab her hand. Usopp lifts his hand for Nami to grab him on the way off the ship but Enel uses his cane to push it back down and Nami rides past Usopp without being able to catch him.
Enel tells Usopp it is too late for him to be saved and as he prepares to strike the final lightning blow, Sanji jumps in, kick-lifts Usopp's body from the floor onto Nami's waver and tells both of them to go off the ship. Nami wants to turn around and help Sanji but Usopp pushes on the accelerator telling her to respect Sanji's resolve to save them and they ride the Waver off the ship and fall into the air. Meanwhile, Enel launches a massive lightning attack at a calm-looking Sanji.
After the attack is done, Enel says that while Nami and Usopp jumped off, they have yet to escape since his attacks can reach them anywhere. But he notices that Sanji, while blackened and apparently weakened, is still standing at the same spot. Sanji thanks Enel for lighting his cigarette and tells him to get ready to cry before collapsing on the floor. Enel shrugs Sanji off before suddenly some parts of Ark Maxim stop working. The black clouds stop coming out of the chimney and some electric connections become unstable. Enel curses Sanji and wonders out loud what that insolent mortal has done to his ship.

The episode starts with Enel shrugging off Sanji then hearing the explosion and seeing the black clouds are not coming out of the chimney anymore. Enel curses Sanji and figured one of the gears must have been dislodged. He dematerializes to go reset it.
Sanji's blackened and seemingly lifeless body is still on the deck. We see Usopp has hooked the Usopp AAaaaAAAaaaAA on a sidewall of the ship and is climbing up the side thanks to his starfish-shoes. He peeks on the deck and sees Enel is gone. Usopp talks to Sanji's body and reassures him that Nami landed safely. Then he carries Sanji's body to the edge of the boat and thinking on how he needs to lands on the island cloud and not in the jungle or the ruins, he uses some special spring shoes - Usopp Hopping - to jump off the ship in the air while carrying a still-unconscious Sanji in his arms. Unfortunately, he jumps too far and starts to panic when he sees his landing spot is going to be right in the middle of the jungle. As he is about to crash though, the rope he is still attached to held him back and they start dangling in the air. The hook then gives in and they start falling back down but land on some island clouds. Nami who is watching from afar goes to get them with her Waver. Nami thanks Sanji who is still unconscious for saving her then tries to pull an upside down Usopp out of the cloud.
On Ark Maxim, we see pipes bursting, glass breaking and pieces of machineries giving in. Enel who is walking inside the ship curses Sanji again. But he then confidently says that it won't be that easy to drop the Ark from the sky as there is a back-up system based on technology from his homeland of Bilka. Using the power of 200 extinct Jet Dials, the Ark can stay in the air for a full extra hour after the propulsion mechanisms have failed. Enel is confident that the "final performance" is still coming and using his physical strength starts repairing pieces that were out of joint.
Back on the ground, Nami tells Usopp of the giant bean stalk being also in the ruins of the City of Gold and therefore they must have landed right above it on a higher cloud. Usopp is a bit confused but tells her the priority is to leave because if they stay where they are (with the Ark hovering above them), they could be in trouble. Nami agrees they need to find the others and get off the island.
We see Luffy and Aisa running through the ruins. Aisa is dragging Pierre by the beak and Luffy is running with his arm stretched by the weight of the golden ball behind him. As he runs though, the ball starts getting her own momentum and rolling on her own taking Luffy with her in the wrong direction. Aisa is irritated with Luffy for destroying Shandora by crashing into the walls.
On the Ark, the thunderclouds are being released again. Enel is satisfied and looking forward to his "final gala" but is irritated that Sanji's body is gone.
An out-of-breath Luffy has finally arrived at the site of the earlier "Final 5" battle but he and Aisa are surprised to see everyone gone - Robin, Zoro, Chopper, Wyper and Gan Fall. They guess that Robin must have used her ability to get everyone back on higher ground already. Aisa is very upset looking at the giant hole Enel's final attack on Wyper had created in the ground. She flashbacks to Robin telling them about Enel's plan to destroy Skypiea and tearingly asks Luffy if this is really going to happen.
Luffy is running up the beanstalk with Aisa and Pierre on his back and still dragging his golden-ball-encased arm behind him. Aisa is hopeful she will get to see Wyper once arrived up there.
We see Robin looking up the stalk and reflecting on the fact the Ark is heading towards the Great Belfry as she expected. She hopes Nami and the boys are safe and are not on board anymore. Luffy is running higher on the stalk and Aisa notices Robin below. She points it out to Luffy who then throws Aisa and Pierre in the air for Robin to take care of. Robin catches them with her Hana Hana no Mi abilities but Luffy is dragged lower down the stalk by the golden ball that had gotten caught in the movement when he threw Aisa below. Robin wonders what the golden ball is about and Luffy confirms with her that the Golden Bell should be at the top of the stalk and that it is what Enel is aiming for. In the background, Aisa is still freaked out about witnessing Robin's multiple arms. And then Luffy's gone before Robin finishes her explanations. Robin then inquires with Aisa about Nami's fate. Aisa first says Nami should be on the Ark then realizes her mantra ability can only pick up one voice left up in the air.
Nami, Usopp and a still-unconscious Sanji arrive on the Waver and everyone reunites. Usopp is upset to see Zoro, Chopper and the others unconscious on the ground and says that if he had been there... Nami inquires about Luffy and Aisa tells her he went up the stalk to face Enel and save her. Everyone commiserates about Luffy and needing to get off the island soon. Nami tells the others to go back to the Going Merry while she is going up the stalk to follow Luffy.
Luffy is still running up the Ark cursing Enel.
At the Shandia village, the Shandia are still rushing to board the ships out of there. One lady is worried about Aisa but the Shandia Chief hopes she is with one of the warriors.
On Angel Island, the sky is still turning dark and people still rushing to flee. Some of the White Berets are informing McKinley they need to use the ships at the wharf, otherwise they won't have enough space to fit everyone. McKinley says there is no time to go there and urges them to create a river with some emergency Dials. Half of the islanders are still on the island and after angrily remembering Conis' speech urging the islanders to flee, McKinley tells the White Berets not to let people take any belongings with them to make sure everyone leaves.
We see that the Milky Road is jammed with boats trying to leave. At Heaven's Gate, Amazon is taking pictures of the fleeing boats and asking for a 2,000,000,000 extol disembarkation fee. People on the boats try to warn her to leave too as Skypiea is about to be destroyed.
At the Going Merry, Conis notices the wind has stopped. Suddenly we hear then see lightning coming out of the thunderclouds and burning trees and attacking buildings and people on Angel Island. Nami, Usopp and the others see the lightning starting to strike and are shocked. Enel says the time has come and the lightning starts to intensify. The jungle on Upper Yard and buildings on Angel Island are getting destroyed and people are panicking. The wharf gets attacked by the lightning and the White Berets try to direct the remaining islanders to the beach where there still are some boats left.
On the Shandia village, the boats still have not left and the Shandia Chief prays to Kalgara for protection.
The huge lightning bolts are destroying parts of Upper Yard and Usopp and the others are getting thrown around. Suddenly, Wyper opens his eyes. Nami again tells the others to flee while she goes to get Luffy. She rides the Waver up the stalk. While Usopp asks Robin to help carry the unconscious bodies, Aisa sees Wyper has woken up and is standing. Zoro and Gan Fall both wake up at that point. Gan Fall asks if Enel has started yet. Chopper, Sanji and Pierre are still unconscious. Robin tells everyone to hurry because there is nothing they can't do here anymore. Wyper seems to be looking wistfully at the destruction before them.
Nami is riding up the beanstalk worrying how Luffy is going to fight an enemy that can fly. Enel is looking at the lightning destroying Upper Yard and enjoying the spectacle. Luffy is running up the beanstalk, golden ball in tow, warning Enel he is not going to get away with it.

As Enel watches the destruction, Usopp urges everyone to hurry before everything gets destroyed, and Luffy vows to make Enel pay while running up the stalk. Enel notices the Shandia Village and comments that because they are originally from the Blue Sea, they may "enjoy" his plan to destroy Skypiea, sending it back down to the Blue Sea. He then directs the lightning to specifically destroy the village. The Shandia watch in horror from the boat and remark they could have been destroyed along with their village had they not evacuated as fast as they did.
Wyper reminisces about his oath to Kalgara to light the fire of Shandora while Aisa tries to get him to go. He remembers the Shandia Chief telling him as a child about Kalgara's other reason for wanting to protect their homeland. That reason was a friend Kalgara had made, Mont Blanc Noland.
400 years ago, a crew was fleeing on a beach towards their anchored ship. The "Demon of Shandora" was on their heels, said one of the crew members. The captain set sail but Kalgara theew the ball-shaped anchor at the ship and jumped aboard to attack the crew. He told them to leave everything and go.
On another ship at sea, Admiral Mont Blanc Noland was told the ship was out of food. He jumped in the water. The crew speculated on him abandoning them but he came back up to the surface, having captured a huge fish for them to eat. The same ship was later caught in a storm. Noland was writing in his logbook when he heard a bell in the distance.
On an island, a dying priest whose skin was covered with green stains told the men surrounding him that Shandia was cursed and that to save the village, a girl must be offered to the Sacrificial Altar. The priest died and the Shandia around him commented that there have been a hundred victims already.
In a castle chamber, Mousse said that if it would save the village, she was willing to offer her body and was looking forward to meeting the Sun God. Her mother sobbed.
A crying young man called Seto was in the forest in the rain trying to get the same type of green skin stain off his arm with a rock. Kalgara walked by and Seto angrily told him he had wanted to be like him one day and instead he was going to die "like this".
The storm was dying down and Noland's crew was grateful to him that he had directed them to the island. However, they did not hear the bell like he did. The crew went to shore and saw a Southbird, so they thought the weird sound it makesmade must have been what the Admiral had heard. The bell rang at that moment and they commented on the beauty of its sound. Noland guessed this meant the island was inhabited.
As they went into the jungle, they ran into Seto. The Doctor diagnosed Seto's weird stains as Tree Fever and Noland ordered the crew to get some conine to administer to the boy and the whole crew. They arrived at the Shandia town and noted with sadness that even the crop was infected and the whole village was sick.
At the Sacrificial Altar, Mousse was brought by boat to the altar while a priest was delivering a prayer for the village to be saved from the disease. As Mousse was tied down on the altar, Kashigami swam to the altar and hovered over the girl. As the giant snake was about to eat Mousse, Noland jumped in the water, climbed the altar, and beheaded Kashigami, much to thr horror of the Shandia who had come to pray to the Gods for the safety of their loved ones. Noland comforted a crying Mousse but the villagers were infuriated and screamed for both of them to be killed to appease the Gods that surely must be furious at one of them having been killed. Noland's crew was worried for him and, encouraged by the cries of the crowd, Kalgara swam to the altar and attacked Noland.
Noland introduced himself as an explorer from the North Sea and tried to defend himself to Kalgara who wanted to hear nothing of it. While Noland fought him to a standstill, Kalgara threw a knife at Mousse and encouraged her to kill herself to appease the Gods. Noland stopped her but Kalgara speared him from behind.
Noland's crew had been taken hostage by some of Kalgara's warriors who were holding knives to their throats. Kalgara ranted that any intruders were banned from the island and that on top of it Noland had killed a god and his life alone would not atone for this. They must all be killed. An infuriated Noland dismissed those notions of sacrifice as a disgrace and lectured Kalgara about progress. He said that if their Gods cared about the Shandia's lives, then those rituals were the complete opposite of what they would want. Noland told the villagers he would "lift the curse" and cure the disease but he needed time and if he ended up not keeping his word, then they should feel free to do whatever they wanted to him and his crew. In exchange, if he did save them, they must swear never to hold human sacrifices again.
The villagers were furious and Kalgara dismissed him and startdd to attack him once more. The Shandia Chief interrupted and told them to give Noland a chance. He had until tomorrow evening to cure them all and then his fate shall be decided.
Noland's crew were locked into a cage and worried about getting killed tomorrow. Mousse who was in a nearby cage asked about Noland. They explained to her that he was a skilled explorer and botanist traveling around the seas to find new species for his research but got into trouble every once in a while.
A council was gathered and upset at the chief for giving Noland a chance. The chief pointed out there was nothing to lose by waiting. Kalgara said that if he felt the slightest bit of threat from Noland, he would not wait until tomorrow to kill him. The chief said that while he could not hear the words of the Gods, he knew to recognize the words of a wise man. Kalgara stormed out and ran into Seto outside who said he was cured and wondered what Noland meant when he mentioned "progress".
In the forest, Noland was happy to have found a Kona Tree.
The ground suddenly started shaking and the villagers thought this was an earthquake to punish them for what had happened. After it stopped, Kalgara went onto a high rock to assess the damage and saw part of the forest was sinking. He spotted Noland injured and stuck in a crevice and comescame nearby to gloat that God had punished Noland himself. Noland and Kalgara exchanged some unpleasant words until Noland said he had to get out of that spot he was stuck into and hurry to the village. Kalgara said he wanted to stay and watch him try to do that.

This episode is the continuation of the flashback from 400 years ago.
The villagers are still enraged by the earthquake that they think was punishment for Noland killing Kashigami. They gather around the cage in which Noland's crew is held prisoner and prepare to execute them to appease the Gods. However, Seto sits down in front of the cage to block the way - to the villagers' dismay - and tells them they should be ashamed of themselves.
In the forest, Noland is still stuck in the crevice as Kalgara gloats and tells him this is the punishment of the Gods and his crew will be dead by the end of the evening. Noland struggles to get out and Kalgara is impressed by his efforts.
The sun is setting and the crew as well as Mousse are being led to the Sacrificial Altar. Kalgara is still gloating at Noland but Noland is defiant and confronts Kalgara about the moral disgrace that are human sacrifices. Kalgara beats Noland up while defending his people's traditions. The villagers are getting ready to burn the crew and Mousse.
Noland continues to guilt Kalgara about their rituals and Kalgara reveals that he believes so strongly in them that Mousse is actually his daughter and he was ready to let her die because of his faith in the Priest's words. Both men hear a noise in the forest and it is another large python - although smaller than Kashigami. Kalgara speculates it must be Kashigami's son that came to avenge his father. Noland explains to Kalgara that the Tree Fever struck his own village 60 years ago and that they did discover a cure called conine that he can extract from the bark of the Kona Tree  that he had gone to get in the forest and still holds in his hand. Kalgara is obviously troubled and Noland shames him about stepping in the way of progress and letting his village die of the disease. The python suddenly attacks Noland but Kalgara strikes and kills it. Kalgara is anguished about what he has done (since he believes the python is a aod) but tearfully asks Noland whether he can really save his village.
Noland's crew administer the cure, to the delight of the villagers Kalgara is also tearingly reunited with his daughter. Noland recovers from his injuries as well and everybody is happy and getting along. Later Kalgara and Noland's crew are walking in the forest and encounter a mini-version of the earlier python - Kashigami's grandson. Kalgara and Noland are getting along great to the crew's astonishment. They comment on how happy Noland looks.
Kalgara leads Noland and his crew to a spot and the bell starts ringing. They go down some stairs and they are in Shandora. Noland and everyone are amazed. The city is all covered in gold and the rest of the villagers is there as well ringing the bell. Kalgara tells the crew about Shandora. 
Noland's crew rushes to get some treasure and Noland tries to stop them. But Kalgara says it is fine, and except for the belfry they can take what they want as a thank you for saving the village. They never cared about the Gold. What they were protecting was a special stone on which a Poneglyph is written. Kalgara says no one knows how to read it but their ancestors fought to protect it and they want to honor their ancestors by protecting this stone that symbolizes their victory. Kalgara also explains that the Shandorian Golden Belfry Bell allows the souls of their ancestors to come back to their Land safely and to tell them the villagers are still here protecting Shandora. That's why they call it the Fire of Shandora. Noland comments on hearing the ringing of the bell in the storm. Both men comment on the snake growing up to be as big as his forebears. Kalgara invites Noland to stay as long as they want and Noland thanks him saying he wants to finish ridding the village of the Tree Fever and to collect some plant samples as well. Some members of the crew tell Noland there was an Eternal Pose and a map in the treasure. The map shows the island and Kalgara mentions that Shandora means "Right eye of the Skull" as the island is shaped like a skull. Later, Noland shows the curious villagers a pumpkin the crew had grown in the greenhouse on their ship and gives them some seeds to grow it themselves.
The villagers, upset and angry about something the crew has done, refuse to talk to the crew. They are "Killers of Gods" regardless of whether they saved the villagers or not. The Chief tells them not to confront them since they are leaving soon anyway. Noland and his crew happily arrive at the village but everyone shuns them and goes home. Seto tells Noland that Kalgara does not want to see him and reminds them they should leave soon. Noland's crew is puzzled. Kalgara is seen sulking in Shandora and tells a villager he will kill Noland if he sees him.
Later on the beach the crew notices the bell hasn't been rung today for the first time since they have been on the island. Noland tells the crew they have two more days of work to do on the island and then they will leave. He reminisces about Kalgara offering him Muse's hand in marriage (that he turned down on account of his own family back home) and then Seto's hostile word and runs to Shandora to confront Kalgara. He wants to know what they have done but Kalgara launches a spear at Noland grazing his cheek and asks him if he came here to die and to leave. Noland is stunned.

The flashback of Mont Blanc Noland continues.
Noland's crew is sitting down around a campfire discussing the recent events and how upset Noland is at the villagers suddenly turning their back on him. They mention they are leaving tomorrow and that the bell still has not been rung.
Noland is nearby remembering Kalgara's words of anger to him when they met in Shandora earlier. Mousse is also shown looking pensively at the night sky from her bedroom window.
The Doctor of Noland's crew is drinking alone while his comrades are sleeping and bemoans the situation when a cloaked Mousse appears behind him and startles him.
Kalgara is looking at a grove of cut-down trees and curses Noland. He angrily rants about what Noland has done.
Mousse explains to the Doctor that those trees were sacred to them as they believe the souls brought back by the Golden Bell reside in those trees and watch over the Shandia. The Doctor sadly acknowledges the crew chopped them down and Mousse tells him the only reason the villagers did not attack them is out of regard for their earlier help with the Tree Fever. Mousse says even if they did not know about the significance of the trees, the villagers will never forgive them but she wanted them to at least know why they were angry. 
The next day on Noland's boat, the Doctor reports to Noland what Mousse said and Noland is appalled and feels guilty. He understands the villagers because the bell now has lost its purpose because of them. Noland then tells the crew they are leaving the treasure behind and the crew is appalled.
At the village someone mentions Noland and his crew leaving and some villagers look grumpily conflicted. Mousse runs into town and starts rumbling out of breath to her father Kalgara. She asks what they would do if they knew one tree was infected and was going to poison the rest of the island and starts to cry. Mousse begs her father to go talk to the crew before they leave and tells him he will regret it later if he does not go say goodbye to the best friend he ever had. Mousse flashbacks to the rest of her earlier conversation with the Doctor who explains that the grove in question was already dead and infected with Tree Fever. As the plague infects both people and plants, the crew had to chop them down to prevent those trees from infecting the rest of the island and killing the villagers again.
Seto and the villagers are stunned to hear they did it to protect them. Kalgara rushes to the beach to beg Noland for forgiveness.
At the beach, the pile of treasure has been left behind. Some of Noland's crew are upset. Noland addresses them and tells them it is time to go back home to the Kingdom of Lvneel. Full of regrets and guilt, Kalgara is still running to reach the beach.
As the boat sets sail, the Golden Bell starts ringing again. Noland hears it and is shocked. We see Seto and the other villagers are all crying and ringing the bell hoping Noland and his crew will hear it before they go. Then Kalgara burst onto the beach and screams Noland's name. He remembers moments of their friendship and cries. He screams at Noland to come back again. He says he will wait for Noland's return and keep ringing the bell so that Noland's crew can find their way back even in a bad storm.  Noland is also in tears and swear he will come back and they shall meet again.
Back at the Kingdom of Lvneel, the narrator tells about Mont Blanc Noland and his tales that no one knows whether they are true. They show him returning from his trip and telling the King about Shandora.
Five years later, the King says Mary Geoise has approved Noland's return trip to Shandora but instead of his usual crew, the King himself and his army will accompany Noland there. Noland seems pleased.
Back on Jaya Island, a grown-up Seto accompanies Kalgara to their daily ring of the bell. They greet Nora, the now slightly grown python who is Kashigami's grandson and who now lives in the ruins. Seto wonders when Noland will be back but Kalgara is patient and says he will come back some time but he understands his family is in the North Seas. Kalgara trust that if they keep ringing the bell, Noland will be back.
However at that moment the Southbirds starts screaming and the sky becomes very dark. Kalgara and Seto rush back to the village to protect it. The ground starts breaking and we see Mont Blanc Cricket's now-house being torn in the middle by the island break. Rocks are flying and we see the Knock Up Stream bursting out of the middle of the island.
Noland followed by the King and his army is now on the island looking at the half-house in despair wondering where the rest of the island has gone. The King attacks Noland and accuses him of deceiving him about the gold. Noland worries about Kalgara and wants to hear the Fire of Shandora to know his friend is OK.
Noland's execution back at Lvneel is about to begin. A crowd has gathered and Noland retells them the story of Jaya Island and the City of Gold. One of the King's advisers invite a member of Noland's crew to hear what he has to say. That man appears and tells the crowd and the King this is all a lie. The crowd is shocked and thinks Noland is a horrible man. Some actual members of Noland's crew step forward from the crowd and scream the man is an impostor and try to tell people of Kalgara but they are restrained. Noland is about to be executed and the crowd heckles him and calls him a liar while his men cry.
The Shandia part of Jaya is shown being burst into the sky by the Knock Up Stream and impaling itself on Giant Jack. As the Golden Bell flies in the sky, it rings and the people on Angel Island hear it in awe. A man who is the then-God of Skypiea telling his enforcers this is the birth of a Holy Land and that he should live on this Vearth.
Back in the Shandia village, everybody is in shock. There are many injured. God appears in the village with his enforcers and Kalgara and some of his men attack them to protect the land. 
As he is about to be put to death, Noland wonder where Kalgara is. As he is about to attack God, Kalgara worries about what Noland will think when he comes back to Jaya and does not find his friend there. He reiterates his hope that they can meet again.
Back to Wyper's flashback, the Village Chief tells young Wyper that Kalgara kept thinking of Noland all through that battle and hoped that if he could just ring the Golden Bell once more, he could let his friend know he is alive and thinking of him. Unfortunately, he never got to do it. Some time later, a ship from the Blue Sea went up to Skypiea and told the Shandia what had happened to Noland. Kalgara continued to be a great warrior in the sky but always regretted never being able to tell his feelings to his friend. Young Wyper wonders if ringing the bell now would still reach Noland and let him know of Kalgara's friendship. Maybe, says the Chief ...
Back to the present, Aisa is tugging at Wyper to leave as the island is being destroyed. Wyper finally speaks and curses Enel.
Enel looks at the destruction and is enjoying it. 
McKinley is yelling at people to hurry the evacuation but the lightning is striking some boats as well. Some White Berets inform McKinley there are casualties and McKinley orders everyone to the boats. They will get care there. As McKinley worries about Conis, a huge lightning bolt strikes Angel Island.
Back on the Going Merry, Conis is still silently praying.
At the bottom of Giant Jack, Robin comments that the ark will soon be at the top and she tells Gan Fall that what Enel wants is the Golden Bell hidden at the top. Wyper overhears.
Enel mocks the fleeing angels and strikes at the boats with lightning. At Heaven's Gate some of the fleeing angels look in horror as a hole opens in the White White Sea above them and some boats fall down. Enel also destroys his former home of God's Shrine with lightning strikes and strikes Shandora below as well. Enel mentions the only thing on this land that interests him is the Golden Belfry. But he frowns when he realizes he hears two "voices" approaching.
Nami is on her Waver a bit lower on the stalk from Luffy trying to keep up with him.
Luffy (with his ball behind him) is still running, expressing concern for Nami and swearing Enel won't put his hands on the Golden Bell.

The scene starts with the group at the foot of the beanstalk with Wyper asking about the golden bell. Usopp is completely lost as Wyper continues by asking Robin where the bell is. Usopp begs to get out in fear for his life as Robin tells Wyper it's at the top of the beanstalk. Robin says the ruins spoke of the city landing on Giant Jack which sent the bell flying high up into the clouds.
Then there is a quick flash back of the crew walking through the forest. Then Enel speaks of finally having the bell as Luffy catches up to Enel so much so that Enel notices him and sends a lightning bolt at Luffy which he avoids, but it causes giant jack to split causing Luffy to fall with it. Wyper tries to climb the beanstalk but notices it has been cut. "Great warrior Kalgara longs to hear its sound... that is our goal," says Wyper. Luffy tries to climb the stalk but is struggling to hang on as Enel mocks him saying he'll show him something miraculous.
Then Luffy uses the golden ball and his rubber ability "Gomu Gomu Yo-Yo" to fling himself up but ends up breaking the vine and falling down. Nami runs over him to the surprise of Luffy as he thought he'd succeeded in flying up higher.
The scene cuts to the city dwellers questioning a giant ball that Nami explains is a thunderhead bursting to scene with giant thunder bolts. With the group seeing this and Robin saying a thunder cloud shaped like a sphere. The city dwellers try and make it to the ocean, and it cuts to Enel saying the Ark Maxim has truly made him omniscient as the ball falls upon the city. Enel exclaims "Raigo!" as the ball explodes on top of the city with the survivors looking back wondering if the White Berets have survived and realizing their homeland is gone forever.
Enel laughs and says "this is what the sky should look like" then the scene cuts to a terrified Usopp and horrified Gan Fall.  Next it cuts to Conis on the Going Merry saying she wants to take them back to the blue sea. Then it cuts to Luffy and Nami with Luffy saying he has some unfinished business with Nami saying "your life is more important than gold". Luffy then says he won't die asking Nami if she'd seen it, the City of Gold, "it wasn't a lie, the old timer's ancestor." Then it cuts to a flashback with Cricket and Luffy says he has to ring the bell so that the old timer and the monkeys would hear it and stop searching the ocean floor. It cuts to a flashback with the crew and Luffy explaining his intentions. Then to the crew with Zoro saying when Luffy says he's going to do something he'll do it.
Luffy stands exhausted at the cut base of the beanstalk then grabs Enel's ship, and Enel easily kicks him off falling back down. Nami refuses to join him, and Enel exclaims all will perish sending everything back to the way it's supposed to be. This infuriates Luffy, but Enel easily stops him from climbing up again, this doesn't stop Luffy from trying but once again Enel stops him saying "it's beyond anyone from stopping me now". A flashback with Cricket saying we will send you to the sky.
Luffy yells out "I'm going to ring that bell", and this ends the episode.

Enel, being the first one to come across the great Belfry, calls it magnificent even though it is covered in vines and slightly tilted. Meanwhile Luffy, is trying to climb the vine but slips. Nami tries to convince him that he can't make it. Determined, Luffy takes Nami's waver and drives it up the bean stalk. Luffy falls but his will doesn't waver. Down where the others are, they get a message written on a leaf telling them to cut down the beanstalk from the west. The people from Skypiea tremble in fear as they look up at the ark surrounded in clouds. It focuses on Enel where he is talking to himself about destroying the land with Raigou so he can set out for the Fairy Vearth.
Robin, Usopp, Gan Fall, and Zoro look in wonder at the thunderclouds Enel has created that are even bigger than the last one, doubting that they will get off the island in time. Then Nami, staring at the thunderclouds with Luffy, decides she won't leave because Luffy can't steer the waver. Usopp explains their plan as if it's crazy. Lightning strikes where they are and Wyper gets Aisa out of the way just in time. Usopp grabs Sanji with the help of Robin and they run before the next bolt hits them. Zoro then makes the decision that they should get away from the beanstalk in which everyone agrees non-verbally. When they are on the vearth, Zoro runs towards the beanstalk dodging bolts while the others wonder if he will make it. Being Zoro, he makes it and slices one part of the beanstalk down with one sword. Unfortunately, he gets struck down with lightning before he can cut the other part leaving both parts still standing.
Wyper complains about them getting in the way and protests that he, not Luffy, should ring the bell because it is the Great Warrior's will. Usopp decides that with his powers he can knock down the rest of the bean stalk and tells Robin to look after their fallen comrades. Robin then tells Wyper the story of Noland and the reason Luffy wants to ring the bell. Wyper starts to cry and asks for the descendant and the ancestor's name. Nola, the snake tries to help topple it down, but it doesn't work. Then Wyper, pushing Usopp aside starts to climb the beanstalk, then uses his Reject Dial on the beanstalk.
Luffy and Nami use full speed on the falling beanstalk to get to the Ark. Wyper is still alive, Usopp and Aisa cheer Luffy and Nami on. Enel launches lightning at the two on the waver, they dodge it, and he starts to laugh. Shooting random shots of lightning at the ground. The forest catches on fire as Enel shoots random bolts of lightning.

The villagers leave in ships shocked at the destruction of the Upper Yard. Nami continues to drive up the falling beanstalk. Everyone is concerned for Wyper and Zoro.
Enel then laughs at everyone running and sends a lightning bolt towards their location which also causes Nami to swerve on the beanstalk. Conis and the villagers look on in terror but realize after the smoke clears that Upper Yard is still standing. Gan Fall realizes that the Vearth is just that powerful and questions why they were so blind for 400 years. Usopp tries to get everyone out of the way as the beanstalk appears to fall on them. Luffy gets closer, but Enel is unimpressed and uses Raigo. Luffy gets closer and the waver cuts off, but Luffy continues to jump towards Enel. The beanstalk finally falls all the way to the ground and Luffy uses the ball of gold with his Gomu Gomu Hanabi saying that Enel ruined the weather once they got there.
Enel realizes the gold ball on Luffy's arm is a natural conductor and tries to drop the thunder ball before Luffy can discharge it. The White Berets ask their leader to stop as it is pointless, but he says they can't go back or forward and starts to pray. The rest of the villagers are also in a praying stance, with Luffy in the sky continuing his fireworks displays causing "cracks" to appear on the thundercloud. Nami and Enel are shocked as Luffy has succeeded in clearing the sky causing the sun the shine through with the villagers looking on in shock.
Luffy's arm is twisted as Enel uses a 200 million volt amaru turning into a giant electric monster and says he is a God. Enel then sends out a blast saying Luffy's still just a Paramecia type and he can't stop a Logia. Luffy walks on the giant's arm and kicks him in the face. Luffy dodges a trident, but it burns him instead and the golden ball pulls him closer. Luffy gets himself free and uses the golden ball and the twisted arm from earlier to hit Enel, sending him into the golden bell.  

Luffy delivers to Enel his finishing blow with this golden ball arm, causing the Golden Bell to ring and fall and the golden ball to shatter. The ringing is heard by Cricket and the Saruyama Alliance all the way from Jaya, and all the other people in Sky Island. The Straw Hats rejoice upon hearing the beautiful sound of the bell. 
Having confirmed the existence of Sky Island, Cricket surmises that the "giants" they see in the cumuloregalis clouds were just shadows of the Sky People living in Sky Island. He then cries in relief knowing the Straw Hats are safe.
Back in Skypiea, the Golden Bell falls into the sky ocean, followed by Enel and his Ark Maxim. The Skypieans watch as these sink into the sky ocean. The promise to ring the bell has finally been fulfilled after 400 years. Luffy lies down and wonders if the old man and the others heard it, to which Nami replies that she's sure they did. 
Everyone involved in the battle are now being treated or are recuperating. Chopper goes to Wyper to treat his wounds. Zoro, Usopp and Sanji think about how the City of Gold was only a city of gold by name since they were not able to find any treasure within it, that it was too bad that the Golden Bell fell to the sky ocean, and they weren't able to get some gold, thus continuing their journey in poverty. Usopp isn't too torn up about it since he would much rather have the dials than gold since these can't be found in the Blue Sea.
Luffy, Nami, Conis and Su get back to the group carrying a huge sack of food they found in the priests' food storage on their way back through the forest. Conis' father, Pagaya, who she believed to have died protecting her, appears behind them telling her that he is alive. He said that he found himself in the White Sea after being knocked off. He also updated every one of how the evacuees are returning to the White-White Sea via restored Milky Roads and that since Angel Island is no more, everyone is headed to the Upper Yard. 
Gan Fall goes to rescue those who Enel forced to work for him for 6 years to build Maxim and they are reunited with their families. The Shandorians discuss the events, consulting the Shandorian Chief if the 400-year rift could so easily be mended. 
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats have finished off all the food and Nami suggests that they return to their ship so they can sleep comfortably tonight. However, Luffy and Usopp are disappointed by this statement, telling her that this comment disqualifies her from being a pirate, hinting that they still need to get "that" thing that they came for. Enel is seen on Maxim sailing across the sky ocean, going to "where God should be" which is to the Fairy Vearth (the moon). 
Wyper gains consciousness. He sees Gan Fall, Conis and the Shandorian Chief, prompting him to ask if they were captured by Skypieans. The Shandorian Chief tells him that there is no distinction between those who have been injured in battle. Wyper grows restless, remembering that they still need to find and protect the Golden Bell. He then hears the sound of drums and sees a huge fire outside his tent and assumes that they were announcing a battle. The Shandorian Chief calms him down and tells him to wait and see how things are turning out. Gan Fall then encourages him to look outside and see that instead of a battle, a celebration between Skypieans and Shandorians is taking place. Wyper sees this and smiles.

We see the aftermath of the party--people resting being exhausted after partying for four days. Luffy is running around trying not to wake people looking for his Crew. He finds Nami, wakes her up and asks her to wake the others so they can steal the gold and run. They get into a silly argument which ends up waking most of the sleeping Sky People. Afterwards, Luffy proceeds to tell them his plan.
In the morning, a Shandorian reports to the Shandorian Chief that they have found the Golden Bell and that it is hanging on to Giant Jack, but it might not hold. He asks for help from every able-bodied warrior to go to the western shore to pull the bell up from the sky ocean. The Shandorians try to pull up the bell but are initially unsuccessful. Skypieans then arrive to help and manage to pull up the bell. 
Meanwhile Usopp is initiating trade with the Sky People, offering them rubber bands and metal sheets in exchange for dials. His trade went well, and he is excited to use the dials he obtained to enhance Nami's Clima-Tact and his weapon. Zoro is training by cutting stone while waiting for the others. Luffy, Sanji, Chopper and Nami are inside Nola, retrieving the treasure inside its belly. Robin is wandering outside, investigating the Shandia ruins. 
After the Golden Bell is recovered, the Sky People prop it up and discover that one of its columns has broken off. They see the Poneglyph at its base and wonder what the ancient writings say. The Shandorian Chief says that being an ancient text, it is impossible for them to read it. Robin appears and proceeds to read the writings out loud for the Sky People to hear. She tells them that the Poneglyph mentions Poseidon, an ancient weapon named after a god and that it gives its whereabouts. She is disappointed as this was not what she wanted to find. 
As she is walking away, a Shandorian points out ancient writing engraved on the side of the bell which she missed. She reads the writing as "Gol D. Roger" which shocks her. It continues to say "I made it here and I will guide this passage all the way to the farthest ends of the earth. The stormiest seas will not stop me. - Pirate Gol D. Roger." She surmises that the Pirate King came to the Sky Island but is confused as to the meaning of those words. She wonders how he was able to understand and use the ancient language. Gan Fall tells Robin that he met Roger when he came to Sky Island over twenty years ago. 
Robin tells the Shandorian Chief that the duty of the Poneglyph that the Shandorians have been protecting for centuries has been fulfilled since Roger has already taken the text of the Poneglyph here to the island where the "real Poneglyph" may be located. The Shandorian Chief is moved to tears since this means their duty has also already been fulfilled, that they don't have to fight any longer and that the war is finally over. Robin states that she too must carry on fulfilling her duty to take the text on Poneglyphs she has read all the way to Laugh Tale. 
Gan Fall tells Robin that Luffy reminds him of Roger and that he finds him very interesting. Robin agrees and says that she finds him interesting as well. The Shandorian Chief, grateful for the Straw Hats help, wants to give them gold by offering the Belfry's broken column. The Sky People wrap up the column to carry to the Straw Hats. 
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats are growing impatient waiting for Robin. As she approaches the crew, they see the wrapped up broken golden column and mistake it for a huge cannon and make a run for it. The Sky People give chase trying to give them their gift. 

The Straw Hats (minus Nami who is already at the ship) are seen running away from what they thought was a huge cannon. The Sky People are disappointed that they were not able to give them their gift and that they were not able to express their gratitude, although Aisa says that she was able to thank them before they left. 
Meanwhile in Upper Yard, Wyper declares that while their ancient duty as Shandorians has already been fulfilled, the fire of Shandora will never die. The Shandorian Chief asks Gan Fall to reprise his role as their leader. He initially declines this request since he still has to fulfill his duty as Sky Knight, but the Chief argues that their land no longer has any use for that role. He continues to say that what they need, instead, is someone who is kind and just who can govern their land, and that duty is best suited for him. Gan Fall suggests that the Shandorian Chief lead the Sky People since Shandora originally belonged to the Shandorians. The Chief says that that means nothing now, and that Vearth should be shared among all the peoples in Sky Island, and that he is the best person who can lead them. All of the Sky People then cry out for him to be their leader, which he then accepts.
The Straw Hats are sailing across the White-White Sea towards Cloud End, preparing to leave Sky Island. They are escorted by Pagaya, Conis and Su on their waver. They reach Cloud End and start descending the Milky Road which will lead them to the Blue Sea. As they freefall back to the Blue Sea, Conis summons an Octopus Balloon to soften their landing. It grabs onto the Going Merry and stops their freefall. It is then that the Sky People ring the Golden Bell so that their departing heroes know how much they are appreciated and are welcome back anytime. 
Back on Jaya, Cricket tells the Saruyama Alliance that he is calling off the search for the City of Gold since they have confirmed that it has been in the sky the whole time. He thanks them for believing in his dream and that he has decided to leave the island. The Masira and Shoujou ask if he's leaving the alliance, to which he answers them with a question of which dream were they going to pursue next, implying that he wasn't leaving them.
On the Going Merry, Luffy, Sanji, Usopp and Chopper discuss what they were going to do with the treasure they found in Shandora. Nami tells them they can't buy everything they want because they'll end up broke and that they have to ensure to land safely first. Robin calls Nami's attention and asks her where they are headed. Nami realizes that they have been blown off-course by an air current, and that because of the Octopus, they are unable to use the sails to control the ship. 
The descent taking longer than expected, the crew grows bored and Luffy decides to hop on top of the Octopus and jump around its head like a trampoline. Sanji notices that the Octopus is shrinking so he tries to stop Luffy from playing. Unfortunately, the Octopus loses air, and they start to freefall towards the sea. To stop them from falling, Usopp goes to the bottom of their ship and attaches breathe dials to help the ship float. The ship slows down momentarily, however, the Octopus loses all of its air, and the ship comes crashing down and lands onto the sea. Surprisingly, the ship survives the fall. After they land, they hear sirens and see spotlights trained on the Merry. 

To open Marines are heard singing 'I don't know but I've been told' while patrolling on a bridge. One of them says that he has heard a rumor about how other marines think that their base has gotten soft because they haven't seen action. Another vehemently argued that that is not true.
Meanwhile a damaged marine warship was being fixed at a dock where workers were complaining that the ship would take a week to fix while another states that they had 3 days. In the background Mekao is seen drinking, muttering that in the old days people used to treat their ships with respect. He then gasped and dropped his bottle as he saw the Going Merry falling from the sky and shouted for everyone to look.
The ship is shown falling and Marines sounded the alarm saying that they are under attack from the sky. The Marines then get to their stations and then see the Going Merry and associate it with the Straw Hat Pirates.
A lower ranking marine then goes and tells Lt. Commander Drake that pirates have invaded. He asks where Comm. Jonathan is, to which he replies he doesn't know.
Jonathan was then shown fishing Usopps's sniper goggles out of the water as he stared at the Going Merry while the Marines tell the Straw hats that resistance is futile and they can't escape.
In the kitchen, two cooks were talking about the commotion outside and get slapped with a ladle by the head chef Jessica who yelled at them for wasting time that they could be spent on preparing food for the soldiers at the base.
Jonathan was then shown walking into his office where Drake was waiting for him. Drake asked where he had been as Jonathan threw his fishing rod and hat into Drake's arms saying he didn't catch anything. Drake begins to tell him if he is absent all the time it causes problems, but was stopped by Jonathan. A marine comes to report that all the eyewitnesses claim they saw a ghost and that the ship must be a ghost ship. Drake berated the marine to report something of significance and to only come back with something useful.
The Marines started investigating the ship and Jonathan noticed odd things for a 'ghost ship' such as the tea being set out and the books being well kept. Then a marine informs him of treasure that they had found on board. A south bird makes its eerie noise to which Jonathan tells people to calm down as it is just a silly looking bird, to which the bird attacks him and flies away. He told his men to keep up the good work and to continue investigating the 'ghost ship'.
Jonathan, walking with other higher ranked marines, begins to connect the dots about the coffee flavor and color being similar to Jaya coffee, the gold on the ship and the legend of a gold city on Jaya, along with the South Bird saying that its not a ghost ship and that the other men were 'too green' to deal with the situation so he kept up the ghost ship idea. Drake offered to start a searching party which Jonathan immediately shuts down and says to begin searching at first light and warned them to check everyone as they could camouflage themselves to look like marines.
Chopper is shown hiding behind a tree wondering where everyone is. Zoro surfaces in the water and dodges an oncoming ship, while Nami is shown hiding her waver in a field of tall grass. Sanji, hiding in a tree, hopes that Nami and Robin are okay when a patrolling marine shoots at him, claiming he saw a light. As they walk away Sanji got mad saying he can't even smoke in peace to himself. Luffy is seen trying to pick a passage that will lead him to meat wishing he had Chopper with him to smell it for him. Usopp and Robin are shown together as Usopp finds his googles. Robin uses her Devil Fruit to spy on the marines who are talking about the ship being a ghost ship and how the gold must be cursed. 
Jonathan, reclining in his office, is seen thinking about who is on board and what jobs they have. 
Chopper, to get away from Marines, throws trash out a window to distract them. Nami is wondering where they landed and Robin tells Usopp the main priority is to find out how to escape. Luffy is then shown literally shadowing a marine while Sanji thinks about how stupid he is being and how he never takes things seriously.
To end Jonathan is shown wondering why the Straw Hats are at the base and that he will just have to wait and see.

The following morning Going Merry is brought in an officine of the base to be further investigated. Suddenly two marine ships reach the G-8 base and ask to enter to heal wounded people on board. Jonathan allows it.
Nami wanders in the base disguised as a marine. She finds Zoro who is walking with no destination and without doing anything to hide. Nami, then, takes his swords and throws them on a bush difficult to reach, just to make him busy and stopping him. Sanji and Luffy disguise themselves as marine cooks and enter in the kitchen. There they are mistaken for the two new cooks arrived from the headquarters, while the two real cooks have been confused by Nami's instructions. The two men are welcomed coldly by Jessica, the head chef, who wants to check what they can do. Sanji shows his ability, higher that the real cooks', while Luffy only eats what was already prepared. Both of them are accepted as the new cooks.
Meanwhile Zoro reaches his swords, but he falls into the sea. When he comes out, he finds himself surrounded by marines that capture him.

Vice Admiral Jonathan, wonders in his office as to the locations of the rest of the Straw Hats and gives Lieutenant Commander Drake a direct order to interrogate Zoro. In the cells, Zoro was about to take a nap when Drake shows up and demands for Zoro's guards to open the cell. Drake begins asking questions as to how many of the crew there are, how did they infiltrate the stronghold and such. Zoro truthfully replies that they came from heaven via an octopus balloon. Drake does not believe him and warns him not to underestimate the marines.
Meanwhile, Nami is assigned by the boss of the janitors to clean the dojo, and Chopper overhears that Zoro has been captured. Some Marines find him, and they run past the closet that Nami hides in. Chopper reaches a locked door but breaks the lock and manages to hide behind a crate full of deer antlers. Some doctors carry the crate outside with Chopper trapped inside. He is carried to the medical room, which is staffed with a single, inexperienced doctor. Outside, Nami is now dressed in a nurse uniform that she found in the closet. Several nurses run past, and drags Nami to the infirmary, stating that it was an emergency. Chopper realizes that he in in the infirmary, and wonders if the doctor is going to be okay.
Nami is assigned with the task of treating the Marines' wounds. On the other side of the room, Dr. Kobato faints at the sight of blood. Chopper decides to take the doctor's place and directs the treatment, wearing disguises. He meets up with Nami and asks what she is doing. Kobato wakes up then collapses again at the thought of operations. She revealed that she cannot bear the sight of suffering or wounded people, but Chopper encourages her to save the wounded. She stands up and makes her way to the operating room. Nami tries to persuade Chopper to escape while they can, but he says that his number one priority is to save people. The three of them proceeds to operate on the patients.
Meanwhile, Drake is notified that an unidentified doctor is performing surgeries. He suspects that it is one of the Straw Hat pirates, and Zoro thinks that it is Chopper. Drake proceeds to the operating room and demands to ask Dr. Kobato a few questions. She in turn demands that he leaves after saying that the only people in the room were ones who dedicated their lives to saving people. He complies but orders the guards to watch the room. They finish the operations, and Chopper shrinks down to his usual size. However, Dr. Kobato is oblivious to this.
In the kitchen, Sanji is wondering how to escape. He states that the reason they were stuck there was because of Luffy not doing anything. Jessica arrives and asks if he is finished with the onions yet and wants them to cut to the next three hundred onions. Sanji immediately complies, and Luffy realizes that Sanji was the reason they were stuck.

Robin and Usopp discover that the Going Merry has been moved. Robin suggests to keep calm and to think about an escape plan, but Usopp prefers to start to look for his beloved ship. Robin approaches the Stan Maley and notices an officer that is walking alone saying that he's a general inspector. She attacks him and defeats him, then she takes his clothes and disguises to be able to walk around the base.
Luffy, as a waiter, gives vice admiral Jonathan his lunch, but he's immediately discovered. Sanji tries to save him but they're surrounded by cooks. Luckily a hundred marines enter in the kitchen in that moment and the two pirates can run away in the crowd without being arrested.
Usopp disguises as a chore boy, arrives where the Merry is hold and meets shipwright Mekao, but he's suddenly arrested and brought in front of Jonathan. The commander starts to think that he may be the new inspector from the headquarters and Usopp confirms his beliefs. His lies however last for a little time because Robin enters in the room and pretends to be the real inspector. Usopp is then put in the same cage of Zoro.
Robin takes a map of the base and discovers that it exists only an access for the ships. Luffy and Sanji, instead, try to reach the jail to free their friends.

At the Going Merry, Shipwright Mekao inspects the ship with interest, whilst other Marines laugh at the pirates stupidity in coming back to their ship, saying there are better ones in the bay they could steal. Meanwhile, Luffy and Sanji sneak around the base, attempting to find the jail where Zoro and Usopp are being held. However, neither of them know where the jail is, thus they assume it is in the suspicious looking island surrounded by water. Major Sheppard is captured by the marines and held in the same cell as the Straw Hat Crew, as Robin stole his uniform previously and the Marine mistook him for an intruder. Usopp takes the chance to pretend he is their comrade, assuring the marines won't let him out.
Robin is in the library searching for a way out of the base, noticing that the Marines are watching her closely. Vice Admiral Jonathan decides that they will have to lead the Straw Hats to the prison in order to capture them. Later, Shipwright Mekao talks to Usopp in the prison, telling him the repairs he did to the Going Merry weren't good enough, and that sooner or later the mast would snap. They talk about the Straw Hat's time in Skypiea, much to Lieutenant Commander Drake's annoyance. However, the Marines force Mekao out after he tells Usopp he might know who mysteriously fixed the Going Merry in Skypiea. 
Meanwhile, Luffy and Sanji attempt to infiltrate the prison, concerned about how deserted the path was. They race down, despite the obvious trap. Luffy discovers the bars are made out of Seastone, whist Sanji attempts to kick down the bars, also discovering that they are practically unbreakable. However, Sanji takes Usopp's impact dial, only to find out it's the voice dial instead. He tries Usopp's other pocket, only for it to be the flavor dial. The gas sets off an explosion, and the Straw Hat's escape only to get lost while following Zoro.

After Sanji and Luffy free Usopp and Zoro from the prison cell, Shepherd, who the Marines know as Condoriano, is left behind. Shepherd tries to convince them that he is not Condoriano, but instead an inspector from Marine Headquarters. The guards, however, refuse to believe him and take him away.
Meanwhile, Luffy's group is running around the base, being chased by Marines. In trying to escape, they end up in what seems like a dead-end at the side of the mountain and meet Vice Admiral Jonathan, who happened to be at the balcony of his office. Luffy tells Jonathan that he has freed his crewmates and declares that they were going to escape the base. This makes Jonathan laugh, asking him if he really thinks he can escape Navarone Island with their treasure, to which Luffy replies that they are pirates and that the Marines can't catch them. Suddenly a huge cannon is fires at Luffy's group, and they run back inside the base. 
Instead of going in hot pursuit of the Straw Hats, Jonathan decides to set a trap for them in Dock 88, where the Going Merry is moored, as he knows this is where they will surely go. He tasks Lieutenant Commander Drake to set up the ambush in Dock 88 and since it will take Drake some time to arrive at said dock, he orders Unit 55 to slow the Straw Hats down to stall for time. He stations them at the bridge which is the only way to get to the ship.
Meanwhile, in the base clinic, an alarm can be heard. Nami and Chopper overhear a guard informing Dr. Kobato that they were in Code Red due to a jailbreak. Nami is worried since she and Chopper were still separated from the Crew. They deduce that Luffy must have rescued Zoro and Usopp and that they are probably on their way to the Merry. They decide that they have to get out of the clinic to meet up with the rest of the Crew. 
Before Nami and Chopper can leave, the guard tells Dr. Kobato that one of the pirates have disguised themselves as a doctor. She panics and locks the door to her clinic. She does not realize that the pirates being pertained to are Nami and Chopper and is worried for their safety. However, the two inform her that they are the pirates and that they need her to tell them the location of the dock where their ship is. Dr. Kobato, terrified, screams and then faints which causes the guards to break down the door and rush inside. Improvising, Nami pretends to have also been attacked and lies down next to the doctor, all tied up, while Chopper hides. Nami tells the guards that "the pirates" have escaped through the air ducts.
When Dr. Kobato regains consciousness, she tries to scream, but Nami calms her down. Chopper and Nami are about to leave, when Dr. Kobato tells them that even though they are pirates, they were the ones who helped her see what it truly means to be a doctor and that she wants to help them find their ship. Chopper is worried that they might get her in trouble for helping pirates, so she tells them that if they get caught, she will just pretend to be a hostage. Since her father works at the docks, Dr. Kobato is able to determine where their ship might be. 
Meanwhile, Luffy's group arrives at the bridge leading to Dock 88. Seeing that the bridge is unguarded, they gather that it must be a trap. They decide that they don't care and go ahead and cross it. Unit 55 block their path and have them surrounded from all sides. Luffy's group easily defeats them but, in the process, Luffy destroys the bridge, and they all fall into the bay. Even with the damage caused, Jonathan in pleased with the result since it bought them the time they needed to set up the ambush in Dock 88. Luffy's group heads to the dock, straight into the trap, seemingly cornered. Luffy is shot with a Seastone net and is incapacitated. Just then, Nami and Dr. Kobato also arrive pushing a hospital bed, with Chopper hidden in the sheets pretending to be a patient. 

The episode starts with the events prior to the arrival of Nami's group into Dock 88. Drake's men bombard Luffy's group with gun fire but he easily repels the bullets using his Devil Fruit powers. The Marines resort to using what seem like bazookas seeing that their guns are ineffective. They have fired instead, flash bombs to subdue the pirates which stings their eyes. Drake then has his Sword Unit attack the Straw Hats as they are still trying to recover from the effects of the flash bomb. The Crew are able to fight off the attacks. Luffy is then shot with a Seastone net and is instantly incapacitated. Drake demands that they surrender and tells them that while their Marine base policy is to take prisoners alive, he will not hesitate to change this policy if he is met with any resistance. With Luffy in a weakened state, Sanji, Zoro and Usopp seem to be unable to resist the overwhelming number of the Marines in the dock and consider surrendering. 
Just as the Marines are about to capture them, Nami and Dr. Kobato, with Chopper still hidden under the sheets of the hospital bed, arrive at the dock. The Marines notice that Dr. Kobato is with the pirates and hesitate to attack, asking those who just arrived to identify themselves. Dr. Kobato then pretends to be a hostage and screams in feigned terror. She hints at Nami of her plan and in turn, Nami also pretends to be a nurse held hostage by Chopper, now in his Heavy Point form. Chopper acts like a tough and ruthless pirate and demands that the Marines stand down and let them board their ship. 
Drake gives in and orders his men to stand down in return for the release of the "hostages." Zoro releases Luffy from the Seastone net but Luffy remains weak. Mekao, Dr. Kobato's father, watches as this is going on. He says that while he isn't too worried about his daughter being with the pirates since he can tell if she really is upset, he is still worried that the Marines may inadvertently hurt her.
Drake "accommodates" the Straw Hats and lets them board their ship, but Zoro senses another trap. He silently tells Luffy to sling them to their ship on his signal. A Marine covertly rescues Dr. Kobato and another also tries to rescue Nami, but she punches the Marine. This was their signal to rush towards the ship. Luffy slings the Crew onto the Merry. Mekao, with the safety of his daughter in mind, aides the pirates in their escape by releasing the Going Merry from the dock into the bay. Thinking that the Straw Hats are holding the "nurse" Nami as hostage, Drake orders them not to shoot at them, but instead to just give them warning shots. As the ship sails away, the Marines scope out the ship and notice Nami giving the crew orders and is in being held hostage. They realize that she is actually part of the Straw Hats. 
Inside the base, Robin is leaving the library, as she is finished researching about the base, when she is stopped by marines. She subdues them and then makes her escape to the ship. She swings from the base onto the Merry and the Crew is finally reunited. She gives Nami a map of Navarone Island which she obtained in the library.
The Marines start shooting cannons at the Merry and start giving chase using warships. Nami refers to the map and sees the only way out of the base is the Sea Gate, to which they head. She notices that the water is too shallow and that the map doesn't make sense. They head to the Sea Gate anyway and try to think of a plan to open the gate. The Marines continue their barrage on the Merry while the Straw Hats don't have a way to retaliate since the Marines have confiscated all their cannon balls. Luffy devises a plan and catches all the cannon balls shot at them with his Gomu Gomu no Fusen ability and redirects them towards the gate. Just as the gate explodes, Nami realizes that if the Marines took all their cannon balls, they must have also taken the treasure they found on Skypiea.

Nami and Sanji finally find the Waver in a patch of grass. Meanwhile, Shepherd finds Luffy, Robin, Usopp and Zoro at the vault. He shows that he has an extremely large bazooka. However, he is easily defeated by Robin, who uses her Devil Fruit power to point the bazooka at the ground and fire it, launching it into the air. The Straw Hats escape the vault.
Meanwhile, Nami drops off Sanji at the ship before pursuing the Straw Hats herself. She overhears Marines discussing how the Straw Hats have fled towards the mountains.
The Straw Hats ask Kobato and Mekao where the gold is stored. Mekao points them to a cliff face and says that the treasure was likely at the top. However, Mekao also warns that Jonathan would very likely use the gold to bait the Straw Hats into a trap. 
At the top of the cliff, Nami joins the others by riding the Waver up the cliff. They deduce that the only way for Jonathan to be able to trap them is if he placed the gold near his office. So, Luffy and Nami head towards Jonathan's office, while the others go to the edge of the water for Sanji to pick them up.
Luffy and Nami manage to find the window of Jonathan's office and break in. Jonathan, who was waiting in there the whole time, is surprised. The gold is in his office. Luffy takes the gold, but reinforcements arrive, and he is captured in the seastone net. However, because the Marines were using guns, Nami defeats all the Marines by using the Clima-Tact to create lightning. They take the gold and escape. 
Nami and Luffy are picked up by the Going Merry, which has been disguised as a Marine ship. Meanwhile, Shepherd mocks Jonathan for letting the Straw Hats escape. He then orders the Marines to intercept the Straw Hats at the gate. The Marines then notice that one of the Marine ships was really the Going Merry. The Straw Hats "thank" the Marines for showing them where the gate was. Meanwhile, Jonathan tells Shepherd that the Straw Hat pirates fell into his "ultimate trap."

Lieutenant Commander Jonathan puts into action his "9 o'clock" trap; during 9 o'clock, the base can use periods of low tide to prevent the ships from escaping. So, when Luffy commands the ship to go full speed ahead, a hole was torn in the hull by the rocks on the harbor floor. 
The harbor eventually reaches a very low tide, rendering the ship unable to move. Jonathan gloats via megaphone how he had captured the Straw Hat Pirates.
So, the Straw Hat Pirates launch their plan; they use Usopp's Impact Dial to launch the ship into the air, then uses an Octopus Balloon inflated with Breath and Flame Dials to float in the air. Jonathan orders his men to fire a "warning shot" at the balloon. However, Shepherd also aims for the balloon with his bazooka, only to instead miss and shoot down the Marines' cannon.
Jonathan accepts that the Straw Hat Pirates have won, and that they have successfully escaped G-8. He commands Drake to ceasefire. Shepherd, who is angry that the Straw Hats escaped, threatens to have G-8 decommissioned, but is punched by Jessica. Jonathan explains that the pirate encounter was a bonding experience for the Marines, so he is not upset that the pirates escaped.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats are seen flying towards the sunset. Usopp works on fixing the hole.

After escaping from G-8 the Straw Hat Pirates land in the sea softly and continue their voyage. In Mock Town, Donquixote Doflamingo perches from a column and uses his powers on Bellamy and Sarquiss as punishment for being defeated by Luffy prior to his journey to Skypiea. Bellamy begs Doflamingo to give him another chance, but Doflamingo concludes that Bellamy and his crew are obsolete to him and uses his puppetry to force Sarquiss to slash Bellamy, although he survives. In the seas the Straw Hats notice a ship lacking its sails without its captain or navigator. The ship then sails into a giant wave which destroys the ship. The crew then come across Long Ring Long Land, however it is too plain for their (particularly Sanji's) tastes. Luffy, Usopp and Chopper immediately de-board and start to act childish as usual and explore the island. The trio see long animals and come across two tall bamboos whose top couldn't be seen. Suddenly the bamboos start moving and one hits Luffy. Luffy gets excited and breaks the bamboo. Then falls an old man named Tonjit who has a horse named Shelly. Tonjit says that he made the world's tallest stilts and after going up, he couldn't come down for 10 years due to fear. Tonjit explains that due to expanse grassland, everyone here is relaxed making them long. After roaming around Long Ring Long Land the damaged Going Merry is seized by another ship as its captain confronts the crew and challenges them to a Davy Back Fight.

The Straw Hat Pirates overcame the various forms of sabotage at the hands of the Foxy Pirates. The Straw Hat Pirates now must traverse a coral reef. They find that the reef is filled with currents. While the Cutie Wagon was pushed back, the Straw Hats' boats manage to overcome the currents.
However, Foxy fires a smokescreen arrow that renders the Straw Hats unable to see. They manage to overcome this sabotage too, but they approach the Long RIng, a giant whirlpool. They use the Impact Dial to fly over the whirlpool. However, the Well Whatever landed on the Long Cape and broke, disqualifying it from the game.
Only the Barrel Tiger and Cutie Wagon remain. The Cutie Wagon finally overcomes the coral reef by using Capote's Two-Fish Engine technique. Meanwhile, the Barrel Tiger clears the Long Breaking Waves obstacle and Foxy's Fake Sign. So, Foxy disguises himself as an elderly woman and asks the Barrel Tiger to stop and help her. Nami refuses and continues on. 
Nami then passes through Foxy's fake finish line, but Porsche falls for the trick and stops. Nami finally finds the real finish line and approaches it, but Foxy uses his Noro Noro no Mi powers to slow down the Barrel Tiger, allowing the Cutie Wagon to win.
Foxy explains that his powers allow him to emit particles that can slow down an object. He then selects Tony Tony Chopper as his new crewmate as the prize. Chopper tearfully accepts joining the Foxy Pirates. 
Because Chopper was intended to participate in the second event, and that the Straw Hats cannot change their order, they will only have two participants for the second event: Zoro and Sanji. Foxy explains the second event, the "Groggy Ring," where one player on each team would be the ball that would have to go through the other team's ring. 
Foxy introduces his teammates, the Groggy Monsters: Hamburg, Pickles and Big Pan. Heavily disadvantaged, Zoro and Sanji prepare to start the event.

For the Straw Hat's next event, they must win a game of Groggy Ring to get Chopper back. Sanji and Zoro must work together to defeat the Groggy Monsters. The referee introduces the two teams, Sanji and Zoro as the two guys who sabotaged the Foxy Pirate's teams in the first event, and introduced the Groggy Monsters as their most powerful Groggy Ring squad.
The Groggy Monsters are three giants named Hamburg, Pickles, and Big Pan. After introducing Zoro as the 60,000,000 belly man, Pickles says he was wondering what kind of opponents warranted them coming out and playing. The Groggy Monsters appear to think Sanji and Zoro are no match for them.
The referee comes out and says the field positions are decided by a coin toss. He then quickly flips the coin, and Hamburg immediately says tails. The referee then asks Zoro and Sanji which side they chose. Sanji replies saying there is only one side left to choose, so heads. After they respond the referee shows the coin he flipped, revealing tails. He then smirks and gives an evil laugh. He turns to the Groggy Monsters and ask them if they want field or ball. Hamburg, the leader responds Ball. The announcer then says in an excited voice over the PA that the Groggy Monsters have chosen to receive the ball. He then says that  Sanji from the Straw Hat team must go to his opponents' mid-circle.
Zoro and Sanji then start arguing over where to stand, and who is the ball. They play rock paper scissors to decide who is the Ballman. Zoro wins, but Sanji argues against it, saying that Zoro threw the last paper late. Nami gets frustrated and tells Sanji that the ball looks good on him. As they walk to the starting line the referee tells Roronoa Zoro that there is a no weapons policy and to take off his katanas.
The Groggy Monsters decide to rush Zoro and Sanji and crush them. The announcer then tells the teams that there is no time limit and the first point wins. Pickles rushes forward to attack Sanji, but he easily jumps over him. Sanji then tries to attack the opposing team's Ballman, Big Pan. He slips on Big Pan's arms because he his part loach and their skin is slippery. Big Pan hits Sanji sending him flying to Hamburg in order to score a goal. Roronoa Zoro tries to catch Sanji from going into the goal but Pickles knocks him out of the way. Then Hamburg catches Sanji and throws him to the goal. Pickles catches Sanji and throws him to the goal. Before Sanji reaches the goal Zoro throws Pickles toward Sanji and Sanji kicks Hamburg preventing him from entering the goal and loosing the game.
Sanji and Roronoa Zoro continuously argue and fight. They both say they do not need any help to win by themselves. Big Pan uses the disarray to try and crush Sanji and Roronoa Zoro by crushing them. Big Pan is breaking the rules by using weapons on his feet. Sanji gets mad and kicks the ref, because the referee is not doing anything about Big Pan using weapons. This causes him to get a yellow card.
All three of the Groggy Monsters return with lots of weapons. Roronoa Zoro and Sanji get beaten up by all of them. They are beaten to an inch of their life because they will not work together. After several minutes of harsh beatings, Roronoa Zoro and Sanji are shown to be barley conscious. The episode ends with Roronoa Zoro telling Sanji that they should work together for 10 seconds to win.

The episode begins with Itomimizu narrating that Sanji and Zoro have been defeated, but is interrupted when the two Straw Hats suddenly stand up. The remaining Straw Hat members cheer for them as Itomimizu goes on to doubt if Zoro and Sanji have any strength left. Foxy then orders a "Monster Burger" from the Groggy Monsters, which causes the Foxy Pirates to go into a shock. The Straw Hats in the audience wonder what it could mean. The Foxy Pirates then start to cheer as Hamburg, Pickles and Big Pan pull out weapons, claiming to grind, slice and crush Zoro and Sanji into a "monster burger". Itomimizu says that this is clearly against the rules, but the referee is stretching and not watching the field. Luffy is seen getting enraged at the referee, but he is being held back by Nami and Usopp. 
The Groggy Monsters start their attack with Hamburg aiming straight at Sanji, but he defeats Hamburg easily and sends him flying right in between the pans that Big Pan was crushing together. Pickles, angered at Hamburg's defeat, charges at Sanji, but is stopped by Zoro. Pickles tries to attack Zoro with his swords, but Zoro sends him flying with Mutouryuu: Tatsumaki. Pickles flies spinning at Big Pan and accidentally slices him in the chest. As Big Pan starts to fall over, Sanji runs behind him and makes him stand back up with Anti-Manner Kick Course. Zoro then starts running towards Big Pan with Pickles standing in between them, but Sanji quickly kicks him out of the way and straight into the referee. The referee tries to issue a red card, but he notices that both his cards and whistle are gone before passing out. It is then revealed that Nami stole them from him. Back in the field, Zoro is seen running at Sanji, and at first, Itomimizu thinks they are fighting again, but Zoro merely jumps on Sanji's leg, who sends him flying at Big Pan with Armee de l'Air Power Shoot. Zoro grabs Big Pan by his mouth and proceeds to land his head into the goal, much to the shock of the Foxy Pirates.
The watching Straw Hats start to cheer, as do some of the Foxy Pirates, before Foxy scolds them for praising the enemy. The referee then wakes up as Nami persuades him to blow the whistle, and he does, not knowing of the situation, and Itomimizu announces that the game is over and the Straw Hats are the winners as the Straw Hats cheer for Zoro and Sanji. 
Itomimizu explains that now that the Straw Hats have won, they can either choose a member of the Foxy Pirates or take their flag. Luffy says that he's already decided, and several Foxy Pirates immediately start to think that Luffy is going to pick them as Chopper silently pleads Luffy to hurry. Just as Luffy is about to say who he chooses, Nami interrupts him. She tells Luffy that Foxy is probably going to meddle in the next game and suggests that Luffy choose Foxy in their team. She proceeds to say that even if they'd choose Chopper now, they could still lose him in the next game if the Foxy Pirates win, and taking Foxy out now would be the best way to ensure Chopper's return to the crew. The Foxy Pirates are shocked at this and call it the "peanut strategy", claiming that the Straw Hats are unfair if they do this. After Zoro agrees with them and says that Nami is in the wrong, she snaps at the Foxy Pirates and warns them not to get cocky. Zoro is seen on the ground with a huge lump on his head, suggesting that Nami punched him as well. 
Itomimizu then says that Luffy is still free to choose anyone he wants from the Foxy Pirates. The pirates who thought they were going to be picked still think so, but this time Foxy is also thinking that Luffy might pick him. Then Robin points out that if they choose Foxy now, he would become their crew member, and the rest of the Straw Hats immediately say they don't want him, which shocks Foxy. He becomes depressed and his crew gathers around to comfort and encourage him. He cheers up at first, but when Sanji tells him to cut it, he becomes depressed again.
Itomimizu then steers the conversation back to where it was: who will Luffy choose? Chopper holds back his tears as Luffy says that he's going to take something back. Chopper cheers up, thinking Luffy is going to choose him, but then Luffy shouts out Shelly's name. Nami and Usopp start complaining and pulling at Luffy's face. Tonjit and Shelly appear in front of the Straw Hats and Luffy tells Tonjit he got Shelly back from the Foxy Pirates for him. Tonjit expresses concern over Zoro and Sanji's beat up appearances, thanks Luffy for what he did and then asks if Chopper is okay with this. Chopper seems crushed, but Luffy tells him to wait and promises that he will definitely win the next round and get him back. Luffy asks Chopper if he has a problem with it, to which Chopper says he doesn't. The episode ends with each of the Straw Hats looking forward to the next game. 

Luffy wins the final round of the roller coaster race against Foxy and his crew in the three-coin Davy Back Fight. He then brings Chopper back to the Straw Hat crew. Foxy, declaring that there should be no draws in the Pirate world, asks for a three-coin rematch. Luffy accepts, and Robin and Sanji question his motives for doing so, wondering if he's trying to find a shipwright. Nami and Usopp are angered with Luffy but also terrified, convinced that the Foxy Pirates will take them, until some Foxy crewmates tell them otherwise.
Hit & Dead ball, the first event in the three-coin match, is essentially a game of dodgeball. The goal is to out all of the opposing team's players. Whichever team loses all of their members first loses the entire first round. The game has a long history and thus also has many rules. Nami assumes the rules are made to give Foxy's team an advantage, but realizes everyone must play fair thanks to strict consequences and a change of referees. The Foxy Pirates greatly outnumber the Straw Hats, making it seem as if the Straw hats are at a disadvantage. Two players from Foxy's team as well as Luffy and Chopper step up, preparing for a double jump start. The two opposers attack, but Luffy and Chopper evade them, grab the balls, and aim for Foxy, who is hit in the face. The referee calls it a safe since according to the rule book, face hits don't count. The balls are then passed to Zoro and Sanji, who knock out a total of 18 players. The balls are passed back to Luffy, who disqualifies 10 players, and Chopper, whose ball is stopped by Hamburg.
Big Pan of the Foxy Pirates has both balls, but ends up disqualifying Usopp and 22 players from his own team. There are few remaining on Foxy's team, and it doesn't seem as if the Straw Hats have much of a disadvantage anymore. Hamburg and Foxy decide to use a secret weapon to win, but then Robin outs Hamburg. A referee tries to declare it a safe, before being corrected and reprimanded. A ball is passed to Sanji, but some women trick him into giving them the ball and letting them get him out. Foxy brings out the secret weapon, "Dead Hit" cannon. Robin notes that according to the rule book, Dead Hit is the only weapon allowed.
Porche and Foxy try to trick Zoro, who in turn cuts the ball with his bare hands to avoid getting hit. He is then disqualified, as cutting the ball is against the rules. The only players left on the field are Luffy, Chopper, and Foxy. Luffy dodges Foxy's next ball, but Chopper notices that it bounces back and shields him. He is assumed to be out until he reveals that it was a face hit, and earns the support of the audience. Although the referee agrees, Chopper went out of bounds and is therefore disqualified. Luffy goes to thank Chopper, and then proceeds with the game. He stretches out to throw his ball at Dead Hit, but while doing so, the ball is taking by Porche. She and the rest of the spectators shuffle the real ball with fake ones, making it impossible to tell which is which. Luffy attempts to catch all the balls thrown at him in case one is real, but Foxy launches his own ball as well. Nami tells Luffy to let it hit his face as his arms are full, but ends up catching it with his mouth and swallowing it. The referee declares that Luffy is now also disqualified. According to the rulebook, swallowing balls is not allowed. The Straw Hats are outraged, but the rule is real. The Foxy Pirates won the first round of the Davy Back Fight.

Foxy reclaims Chopper as his prize for the second round of the Davy Back Fight. Nami negotiates with Foxy to allow Luffy to reclaim both Chopper and Robin should he win the final round. Foxy raises the number of crewmates claimed by the winner to 500. The location of the fight is set to Foxy's ship, the Sexy Foxy.
Luffy enters Foxy's closet to select an outfit for the fight. Luffy decides to enter the Sexy Foxy in an afro.
The duel begins. Foxy easily incapacitates Luffy using his Noro Noro Beam, then attacks him using a barrage of punches. When the effects of the Noro Noro Beam wears off, Luffy experiences the impact of all the punches at once.
When Luffy gets up, he finds Foxy on one of the many slowed, floating cannonballs. Luffy tries to step on them, but the cannonballs revert to their normal speed, and fire. 
Then, Foxy fires a series of bombs shaped like his face. He then punches Luffy using spiked gloves. Soon, the face bombs explode, worrying the Straw Hats.

Luffy survives Foxy's Face Bombs, to the shock of the commentator. So, Foxy sets up fake wooden replicas of him. Given the smoke, Luffy finds it difficult to distinguish the real Foxy from the rest. So, Luffy insults Foxy, making him bow down. Luffy can then attack him.
Foxy uses a trapdoor that takes Luffy out of bounds into the ocean. However, Luffy manages to grab onto the ship and narrowly avoid falling into the ocean. Foxy then locks Luffy into a room, then rigs the outside floor with spikes; Luffy would break out the door but fall into the lethal spikes. However, Luffy instead uses a cannon to break down the door.
Foxy locks himself in the nurse's office. He then disguises himself as a nurse. He manages to punch Luffy before fleeing further. His second disguise as a chef also allows him to attack Luffy with another Kyubi Rush. This move makes Luffy fly into another room.
This room has a machine called the Gorilla Puncher 13, a wall covered in burning boxing gloves. Furthermore, this area has a mirror that allows Foxy's Noro Noro Beam to reflect. So, Luffy breaks the mirror, then jumps up and punches Foxy. Foxy, in retaliation successfully attacks Luffy using the Gorilla Puncher.
Foxy goes to the deck to celebrate his victory. However, Luffy manages to get up. Foxy hits Luffy with two more Kyubi Rushes, but Luffy gets up and says that he will protect his nakama even if it means death.

Foxy hits Luffy with a Noro Noro Beam and slows a cannonball. Luffy gets away from the cannonball as soon as the effects wore off. However, he is hit with Foxy's Fighter Jet.
After Luffy gets up yet again, Foxy casts another Noro Noro Beam, but Luffy, who is holding a mirror shard, reflects the beam back onto Foxy. Luffy attacks Foxy using his Gum Gum Flail move and waited for the effects to wear off. The crowd counts down until the effects wear off, causing Luffy's move to send Foxy flying into the air.
Foxy lands out of bounds, meaning that Luffy won the final round. The crowd jumps in the water to rescue Foxy.
After both Luffy and Foxy come to, Foxy attempts to grab Luffy's arm and perform a shoulder throw, but Luffy's arm stretches, causign Foxy to fall. 
Luffy reclaims Chopper and Robin. He then strips the Foxy Pirates of their Jolly Roger, replacing it with a badly-drawn one for their sail. For the remaining 497 people to be claimed, he picks all the Foxy Pirates except for Hamburg, Porche and Foxy. However, Luffy immediately dismisses his newly-gained members, causing them to rejoin the Foxy Pirates.
The Straw Hat Pirates return to Tonjit. Suddenly, a giant mooole appears, being ridden by a boy. Tonjit recognizes the boy as his grandson. They tearfully hug after being reunited. Robin suggests that the boy dig a hole to reach the village so that TOnjit can be reunited with the villagers.
The Straw Hat Pirates finally set sail and leave Long Ring Long Land to continue searching for a shipwright for the crew.

Robin is reading late at night while the others are sleeping. Suddenly, a mysterious figure appears in the ocean and plays an instrument resembling a seahorse. 
Nami wakes up in the morning, but cannot recognize Robin. Chopper, Usopp, Sanji, and Luffy also wake up soon after, all of which are confused as to why they woke up on the ship; their memories were erased. Usopp lies and says that he was a famous pirate, but his lie is seen through.
The Straw Hats all meet at the deck and notice Chopper, wondering who he is. Robin explains that they were on the Grand Line, and that they were on a pirate ship led by Luffy. Nami then goes to her room and finds her logbook, finding that the notes were written in her handwriting.
Nami decides that she must return to Cocoyasi Village. She escapes the ship using a Waver. Zoro also decides to leave, and jumps in the water and swims. Meanwhile, the mysterious figure watches from a hill.

Robin informs the Straw Hats about the memories erased from them. Meanwhile, Nami, who left the ship, arrives on a nearby island. A newspaper is dropped from a seagull, and all the residents in the village fight each other over the newspaper. Nami then meets the boy who erased the Straw Hats' memories. He tells her to ride around the island.
Robin then explains what happened the night they lost their memories. They deduce that only those who fell asleep lost their memories, and that the child stole their memories by playing the low-pitched horn. Luffy figures that although their old memories had been lost, they would just make new memories through their adventures.
A flashback is shown of Zoro, telling Kuina that either one of them will become the world's strongest swordsman. Kuina's father tells Zoro that Kuina's dream has been passed to him, giving him the Wado Ichimonji. Back in present day, the boy approaches Zoro, but is noticed.
Meanwhile, Nami, who is bathing, wonders how the Straw Hats ended up as her nakama. She also wonders what happened to her Arlong Pirates tattoo, having forgotten the events of the Arlong Park Arc. A flashback is shown of Nami joining the Arlong Pirates.
Back to present day, the boy stands on the ship's figurehead and blows the horn. Robin confronts him, waking up all the Straw Hats in the process. Angry, the boy attempts to blow into his horn a sleeping spell, but is confronted by Luffy for sitting on the figurehead. The horn emits a blue, sparkling dust that flows into Luffy's mouth. The boy escapes, but when Luffy wakes up, he regains his memory.

Nami, who is in the town's inn, questions what Robin said. She realizes that she has to return to Cocoyasi Village, but is unsure how to go from the Grand Line back to East Blue.
Back on the ship, Luffy, having regained his memory, explains that he is the captain. Luffy sets out to find Zoro and Nami. Robin suggests waiting until morning, to which Luffy agrees.
In the forest, the boy tries to approach Zoro again. However, the boy decides not to and leaves.
Three flashbacks are shown: one of Sanji talking to Zeff on the deserted island, one of Usopp telling tall tales to Kaya, and one of Chopper being taken in and raised by Dr. Hiriluk. 
In the morning, the Straw Hat Pirates set out to find Zoro and Nami. To reach the island, they each build a canoe, but Usopp's canoe is used. Meanwhile, Nami checks out of her inn, only to find that the innkeeper's memories have been erased. Usopp also has trouble talking with the villagers due to all their memories being erased. Luffy finds Nami and catches her. 
The Straw Hats explain to Nami that the boy stole their memories. They deduce that they need to find the boy to reclaim their memories and get Zoro back. Meanwhile, the boy finally approaches Zoro in the forest. The boy casts a spell on Zoro.
The Straw Hats then go to a deserted area, where Robin reads from a stone. She says that the real thief was not the boy, and tells the Straw Hats to head to the Palace of the Sea God.

The Straw Hats travel through the forest to find the Palace of the Sea God. Usopp and Chopper are chased by a snake. After losing the snake, they become separated from the others. They also run into Zoro, who awkwardly ignores them. However, when Zoro finally sees Luffy, he attacks Luffy using his swords. The Straw Hats believe that Zoro was hypnotized.
Luffy tells the others to go ahead to the temple, while he stayed behind to battle Zoro. Zoro defeats Luffy with an Oni Giri move. Meanwhile, on the way to the Palace, Nami tells the Straw Hats that Luffy and Robin are lying to them, and that they should go home. However, the Straw Hats decide to stay with Robin, and they leave Nami behind. Nami, however, decides to follow the Straw Hats to reclaim her gold. Back in the forest, Zoro and Luffy continue to engage in the fight.
Upon arriving at the Palace, Robin explains that there is a legendary monster that would feed on others' memories to survive, and that the monster resided in the island. Nami and Usopp try to reach the Straw Hats, but are approached by the cloaked boy. Sanji leaps into the air and kicks the boy, causing the seahorse horn to release the Straw Hats' memories and also play a sound. Because the boy was briefly unconscious from the kick, he lost his memories. The boy, confused as to where he was, flees.
Robin explains that the real thief was the seahorse horn. It tries to flee, but is caught by Sanji. Sanji beats the seahorse until it coughed up the Straw Hats' memories. Having regained their memories, they wonder if Zoro has regained his memories. Zoro approaches them, and Sanji is prepared to fight him. The seahorse communicates via Chopper that it still had its last resort.

The villagers celebrate because they regained their memories. The cloaked boy, who fled from the battle, reunites with his mother. He tells the villagers that the memory thief was in the forest. In the forest, Zoro approaches the Straw Hats, prepared to fight them. Sanji battles Zoro, but Luffy launches himself forward, hitting Zoro and Sanji.
When they wake up, Zoro reveals that he regained his memory when the seahorse coughed up his memory. Sanji was mad that Zoro still looked scary after regaining his memory. Zoro then jumps into the lake to chase the seahorse. After Zoro catches it, the seahorse uses his last resort: he sprays a gas into the air that makes the Straw Hats hallucinate people from their past memories (Bell-mere, Hiriluk, Kaya, Kuina, Zeff, Ace, and Shanks), then their past enemies (Arlong, Wapol, Kuro, Krieg, Crocodile, and Enel). The seahorse then steals the Straw Hats' memories, causing it to inflate and be able to float; it becomes a Sennenryu.
Luffy launches himself into the air and wraps around the seahorse. The seahorse, in pain, releases Luffy's memories. Luffy, who regained his memories for the second time, defeats the seahorse, causing him to release all his remaining memories and fly into the air.
The Straw Hats then ask for a reward from the villagers for defeating the seahorse and giving them their memories back. However, the villagers, mistaking them to be the memory thieves, attack the Straw Hats. The Straw Hats were forced to escape empty-handed on the Waver.
On the sea, Sanji prepares dinner. Luffy explains that the reason Luffy did not show up at the same time as Zoro was because he was stuck under a boulder.

At Marine Headquarters, a sailor reports to an officer that they cannot find "him" anywhere, and that "he" has taken his bike, probably to the open sea, much to the dismay of the Five Elders. At the same time, a tall figure whose face was blocked by the sun is seen holding a wanted poster of Luffy while riding a bike across the sea, commenting on the trouble that seems to run in the Monkey family.
On the Going Merry, the Straw Hat Pirates find themselves dealing with a storm that keeps growing larger. Luffy is seen sliding across the deck on top of a barrel. Usopp and Zoro are trying to keep the main mast in place. Chopper fears that it will snap, but Sanji eases his stress, stating that Nami will get them out of it. They then spot Silver Foxy, Porche, and Hamburg on a life boat. A big wave comes and their boat would have been endangered if they were to get caught in it. Foxy tries using is Devil Fruit powers, but it has no effect. Luffy, seeing their predicament, sends his rubber arm to grab them, but they hit the side of the Going Merry. Foxy's life boat gets destroyed.
In the kitchen, the three sit wrapped around thick blankets and Foxy becomes sad at how bad his life is turning out and believes he would be better off dead. Sanji tries to raise their spirits with some soup, only for Foxy to criticize his cooking. Porche goes looking for Chopper to share her soup with. When Chopper hears her voice, he freezes and uses his powers to change in horn point.
The next day, Usopp, Luffy and Hamburg are fishing. Foxy goes on the deck, searching for food. He accidentally mistakes Nami's orange hair for an orange and she beats him. Hamburg spots the Sexy Foxy and informs Foxy about it. Foxy, Hamburg, and Porche yell from the tip of their lungs to signal the ship. The two ships dock next to each other. Robin informs Chopper, who is hiding in a barrel, that they were leaving. Chopper is relieved that Porche is gone.
On board the Silver Foxy, the entire population of the ship is seen crying. Then the captain of the Fang Frog Pirates, Kibagaeru, emerges and informs them that he owns the ship and everything aboard. Foxy walks away with disbelief, but Kiba challenges him to a Davy Back Fight. Foxy accepts his challenge without any hesitation. Luffy tells the crew to watch.
Foxy then launches a Slow Slow Beam, but it is ricocheted back to him by a shield of swords. The Straw Hats are absolutely surprised at the event. Kiba's men go on the offensive and attack Foxy, throwing a barrage of punches at him. Hamburg uses his club and makes his way through. Kiba then grabs Porche and holds a knife towards her throat and threatens to slit her throat if Hamburg does not surrender his weapon. Hamburg drops it and the effects of Slow Slow beam wear off and the barrage of punches make Foxy to fall. Hamburg falls also after being beaten up. Kiba laughs and points out that Foxy is a weakling, but Luffy stands out in protest, stating that he cheated. Kiba stated that he did challenge him, but Kiba did not accept. Foxy uses his trickery to fool the crew, but they catch up to his ruse and fire a canon at him.
On the Going Merry, Chopper and Robin are seen playing a board game. Chopper wonder if he should go check but Robin point out the Porche will just chase him again. Realizing that, Chopper apprehensively throws the dice and moves his pawn. Robin chuckles.
The smoke lifts and Foxy is down on the ground in agony. The Foxy loyal crew members look on in disbelief. One tries to save him, but is whipped by Kiba. Foxy gets back up and asks Kiba to back down, stating that Kiba is a bully controlling strong thugs. Kiba whips him again and Luffy rushes to his side. Foxy gives him the afro Luffy used in the boxing match against him. Luffy removes his straw hat and puts on the afro. Luffy prepares for a showdown, but Kiba refuses to fight a pirate worth 100,000,000.

The Straw Hats are deceived by Foxy, who uses his Noro-Noro Beam to trap them in place and drop them into a deep pit on the deck of the Sexy Foxy. Luffy busts through one of the pit's walls, and the Straw Hats are confronted with Foxy, who has taken up an obvious disguise that Luffy nonetheless fails to see through. Eventually Sanji sets him on the right track, and Foxy makes a getaway covered by his powers. Luffy, Nami and Usopp chase after him, while Sanji and Zoro are frozen in a compromising position.
Nami and Usopp find a door with a message that only men can enter. When they both go in, they find that it is a passage over the Sexy Foxy's brig, filled with the Foxy Pirates' troublemakers that have not seen a woman in a long time. Nami finds it too uncomfortable to cross, so Usopp reasons that the prisoners will be vulnerable to light after their time in the dark brig, and throws a flash-bang. Nami is able to make it through, although Usopp trips and falls, and the prisoners hold him in place.
Luffy and Nami arrive in a large atrium, where Foxy, Porche and Hamburg attack them with the Gorilla Puncher 13 and Donkey Kicker 18. Inspired by Luffy calling for water after he burns his hand on the machine's fist, Nami uses Thunderstorm Tempo to put out the fires, allowing Luffy to smash the Gorilla Puncher and use Gomu Gomu no Spinning Top to collide it with the other machine and defeat them both. Afterward, the Straw Hats and Foxy convene on the deck and agree to end hostilities. Foxy then tearfully asks his crew if they will still accept him, which they enthusiastically confirm. However, as the Straw Hats return to their own ship, Foxy privately tells his subordinates that they must defeat Luffy or they will be stuck flying his ridiculous flag forever.
The Straw Hats disembark on an island, where Sanji starts a barbeque. Foxy, Porche, and Hamburg attack in a large crab-shaped submarine which they are confident will be mistaken for an ordinary crab, and their prediction comes true as Luffy grabs the sub's leg and tries to bring it to the barbeque. When its pilots try to shake him off, Luffy angrily retaliates and slams the submarine into the beach, causing it to explode. Porche calls a backup ship and the three return to the Sexy Foxy. 
The Straw Hats decide to venture into the island's jungle to search for medicinal herbs. They are confused by what looks like a bicycle track along the jungle path. Eventually, they come to a clearing with what looks to be a mushroom growing from a rock. Chopper goes to investigate and is struck out from behind the rock. When the others follow, they see that Chopper actually disturbed the sleep of a mysterious man, the sight of whom sends Robin into a panic. She explains that the man is one of the strongest individuals enlisted in the Marines: the Admiral Aokiji. He responds by saying that she's grown into a beautiful woman, seeming to recognize her.

The crew is shocked to see Robin panicking at the sight of the man they met, and immediately faced him, ready to attack. She tells the crew that the man is marine Admiral Aokiji one of the three Admirals: Akainu, Aokiji, and Kizaru; one of the World Government's three greatest power. Usopp questions why Aokiji is there but Aokiji ignored him and turned towards Nami and tells her that she is a "super-babe", which angers Sanji and Usopp.
Aokiji explains to them that he is only out for a walk. The crew questions Robin if she had mistaken Aokiji for another man, because of the way he talks, as his speeches are messed up, and forgot what he was supposed to say. Aokiji defends himself that they should not judge people by their appearance and that his motto is "Justice with laziness", to which both Sanji and Usopp agree. Aokiji then lies down saying that he is tired, which made Usopp question why he was sleeping while standing up, and says that he doesn't have plans to capture them and that he came there only to check up on Robin's whereabouts after the events of the Arabasta incident. He also tells them that he will report Robin being with the Straw Hats to headquarters, saying that the crew's total bounty will change from Luffy and Zoro's bounty of  160,000,000 to 239,000,000 because of Robin's bounty of  79,000,000 though Aokiji has trouble summing it up. Luffy tries to attack Aokiji but is held back by Usopp and Sanji. Aokiji tells him that he will not do anything when a group of people who are stranded on the island after their ship was wrecked.
Chopper tends to their injuries while Sanji cooks the food that he and Usopp have gathered. While eating, Nami asks what happened to them to which they replied that on their way home from their tour, a giant frog doing a crawl stroke collided with their boat. The group drifted to the island and waited for help when they saw a man riding a bicycle in the middle of the sea, which Usopp found absurd. Aokiji admitted that it was him, the man riding the bicycle. Luffy then remembered that he was supposed to attack Aokiji, but Sanji and Usopp stops him again, with Aokiji stating that he is only taking a walk. Luffy keeps arguing with Aokiji saying that he should go.
Aokiji decides that it is time to go and that he will help the group of stranded people get off the island, telling them to get ready and that there is a populated island nearby. Luffy warns the group that Aokiji is a marine, which prompt a man to ask what the problem is, and makes Luffy realize that normally marines are the good guys and pirates are the bad guys. Usopp and Chopper question how the group will get off the island when there are no boats nearby. Aokiji tells them not to worry, to which Robin replied that it is possible because of his powers.
When the group is almost done preparing, they, along with everyone else, went to the shore. The Straw Hats help them secure their food and supplies, with Sanji saying that there is enough food for ten people. Luffy and Nami are relieved when Aokiji is really telling the truth when he said that he will help them, but Luffy still wonders how he will help them. Aokiji proceeds to the shore, tells everyone to stand back, and puts his hand in the water while everyone watches in anticipation. Suddenly, a Sea King appears, startling everyone, and Usopp and Luffy shouts at Aokiji to run and watch out, however, Aokiji just sat there still, ignoring everyone else and the beast. Luffy and Zoro prepares to attack when Aokiji activates his power, Ice Age, ultimately freezing the sea along with the Sea King, shocking everyone. Aokiji returns to retrieve his coat while stating that the ice should last a week, and telling the group to follow the ice path in order to reach a populated island in 4 days. Overcoming their shock, the group thanks Aokiji, saying that he made a miracle.
After everything is set, the group is ready to head out, and the Straw Hats see the off. The group thanks the Straw Hats for their help, with Luffy and the others telling them to take care. The crew have fun on the ice for a while and return back, when they saw Aokiji sitting on the ground watching them. Luffy asks why he is staring, and Aokiji replied that he is like his grandfather. Upon hearing him mention this, Luffy starts to sweat while Aokiji tells them that long ago, his grandfather used to cause a lot of trouble for him. He also tells them that he came for Robin and to have a look at Luffy, and says that he should just kill them off right there. He explains that even if the World Government is still ignoring them, if they study their backgrounds and past deeds, though small in group, they will be troublesome for them. Aokiji continues that what makes their crew dangerous is Nico Robin. Luffy angrily shouts at Aokiji that he will beat him up, but Aokiji ignored him and proceeds to tell them that Robin's bounty not only shows her strength, but also reflects on the threat she poses to the World Government. Aokiji, albeit mockingly, compliments how well she did to survive as a child by betraying her partners and using them as tools, surviving the underworld concerned with only herself, and asks her if the crew is her next hiding place.
Sanji is angered by this asking him what his grudge against Robin is, to which Aokiji answers that he has no grudge but explains them that if there is any connection between him and Robin, it is because he failed to capture her once. He tells them that when they take her in, they will soon regret it, telling them that every organization that she have been was completely destroyed except herself. The crew defends Robin saying that they do not care about the past and that she is their friend. The Admiral states that she has become popular with the group, triggering Robin to use her devil fruit ability to grab hold of him. Aokiji calmly says that he is disappointed at her and tells her that he overestimated her and that he thought she was a more intelligent woman, but Robin uses her Treinta Fleur: Cluth, and shatters Aokiji's body like ice, leaving the crew shocked. However the crew is shocked more when the ice reforms and turns into Aokiji.
Aokiji calmly stands up, and cuts a few grass and throws them in the air. He blows at it, freezing it in the process, in order to make an Ice Saber, and swings it at Robin. As it was about to hit, Zoro intercepted it and Sanji kicks the saber out of Aokiji's hand using his Slice Shoot. Luffy went in to attack using his Gomu Gomu no Pistol, but before his attack connects, Aokiji suddenly grabs Zoro's arm and Sanji's leg. When Luffy's attack connects, Aokiji uses his powers to freeze his own body, along with Luffy's fist, Zoro's arm, and Sanji's leg, leaving the rest of the crew shocked and scared. With all three down, Chopper voice his concern about their frozen body parts, saying that if they do not treat it fast, they will get frostbite and that their tissues will rot. Nami shouts at Robin to run away, however she is ignored. Aokiji tells Robin that even if she had found some good friends, she'd still be the same, which Robin tries to tell him that he is wrong, and that she is no longer the same before. However, before Robin could finish what she was saying, Aokiji grabs her in a bear hug and proceeds to freeze his body, ultimately freezing her own as well, while the crew watches in horror.

Aokiji tries to crush the frozen Robin underfoot, but Luffy slides her out of the way to Usopp and Chopper. Luffy urges them to return her to the ship to thaw her, determined to fight the Admiral himself. Once there, Chopper and Usopp run the shower over her to slowly thaw her, but Chopper is uncertain if he'll be able to resuscitate her once thawed. Nami arrives shortly after with Zoro and Sanji. The latter two thaw their frozen limbs in the sea before returning to the battle to help Luffy, while Nami assists Chopper and Usopp in thawing and reviving Robin.
Aokiji tells Luffy that the world is better off if Robin is not saved, but Luffy refuses to leave his crew behind. Luffy kicks him in the air and attempts Gomu Gomu no Storm, but Aokiji breaks himself apart and reconstitutes around Luffy, freezing him with Ice Time and placing his frozen body on the ground. Aokiji contemplates the fight, and thinks Luffy challenged him one-on-one to save his crew, perhaps even not concerned about winning. As Zoro and Sanji approach, Aokiji leaves Luffy's frozen body and departs, saying he owes the pirate for defeating Crocodile. Although he briefly mentions a message from Smoker (but only that it was "something stupid"), Luffy can't hear him anyway. Before he bikes across the sea, he notes that the Straw Hat Pirates will be heading to Water 7 next, getting them close to World Government headquarters.
Some time later, Chopper comes up from the sick bay and tells the crew tearfully that Robin and Luffy's hearts have resumed beating. Sanji goes to prepare a meal for them, while Chopper tells the others to let them recover for a bit. Usopp collapses, confiding in Zoro that he's unsure how long he can take the growing power of the enemies they are facing. They remain at the deserted island for four days while they recover before setting sail again.
A week after their encounter with Aokiji, Sanji lets the crew sample a dish of potato paille while Luffy jokes about having been frozen. Robin finally appears, having taken a bit longer to recover than Luffy, and asks for some coffee. Luffy soon finds Yokozuna, that frog that the shipwreck survivors from the previous island told them about that was able to swim with a crawl stroke instead of a normal frog swimming motion. He insists on following it, manually changing course and paddling the Going Merry to Nami's chagrin, hoping to catch and eat the frog. Suddenly, they find themselves near a lighthouse, and by what looks like a railroad crossbuck, with the lights and bells going off. As a train whistle sounds, something approaches them very fast, causing Nami to order full reverse in a panic.

After being defeated by Aokiji, the Straw Hat Pirates have fully recovered and have managed to return sailing to the sea. But, along their way, Zoro sees a giant frog swimming crawl stroke and he informs the crew. He asks them to turn back and see it.Luffy orders his crew to make the Going Merry follow it. Nami with her telescope looks around and wonders why there was a lighthouse on the island. She thinks there are people there. The frog is flying up left the ship and Luffy orders his crew to corner the frog. But, they feel the ship hit something and heard a sound around them. The Traffic light is seen and suddenly heard a sound of a train move to them. Nami warns the crew to turn back one hundred eighty degrees while Luffy is surprised after being hit.
The train moves inches past them and Sanji surprised to see it. Usopp is surprised with the iron thing that moves in the sea but Nami is the most surprised that there are trains that move in the sea with that shape. Luffy warns the frog to go away from the train rail but the frog ignores him and gets hit by train and faints. Luffy, Usopp and Chopper are surprised.
A child sees the pirates and calls her grandma because there are pirates near their house. The Grandma orders the child to take Den Den Mushi falling to the left side. The child hands Den Den Mushi over to her grandma. She begins to call but she forgets to call whom.
Straw Hat Pirates and two become friendly. They introduce themselves as Chimney, her rabbit Gonbe and Kokoro. Kokoro asks if the crew train thieves. Luffy introduce himself and Nami asks how the train moves at the sea. Chimney answer that the crew had been not seeing them. Chimney also said that this is only one train in the world where they can't find. That train is called "Puffing Tom". It moves with the steam and walks along the sea trail. It transports people from the island to another island with the trail underwater and walks with the same trail everyday. It transports foods and things too. It is dangerous to enter the trail with sign and signal. Usopp recommend Chimney to put the signal near the traffic light because he and his crew nothing know about it. Luffy says a frog was hit and Chimney asks if Luffy is talking about Yokozuna. She said that Yokozuna will not die, and it is the biggest problem for the station. Chimney explains that the frog takes a test of strength against the train and Luffy exclaims that Yokozuna is really brave. Chimney becomes angry and scolds Luffy to stop joking because it is really disturbing. She says it causes a lot of problems for her. Luffy says he will not eat it who had been hard-working. Nami said Luffy wasn't even thinking about it before. Kokoro asks where the crew will go. She says that if the crew ride that train, it will take the crew to St. Poplar, Pucci and San Faldo which are all fun places.

The Straw Hat Pirates venture through the waterways of Water 7. They ride their yagara bulls to the market district of the town. Nami points out the mysterious masked people in the streets. 
Meanwhile, Mikazuki, captain of the Big Helmet Pirates, refuse to pay their shipwrights for repairing their ship. Their shipwrights, who work for the Galley-La Company, fight the pirates, ultimately defeating them using a cannon.
The Straw Hat Pirates use a sluice-gate elevator to reach the Shipbuilding Island. There, they find a crowd praising Lucci, one of the shipwrights of the Galley-La Company. A citizen explains that the Galley-La Company is the pride of Water 7. The Straw Hats then head to the gold exchange to exchange their gold for money.
Meanwhile, Chopper and Robin are shopping at the back street market. They are about to enter a bookstore when a masked figure says, "CP9" to Robin. Chopper goes inside and leaves without buying any books, only to find that Robin was nowhere to be found.
Back at the ship, mysterious figures jump on the deck and confront Zoro. Zoro demands to know who they are.

The men who raided the ship reveals themselves to be a group of bounty hunters known as the Franky Family. Zoro defeats the bounty hunters easily using the Nitoryu Sai Kuru move.
At the gold exchange, the Straw Hats exchange their gold from Skypiea for money. Surprised at how much gold was exchanged, the teller consults the owner, who takes them to the VIP room to inspect the gold. Due to the historical value of the gold, the appraiser gives 300 million beli. Upon walking out of the gold exchange, they are overheard by the Franky Family.
The Straw Hats return to the location where the crowd was. They decide to look for Iceburg, one of the members of the Galley-La. Instead, they meet with Kaku, another member of the company, who agrees to help repair the ship. To their shock, however, Kaku jumps off Shipcrafting Island and leaps extremely high into the air.
Meanwhile, Sanji buys fruit from one of the market vendors. He is told to also visit the fish store to buy fish, but he struggles to navigate the maze-like sidewalks. He then sees Robin, who is following the masked figure. However, when Sanji follows Robin around a corner, Robin is nowhere to be found.
At the shore where the Going Merry is anchored, Kaku arrives to assess the damage. He accidentally wakes Zoro, who confronts him.
At the Shipbuilding Island, Iceburg and his secretary, Kalifa, identify the Straw Hats as pirates, and finds that three out of the seven members are wanted. Initially, they do not act against the Straw Hats, but after Luffy refers to Iceburg as "that guy," Kalifa beats Usopp for lacking the respect towards Iceburg. She then, however, kicks Iceburg in the face for warning the Straw Hats about her temper. Luffy shows Iceburg the letter from Kokoro, to which Iceburg rips up the letter, then says that Kaku has already assessed the damage and repair price.
Usopp then realizes that his money had been stolen. The Franky Family members laugh as they escape with their money.

As Usopp continues to pursue the Franky Family, the latter was stopped by Paulie (a shipwright foreman in dock #1) as he was escaping from debt collectors. After realizing the money in the yagara he stole from the Franky Family, he tried to run away with the money and Luffy tried to stop him but Lucci stopped Luffy and said he'd do it, it was shown that Kaku is now checking the floorboard of Merry. As Lucci successfully stopped Paulie from taking the money, Franky Family was introduced to Usopp, Nami, and Luffy as demolition workers and that they are bounty hunters on the side. After the money was returned to the Straw Hats, Lucci and Paulie engage in a fight that did not last long and finally the Straw hats was permitted to enter Dock #1.
Inside the dock #1, as Kalifa states how Galley La company was built, Luffy on the other hand was shown asking Iceburg to join their crew, Iceburg then ask if they have no shipwright in the crew which Luffy proudly admitted and stated that they went to Water 7 to find a shipwright and to make him join their crew, which lead them again to the subject of Luffy asking Iceburg to be one of their crew, which was rejected right away by Iceburg saying that he is the mayor of Water 7.
Iceburg suddenly asked if Nico Robin is really their crewmate, Luffy confirmed and said that Robin is a smart woman. Usopp was seen admiring craftsman work when he was suddenly attacked, again  by the Franky Family. On the other hand, as Chopper tries to find Robin, he found Sanji in stead.
Kaku finally returned and Zoro was shown in Merry's deck remembering the conversation with Kaku. Back to Luffy and Nami, one of the craftsmen of Galley la company (GLC) brought back the cases that Usopp was carrying. As Luffy and Nami go on and on about how they want Merry repaired, and that they would pay enough, as they were stopped by Kaku and said that the Straw hats have been having some tremendous journey. Luffy said that it was true and told them about their adventures and asked that they don't believe him, only to be answered by Kaku that he believes Luffy because Merry's scar from battles are too deep, and said that Merry was beyond repair even with the GLC's capability, Merry's chances of reaching the next island would be zero.
In the last scene, Zoro was shown looking at Merry, asking her if it's true that she can no longer sail.

The episode starts off with Sanji and Chopper sailing back to the merry after failing to find Robin. Sanji questions if Robin not returning has something to do with what Aokiji told them about Robin. They agree if she's ok she will eventually turn up at the Going Merry.
The episode shifts to Luffy and Nami who learn that the Merry is irreparable. Luffy and Nami refuse to accept it but they are informed that the "keel" of the ship has been damaged too bad to be repaired. (The keel is the bottom part of the boat; it holds the boat together and is basically its backbone.) Luffy and Nami ask if they can build an exact replica, but the carpenters say it's impossible because of the differences in wood type and material across islands. They will need an entirely new ship.
Government officials show up to talk to Iceberg while Nami and Luffy hide. While carrying the suitcases Luffy realizes two are lighter. They open them up and see that 200 million beri is gone. Luffy swears to find the money and runs off in an unknown direction. Nami meanwhile asks where the Franky hideout is and heads in that direction.
One the way to the Franky hideout, Nami finds Usopp. It appears he has been beaten up and left on the sidewalk. He cries that he is the one responsible for letting the money slip away and is worried about facing the crew after screwing up. Nami tells him the hideout isn't far away and tells him to stay put. She has to return the money to the Merry first before getting Usopp help. The scene cuts to the Franky family celebrating such a big heist. As they celebrate the door blows up, and behind it is Usopp with his sling shot.

The episode starts off with the scene of Usopp standing in the doorway of the Franky House, demanding the money back from the Franky Family. Members of the Franky House mock him and call him weak, leading him to attempt to attack Franky. Franky dodges, and continues to mock Usopp while Usopp is down on the floor and out of breath. After a final kick to the chin, Franky leaves Usopp with the rest of his family members and says he's going out shopping with the Straw Hats money. However, Usopp shoots an exploding star at Franky, that doesn't affect him at all. As Franky leaves the house, members of the Franky Family beat up Usopp. 
The scene then switches to Nami, wielding a pistol and protecting the last briefcase of money on the Going Merry, while reassuring herself that "they" (Chopper, Sanji, and Zoro, who are presumably going to get Usopp and head to the Franky House), can do it and she would only be a burden if she went along with them. 
The episode switches to the perspective of Chopper, Sanji, and Zoro, who seem to have went the wrong way, as Usopp is not where Nami told them he would be. Chopper then notices a trail of blood, leading them to realize that Usopp might have gone to the Franky House on his own. Suddenly, Luffy falls out of the sky and lands in the canal. After Luffy was saved, they are assured that Usopp probably went to the house by himself. 
We then see the government officials who visited Iceburg leaving Iceburg's office. The main government official of the group then goes on to talk about how Iceburg might have "it", insinuating that he has something of importance. From the perspective of Iceburg, Kalifa knocks on the door, and they speak about the "it" that the government official, Corgi, was referring to, telling us that he has whatever "it" is. We then see a wanted poster of a young Nico Robin on the wall of Iceburg's office. 
The perspective then switches to Chopper, Zoro, Luffy, and Sanji, who find an unconscious Usopp outside of the Franky House. Seeing Usopp that way fueled their anger, and they head into the Franky House. The group walks in on a bunch of money-high Franky Family members, who are partying. After seeing one of the members get punched, the rest of them become scared. However, they gain back their confidence which immediately disappears again after Luffy punches through steel armor. After the Franky Family members lose, the scene cuts to Franky himself, getting on a train, and then back to the Straw Hats who decide to go back to the ship instead of chasing Franky. Luffy also decides they will say goodbye to the Going Merry.

The episode begins with Usopp waking up after he was beaten unconsious by the Franky Family. It is also noted that Nico Robin has not yet returned to the ship.
He is informed by Luffy that the stolen money probably can not be retrieved and that the crew has decided to buy a new ship instead of repairing the Going Merry. Usopp is enraged by this, which prompts Luffy to clarify that it is impossible to repair the Merry with the damage she has sustained. Usopp refuses to accept this and thinks that Luffy has abandoned the Merry. The two get into a fight which eventually prompts Usopp to leave the crew. This was not only due to the current situation, but a culmination of Usopp's insecurity that he was too weak to be a part of the Straw Hat Pirates. This ends with Usopp challenging Luffy to a duel for the rights to the Merry.
Later that night, Nami tries to dissuade Luffy from fighting with Usopp. This is unsuccessful and Luffy still wishes to fight Usopp. Chopper tries to heal Usopp, but he also refuses. Later, Usopp and Luffy meet for the fight.

As promised, Usopp returns to Scrap Island at 10pm for the duel with Luffy. Luffy tells him not to have any regrets regardless of the outcome. Usopp replies that, unlike previous enemies, he is well aware of what Luffy is capable of, and is ready to defeat him. He tells Luffy to come at him with everything he has. The rest of the Straw Hat Pirates watch from the deck of the Going Merry with varying degrees of concern.
Usopp starts with some of the boasts he made when they first met. When Luffy comes at him with Gomu Gomu no Pistol, Usopp uses his Hissatsu Ketchup Boshi to fake coughing up blood. This stops Luffy in his tracks out of concern. Usopp mocks him for showing pity on the enemy, and blinds him with a Flash Dial, then hits him with Hissatsu Tamago Boshi, pelting his former captain with rotten eggs. Luffy tells Usopp to get serious; Usopp says he is, reminding him that this is how he fights. Usopp shoots Hissatsu Tabasco Boshi right in Luffy's mouth, making him spit fire and fall back right onto a pile of caltrops, scratching up his body. When Luffy gets up, Usopp knocks him back down with Hissatsu Koshou Boshi, which explodes in a cloud of ground pepper. Luffy coughs in fits and repeatedly lands in the caltrops.
Luffy recovers enough to finally get out of the caltrops, remarking how much it hurts. Usopp says he will not give Luffy a chance to retaliate, and starts to amp up the danger with Shuriken Ryuuseigun, firing strings of throwing stars at Luffy, forcing him to focus on dodging. He gets in an area that appears to be smoky. Usopp says it is actually gas coming from a Breath Dial, but he could not smell it because of the rotten eggs. Usopp fires Kaen Boshi, setting off a tremendous explosion that throws Going Merry back from the shore. For a moment, Luffy lays on the ground and thinks about the past with Usopp. The water thrown up by the explosion makes it look like the ship itself is crying.
Usopp remarks he knows that explosion would not kill Luffy. Luffy tries to attack with Gomu Gomu no Gatling, but Usopp responds with Sakuretsu Saboteso Boshi, which explodes on Luffy's fist and pummels Luffy with small pins. Usopp fires several Sanren Kayaku Boshi at Luffy, forcing him to dodge the resulting explosions. Luffy finally knocks Usopp back with Gomu Gomu no Pistol. But when he tries Gomu Gomu no Bazooka, Usopp catches it with an Impact Dial and dishes it back out on Luffy, knocking Luffy back, but also injuring his arm with the recoil. That was the last of Usopp's tricks. Out of ideas, he stands there and takes it as Luffy fires Gomu Gomu no Bullet, punching him hard in the chest and knocking him out, winning the duel.
Putting his straw hat back on, Luffy tells Usopp that he can keep the Going Merry, and bids him goodbye. Chopper wants to treat him, but Sanji stops him, saying it is wrong to show pity on the loser of a duel. Chopper still leaves some supplies for him to help treat himself. As he returns to the ship, Luffy tears up, commenting on the heavy burden. Zoro responds that it is the burden of the captain, and the rest of the crew relies on him to bear it. As Luffy, Chopper, and Nami tear up over this turn of events, the crew then leaves the ship, and a crying Usopp, behind.

Usopp is alone on the Going Merry, reflecting on how Luffy defeated him and left him behind. Meanwhile, the crowd investigates an incident.
On top of a building, Sanji and Chopper were about to start searching the town for Robin, before Nami interrupts and tells Luffy that Iceburg was shot in his own home, with the only clue being an ornate mask at the scene. Kaku and Lulu were speculating on who was responsible, suspecting Corgi of the World Government, while the citizens suspect the Franky Family and the Big Helmet Pirates. Lucci and Kalifa visited Iceburg, who was comatose, in the hospital.
Nami and Luffy ride on a Yagara to investigate the assassination attempt. Nami finds an unconscious Usopp in the streets, reflecting on how Usopp left the crew. Meanwhile, Franky returns from his shopping spree back to Water 7, only to be shocked at how the Franky House was destroyed. The Franky Family members who regained consciousness confirm that the Straw Hat Pirates were responsible, and they were likely headed for Dock No. 1. 
At the lighthouse, due to strong wind, Kokoro declares that the Aqua Laguna was reaching Water 7, so she headed for the mainland. A citizen explains to Sanji that the Aqua Laguna was an annual high tide that flooded much of the city, so the people of Water 7 evacuate to higher ground.
While Sanji and Chopper continue searching for Robin, Nami and Luffy find that Dock No. 1 was crowded due to the assassination. However, the crowd is chased away after being approached by Franky, leaving only the Straw Hats behind. 

Franky continues to call out to Luffy urging for a fight. Luffy is confused on how the stranger knows his name but Nami quickly informs in that is Franky. Luffy then finally recognizes that man responsible for beating up Usopp and calls out to Franky wanting to fight.
Back at the hospital, Kalifa informs the others of the Galley-La Company that Iceburg is now awake but still badly injured and can go into his room to see him. Paulie informs Iceburg that he and the rest of the company will watch over the shipyard until he recovers. Iceburg then immediately tells the others that he remembers who attacked him and says that one of them was with the Straw Hat Pirates indicating Nico Robin. Outside, the people are excited to hear that Iceburg is awake.
Back at the shipyard, Franky taunts Luffy about attacking his gang and destroying his house. Nami only wants their money back but Franky says that he has already spent it. However, Luffy doesn't care about the money and wants revenge. The people suddenly start to move away as Franky suddenly starts taking in a large amount of air. Franky then suddenly lets out a large amount of fire that nearly hits Luffy, Nami, and the other Water 7 citizens. Nami assumes that Franky has Devil Fruit powers and Franky suddenly leaps into the water much to the confusion of Luffy and Nami. Franky then suddenly crashes into the boat sending Luffy and Nami into the air and Franky says that he hasn't ate a Devil Fruit. As Luffy falls toward Franky, Franky launches his Strong Right move right at Luffy sending him flying across the water, into the wall, and downward right on the top of his head. Franky moves onto shore as the other people run away and Nami wonders if Franky doesn't have Devil Fruit powers, then what is he. Franky then takes off his hand saying he's actually a human with robotic parts, also known as a cyborg.
Back at the Galley-La Company, Paulie is confused and shocked to hear that one of the Straw Hats attempted to murder Iceburg. Kalifa confirms this and says that she had Lucci contact the government for more information. Hattori then says that Robin is a notorious criminal and is no surprise that she will do something so sadistic. Kaku then says that the next thing to do is to find the Straw Hats and Lulu wonders if they did this because they wouldn't fix their ship. However, Kaku sums up that the Straw Hats are responsible and must be dealt with. At a different location, Sanji and Tony Tony Chopper are sailing on a boat still looking for Robin. Chopper is still worried about the large wave that will sink Water 7 underwater but Sanji remembers that Chopper left something behind on the Merry. Sanji then turns around much to the excitement of Chopper.
At the Galley-La Company, Tilestone charges into the room loudly excited to hear that Iceburg is awake (much to the disdain of the others due to Tilestone's loud yelling). Annoyed, Paulie knocks Tilestone out of the room telling him to keep it down as Iceburg needs the silence to recover. Tilestone then apologizes and then tells Paulie that Luffy and Franky are fighting and destroying the entire shipyard in the process. Paulie is clearly angered by this and Hattori says that at least they know where to find him. Paulie then leads the other members of the Galley-La out to confront Luffy and Kalifa informs Iceburg that now he has peace and quiet. At the shipyard, Luffy and Franky continue to brawl as they wreck the shipyard as they fight. Luffy launches his Gomu Gomu Pistol which sends Franky flying backwards and Franky retaliates with a giant blast (Weapons Left). Luffy dodges the attack and attempts to counter back with a kick but Franky blocks it. Suddenly, both Franky and Luffy are suddenly punched backwards and it was revealed to be by Galley-La. The people are excited to see them and Luffy is just as confused to why they attacked him. Franky warns Galley-La not to interfere with his fight with Luffy but Galley-La simply ignores him and Paulie questions Luffy. Paulie then uses Rope Action on Luffy and slams him onto the ground (Rope Action: Haafu-Notto Ea Doribu). Franky yells out in frustration about Galley-La attacking Luffy, but the other Galley-La members prepare for a fight. Lulu then fires shots at Luffy who absorbs it due to his Devil Fruit powers and Lulu then roughly kicks Luffy onto the ground. Franky then starts to fire at Galley-La and Kaku falls down from above. Franky attempts to blast him but Tilestone knocks him away with a giant log. Kaku then grabs Franky and slams him onto the ground. Meanwhile, Luffy is in a fist fight with Lucci who eventually knocks him backward with his hand. Luffy still doesn't understand why Galley-La is attacking him and Paulie says that one of the members of the Straw Hats attempted to murder Iceburg. Back in the hospital room, Iceburg is remembering that one of the attackers was indeed Nico Robin and wonders if the masked man is also with the Straw Hats. He also wonders that they are after something important and, outside, the people heard that the Straw Hats are to blame for the attempted murder and are said to capture the Straw Hat Pirates.

After getting up, Franky is surprised to hear that Iceburg has been shot while Nami is shocked to hear that Galley-La is blaming them for the attempted murder. Luffy yells out that they haven't shot anybody but Paulie doesn't believe him. Paulie then says that Iceburg explained that two people attacked him: a tall man with a mask and the other being Nico Robin. Luffy and Nami are extremely shocked to hear this while Paulie thinks that she and the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates came to Water 7 just to murder Iceburg. Franky is surprised to hear that Iceburg survived five shots and Paulie informs him that Iceburg is a tough guy before turning his attention back to Luffy. Suddenly, Luffy is cut on the face by a weapon thrown by Kaku who says that Luffy and the rest of the Straw Hats are wanted: dead or alive. He then says that now that Luffy and the other Straw Hat Pirates have broken the law, the law has turned their back on them. Luffy gets up and explains that they choose to become pirates and doesn't believe that Robin will try and kill someone.
Luffy gets up and wants to talk to Iceburg himself still saying that Robin cannot have done such a thing. Peepley Lulu then says that they won't let Luffy anywhere near Iceburg implying that criminals don't have the right to make demands. The Water 7 citizens then cheer at the remark and some of them manage to hold down Nami. Luffy still doesn't want to believe that Robin will try and kill someone but Paulie ignores his pleas. Paulie warns Luffy that there is no place to run or hide and prepares for a fight. He ties Luffy by his wrist trapping him but Luffy then dodges the blades thrown by Kaku. Paulie taunts Luffy while Luffy says that he still doesn't want to fight. Lulu drops his pistols knowing that Luffy's ability makes him invulnerable to gun shots and takes out saws along with Rob Lucci and Tilestone takes out a cannon. Tilestone fires the cannon and it appears to have hit Luffy. However, Luffy manages to dodge it by grabbing onto a rope that is holding a large crate hanging above at the last second. Lucci jumps up a Luffy with the large saw and misses Luffy but cuts the rope that he was grabbing onto. Luffy lands on the ground and dodges the broken crate pieces that try to fall on him. Luffy nearly runs into Lulu who attempts to attack him with swords but Luffy dodges each attack and backs himself to the nearby wall. Kaku traps Luffy by pinning him down onto the will with his blades and Tilestone blasts him with the cannon.
As a large smoke engulfs the area, Franky can be seen cheering for Galley-La as they overpower Luffy. However, Franky doesn't really mean it as he believes that he is the one that should defeat Luffy. Franky gets up and yells out to Galley-La to get out of his way. However, Kaku simply informs him that once they are done with Luffy, Franky can fight them all he wants. Franky gets real upset thinking that Galley-La is simply ignoring him and begins to charge up a large amount of energy. He then lets it all out a hurricane-powered blast that knocks away Galley-La, the citizens, and destroys Dock One in the process (Coup de Vent). During the blast, Nami escapes by headbutting the man that was trapping her and manages to get out of the blast range. Paulie explains how strong the move is while the large crane falls down and a large amount of smoke emerges the remains of Dock One. Nami is shocked to see how strong Franky really is and notices that there is no more angry mob. Suddenly, Luffy appears, unharmed, telling Nami to run. Luffy says that they must talk to Iceburg and the people notice that they are trying to escape. Luffy grabs onto Nami and grabs onto a building to get away.
Just outside the gates of Water 7, Sanji and Chopper are watching over the Going Merry where Usopp is residing in. Sanji then says that they shouldn't get too close so that Usopp wouldn't recognize them. Sanji and Chopper suddenly start yelling at each other saying how Aqua Laguna is going to hit soon and must evacuate. Usopp starts to come out from the ship and Sanji and Chopper run away before he could notice them. Usopp is confused as he thought he heard someone but remembers how they are talking about the storm and notices the wind starting to pick up. Back at the remains of Dock One, Mozu and Kiwi remind Franky that Luffy and Nami are getting away. However, Franky says that his Coup de Vent exhausted him and his hair is a sign of this. Franky then promises to chase after Luffy again once he is recharged. In another area, Galley-La are getting themselves back up after Franky's last attack. Kaku is surprised at Franky's strength but Paulie remains them that they can't get away. Paulie says that the Aqua Laguna is going to hit soon and there are only two ways they could leave Water 7: by their ship or by the next Sea Train. Paulie knows that they will try to take the Sea Train and tells all of the members of Galley-La to hunt them down. As a Sea Train is heading for Water 7, Chimney and Gonbe can be seen from the window. Kokoro taunts them saying not to fall into the ocean.
Luffy and Nami manage to make it to Galley-La Company but notices a bunch of shipwrights acting like guards. Nami concludes that Iceburg is inside and Luffy then bursts through the window. The people soon recognize Luffy knowing he is after Iceburg and the shipwrights begin to chase him. Luffy is running in the hall trying to look for Iceburg's room but nearly runs into a mob of shipwrights. Luffy runs in the opposite direction while, in another room, Kalifa informs Iceburg that Luffy is in the building. Iceburg then says that he has a plan while Luffy continues to run away from the shipwrights. Eventually, Kalifa notices Luffy and lets him get into Iceburg's room. As the shipwrights reach Kalifa, she informs them that Luffy hasn't been around and the shipwrights begin to scout the area. In Iceburg's room, Luffy thanks Iceburg for saving him from the shipwrights and Iceburg knows that Luffy isn't here to murder him. Luffy wants to hear Iceburg's side of the story about who attacked him and Iceburg concludes that Nico Robin was the culprit. Luffy thinks that there might be someone else that looked like Robin but Iceburg suddenly holds up a gun to him and he wants Luffy to bring Robin to him. Outside, the people are reading the newspaper articles about the Straw Hat Pirates attempting to murder Iceburg. Robin can then be seen reading the same newspaper article and looks down at the people with an emotionless stare.

In his room and still holding a gun to Luffy, Iceburg demands Luffy to bring Robin to him. However, Luffy says that is impossible as he doesn't even know where Robin is himself. Suddenly, a gun shot is fired off and the other shipwrights of Water 7 rush over to Iceburg's room. As the shipwrights enter, it is revealed that Iceburg indeed fired the shot but Luffy had already gotten away. Iceburg then tells the shipwrights to arrest all of the Straw Hat Pirates losing all hope for a direct answer. The shipwrights began to run out as Luffy watches from outside with Nami questioning him about his conversation with Iceburg. Luffy confirms Iceburg's story that Robin shot him but Nami is confused at this. However, Luffy refuses to believe that Robin would try and kill somebody.
At the Steam Train station, Chimney and Gonbe depart from the train with Kokoro following behind. The three begin to walk around and Kokoro starts to talk with a nearby conductor wanting to know what is going on. The conductor informs her that everyone of Water 7 is looking for the Straw Hat Pirates as they were believed that they attempted to murder Iceburg. Kokoro is shocked to hear this while Chimney looks at the newspaper recognizing the Straw Hats. Back at Dock One, Luffy is seen jumping from a high building while holding Nami. He quickly stretches his arm out to grab onto something and lands on top of another building. Nami attacks Luffy for doing that but Luffy reminds her that they couldn't take the elevator due to the shipwrights looking for them. Nami then notices how the climate is changing and the wind is picking up knowing a typhoon is coming. She then concludes that Water 7's weakness is flooding but agrees to head back to the Inn for now.
At Blueno's Bar, Blueno can be seen polishing a glass and Franky, with Mozu and Kiwi, suddenly barge in. Blueno welcomes Franky and Franky needs him to fill up his bottles. Blueno then asks if Franky has money but Franky thinks he has already spent it all. Mozu and Kiwi reveal that they still have a lot of money left over and this disappoints Franky wanting to spend all the money in one day. Franky then treats all the other people in the bar to free drinks and sits down wanting to know where his bottles of cola are. Kokoro then starts to talk to Franky and the cyborg is surprised to see her. Franky expresses his anger about Luffy ruining his days but Blueno appears with Franky's bottles. Franky then stuffs the bottles into his chest and regains his energy. Franky asks Kokoro why she's there and Kokoro says that Aqua Laguna is coming. Kokoro reminds Franky to prepare his house but Franky responds by saying he doesn't have a house anymore. Kokoro then brings up Iceburg being shot and Franky knows about this saying Galley-La and the other citizens are looking for the pirates that did that. Kokoro then says that the pirates didn't try to murder Iceburg but an organization called CP9 are the culprits. Kokoro continues saying that CP9 never really show themselves and Franky wants to know if she has any proof of this. Kokoro then says it's just rumors which angers Franky. However, Kokoro continues saying that they are good at eliminating people without anyone else noticing. At a secret location, a man can be heard talking to Robin who compliments on her attempted assassination of Iceburg. The man then tells Robin that all the citizens of Water 7 are after her but then says that they will infiltrate Iceburg's home at night. The man also says that Iceburg is the last of Tom's Workers that is still alive and that he has something he wants.
Back out in the main area of Water 7, an announcement is being broadcast telling everyone to prepare for Aqua Laguna. More people can be seen boarding up their homes and tying down their boats with another man saying that the pirates will show up soon. Shipwrights are looking for more of the Straw Hat pirates and Zoro can be seen hiding in an alleyway. Zoro is confused to why the shipwrights are chasing after him and a newspaper suddenly flies onto his face. Zoro reads the paper and is shocked to read that he is a culprit in the attempted assassination of Iceburg. The shipwrights overhear Zoro and begin to surround him. Back at the Inn, the shipwrights are questioning the manager with him saying that the Straw Hats were staying at his inn but suspect that they may come back due to them leaving their luggage behind. At the Going Merry, the shipwrights begin searching around. One of the shipwrights questions another about the ship being theirs and the other shipwright confirms it due to their flag. However, another shipwright inspects the ship and says that it's too badly damaged to sail anymore. Usopp can be seen hiding behind a large rock preparing to fire. The shipwrights conclude that the Straw Hat Pirates abandoned the ship and they leave. Usopp is left to wonder who those people were and wonders if anything is going wrong in the city.
Back in town, Luffy and Nami can be seen sneaking around in the alleyways. Nami then worries about the others but says that Sanji and Chopper are safe due to the people not knowing their faces. Sanji can be seen watching over the Sea Train departures with Chopper close by. Chopper wonders if Robin got on a Sea Train and Sanji hopes she hasn't due to the size of the city. Sanji then asks a nearby person if he has seen Robin. The man simply replies that he would've turned her in due to her being an assassin. Sanji and Chopper then start to worry for the others especially with Aqua Laguna coming soon. Suddenly, Chopper begins to pick up a scent and starts to follow it. Chopper begins to run faster with Sanji trying to keep up. Eventually, both Chopper and Sanji spot Robin on the other side of the water and wonders where she has been. Sanji hopes that Robin will come back and tries to find another way to get to her side but she tells him not to. Robin then says that she won't be coming back to the Straw Hat Pirates and Sanji thinks it's because of the newspaper and says that he doesn't believe it. However, Robin confirms that she did try to kill Iceburg and explains that she has a darkness inside her. She warns Sanji and Chopper that the darkness will be the end of them. She says that the situation will get worse and thanks them for all the kindness they have shown her and turns around to leave. Sanji and Chopper are in shock as they watch Robin walk away. Sanji jumps into the water to go after her while Chopper calls out to her name.

Back downtown of Water 7, Sanji and Chopper are still reeling over what just happened with Robin. Chopper says that he has lost her scent and Sanji tells him to meet up with Luffy and the others and explain what had happened with Robin. Sanji then says that he has a plan and will meet up with Chopper and the others later.
In town, Zoro, Luffy, and Nami can be seen running from a group of angry shipwrights. Nami yells at Zoro for leading the angry mob down their way but Zoro responds saying that the whole town would've found them anyway. Luffy, Nami, and Zoro head down an alleyway and manages to hide from the shipwrights. The shipwrights begin looking around in the area trying to find the Straw Hat Pirates and it is seen that Luffy is hiding the others under the bridge. The shipwrights decide to split up and they all leave. Luffy struggles to hang on and is scared into the water by Chopper who has found them due to their scent. At the Timber and Hardware store, Usopp can be seen begging for the man to sell him lumber and equipment. However, the man doesn't want to sell him anything due to him already closing the shop and Aqua Laguna coming. Usopp continues to beg and even holds out a little some of money and the man eventually gives in. Usopp struggles to take the items back to the Going Merry and the man, feeling sorry, gives Usopp some rice balls to keep his strength up. Usopp gladly takes the rice balls and leaves back for the Going Merry. Usopp looks out at the sea noticing the waves starting to rise and begins to fix up the Going Merry.
At Blueno's Bar, Franky can be seen causing a scene. Kokoro, Chimney, Gonbe, Blueno, and Mozu and Kiwi all want to know why Franky is so upset. Franky says that he is still angry about what Luffy did to him and how the Galley-La Company stopped him and he storms out of the bar. Back in town on the rooftops, Luffy and the others are resting just after escaping the angry mob. Luffy asks Chopper where Sanji is and Chopper decides to tell everyone what Sanji wanted to tell them. Luffy is shocked to hear this and Zoro comments on how Robin was their enemy before she joined their crew. Zoro says that it's the only way to find out the truth about Robin and they shouldn't run away. After hearing more from Chopper, Zoro says that the attempted murder on Iceburg was just a warm up and wonders all of the attention it caused. Nami sums up that Robin plans on murdering Iceburg tonight and Zoro says that Robin told Chopper what she is planning so that the rest of the crew will be blamed for the murder as well. Nami yells at Zoro for already saying that Robin is an enemy but Zoro says he is just bringing up the possibilities and says if she is his friend, he has to be ready to forgive but if she is his enemy, he has to be ready to fight. Zoro then says that the best chance to settle this is at night and Luffy and the others agree to go. Nami then remembers hearing that Robin was seen walking with a masked man and wonders if he is the reason why Robin is doing what he is doing. Luffy then says that the goal is to find Robin and capture her as it's the only what they will know the truth. However, Zoro says that capturing Robin won't be easy as the World Government has been trying for over twenty years but the others still agree to do this.
Back in town, Paulie can be seen who is upset that it's late already and wonders where Luffy ran off to. A shipwright informs Paulie that the town will be flooded anytime soon and Paulie informs everyone that he will head into the main office while the other shipwrights head back inside. In another area, Franky is yelling out wanting to know where Luffy is. However, he gets no answer but soon runs into Zambai and the rest of the Franky Family. Zambai wonders if Franky had taken down the Straw Hat Pirates but Franky says that he got away due to the interference of Galley-La. Zambai then says that he saw the "weak one with the pointy nose" fixing up the ship (Usopp) and Franky gets an idea. Franky says that he will capture Usopp and use him as bait to draw out Luffy for a fight. Franky then tells the rest of the Franky Family to get the word out that he has captured Usopp and tell him to meet up in the warehouse under the bridge.
In a shelter, the citizens of Water 7 are preparing for Aqua Laguna's arrival while others are still worried about the Straw Hats not being captured yet. The people think that the Straw Hats have over a hundred members trying to go after Iceburg but, just outside the Galley-La Company, a whole mob of shipwrights can be seen guarding the main entrance. Inside, Paulie, along with Kaku, Peepley Lulu, Tilestone, and Rob Lucci and Hattori can be seen guarding the door leading to Iceburg's room. Tilestone annoys Lucci and Hattori with his loud voice while Peepley Lulu and Kaku know that Luffy and the other Straw Hats are still in the city. Paulie heard about Luffy breaking in earlier and, inside Iceburg's room, Iceburg and Kalifa are talking about Robin. Kalifa is disturbed about Iceburg having Robin's wanted poster up on the wall but Iceburg responds saying she is a "demon". Back outside, Luffy and the others position themselves in a tree and watch over the Galley-La Company. Nami and Zoro say to head inside after Robin and the masked man have done so first while the shipwrights are preparing themselves. Meanwhile, Robin and the masked man had just arrived at the scene ready to put their plan into motion.

Just outside of the Galley-La Company, the mob of shipwrights is guarding every entrance into the building preparing for the said arrival of the Straw Hat Pirates. Chopper is continuing to watch as the shipwrights are surrounding the building and Zoro wants to know what's going on. Chopper says that the shipwrights are just standing around but are armed. Nami urges everyone to be careful as the shipwrights can be deadly when push comes to shove and not to rush in. Luffy agrees not to rush in and Zoro tells Chopper not to take his eyes off of the building as something may happen. Zoro then says that it's their only opportunity to know the truth of Robin and it has to be tonight. Luffy then says that they'll be talking to her soon.
Inside of the Galley-La Company, the mob of shipwrights and Paulie, Kaku, Rob Lucci and Hattori, Peepley Lulu, and Tilestone are still on guard. In his room, Iceburg asks Kalifa to step out of his room and ask Paulie to come inside. Kalifa steps out and informs Paulie that Iceburg needs him and Kalifa decides to head into her office if anyone needs her. Kaku thinks it's an odd time for a one-on-one conversation and he and Paulie wants to know what it's about. Tilestone attempts to talk loudly but Paulie, Kaku, Lucci, and Lulu all knock him out before he can do so. Lulu then tells Paulie to head inside and find out and he and the others will move away to keep the conversation private. Tilestone wants to know what Iceburg is talking to Paulie about but Lulu says that they should be focusing on the pirate problem. Hattori says that they should look out for a pirate crew with seven members and also says that they should really watch out for Luffy, Zoro, and Robin. Kaku says not to underestimate the girl traveling with them or the other guy with the long, round nose. Hattori says that there is them along with two others. As Hattori says to take down the pirates if they set foot on their property, Iceburg and Paulie can be seen talking. Paulie agrees to Iceburg's plea and swears to him that he wouldn't fail. Paulie exits the room and tells everyone that he has to take care of something and Lulu says that he and the others will watch over Iceburg. Paulie then walks off into a room remembering Iceburg telling him to move his desk and reveal a safe underneath. Paulie then enters the combination to try and open the safe.
Just outside, Robin can be seen with the bear-masked CP9 agent and they receive a message from another agent. The agent says that there will be a signal just in a moment and that will be their time to strike. The bear-masked agent asks Robin if she's ready and she confirms so. Suddenly, a large explosion goes off shocking everyone in the area including the shipwrights and the Straw Hats. The bear-masked agent and Robin then make their move and jump into the courtyard. The shipwrights inside are running around trying to find any intruders. Tilestone asks if Iceburg is okay and Iceburg says he is but a little shocked. Tilestone overhears other shipwrights finding a masked man in the building and he and Lulu run off. Kaku attempts to stop them but decides to sit just outside the door along with Lucci. Back outside, some shipwrights are chasing another masked CP9 agent. The CP9 agent easily takes them down and heads up for the room. More shipwrights can be seen being taken down by Robin's ability and the bear-masked agent easily knocks some aside. Chopper continues to watch them down there and Zoro, Chopper, and Nami all notice that Luffy is gone. Zoro and Nami are furious that Luffy rushed off without a plan.
A mob of shipwrights corner Robin and the masked-bear agent and they threaten to kill them. The masked-bear agent pulls out and cape and, as the shipwrights are shooting, he and Robin suddenly disappear leaving the shipwrights confused. Back on the roof, the other masked CP9 agent continues to fight off the shipwrights. The masked agent suddenly starts walking/flying around in the air (Geppou) and takes out a mob of shipwrights with his rose attack (Thorny Rose). The agent heads inside the building while two other CP9 agents arrive. Paulie manages to get what was in the safe but, suddenly, the two CP9 agents appear behind him. The masked agents inform Paulie to hand over the paper and Paulie is horrified to see that they killed off many shipwrights. Paulie then knows that it isn't an assassination plot and the bull-masked agent says that they need the item in Paulie's hands. He then says that since Paulie knows of it, he needs to be taken down as well. Back outside, the shipwrights continue patrolling the area trying to find out where the agents went to. Robin and the bear-masked agent walk to a wall and the bear-masked agent suddenly makes a door into Iceburg's room from the wall. Iceburg is shocked to see this and the bear-masked agent says it's because of the Door Door Fruit. He then shoots Iceburg on the shoulder causing him to fall onto the ground. Robin is surprised by this but the agent says it's not fatal but a warning shot. Iceburg then notices that Luffy has nothing to do with the assassination plot and Robin confirms this. The bear-masked agent then says that Iceburg is alive for two reason: to tell his side of the story of the assassination plot and they were trying to find an important document - blueprints of a ship. The bear-masked agent then says knowing that Iceburg's life is in danger, that he will pass it down to his most trusted. Iceburg then realizes it's a trap and that Paulie is in trouble. The bear-masked agent then tells Robin that he'll go and deal with the people just outside the door and that if the blueprints are retrieve, she'll have to kill Iceburg. He then says that once Iceburg is gone, Paulie will be gone as well and the blame will still be placed on the Straw Hats. Back outside, Zoro, Chopper, and Nami are running toward the building talking about how Luffy recklessly rushed in. They eventually run into a mob of shipwrights and Luffy can be seen stuck between some buildings. Luffy tries to free himself saying that he must get to Robin.

At the Galley-La Company, more shipwrights are being massacred by the bear-masked CP9 agent. The area soon becomes eerily quiet as another group are shipwrights noticed the bear-masked agent has killed off more shipwrights. Tilestone runs to the scene and notices that the bear-masked agent has not only killed off more shipwrights but has seemingly killed Lucci and Kaku as well. Tilestone is visibly shocked and angry at the sight he has just seen and the bear-masked agent says he's getting tired of dealing with all of the shipwrights. Tilestone, in a rage, charges at the masked CP9 agent with his mallet but the agent hardens his body to completely block the attack (Tekkai). The agent then grabs Tilestone's arm and viciously punches him to the ground knocking him out. The other shipwrights attempt to get away but the masked-bear agent quickly runs after them and takes them out as well.
Just outside, Zoro, Nami, and Chopper are running from a mob of shipwrights who are shooting at them. Nami wonders if Luffy isn't there, then where is he. Zoro doesn't know himself but decides to go on the offensive. Chopper says that the shipwrights aren't the enemy but Zoro says he will use the back of his swords to fight. Zoro charges at the group of shipwrights and starts to knock them away with the ends of his swords (with Nami and Chopper informing him that he can still kill the shipwrights that way.
In Iceburg's room, Robin is still watching over an injured Iceburg who is actually glad to meet her face to face. Iceburg suddenly pulls out a gun and Robin responds by pulling out multiple guns using her power. Robin notices that he wanted to kill her and Iceburg demands why she is looking for the Poneglyphs. Iceburg informs her that the World Government has made it illegal to continue research on them and knows that Robin can decipher them. He concludes that, despite being 8 years old at the time, this is why the bounty on her head is so high. Robin confirms his theory and Iceburg admits he didn't believe CP9 exists and notices that Robin left the Straw Hats to help out. Iceburg then says that weapon would never bring peace to the world, only destruction. He then tells Robin to abandon the idea and let it die. Robin simply tells him not to tell her what to do with her research and Iceburg says that they both have a lot in common. Iceburg then says that he has the blueprints for the ancient weapon known as Pluton much to Robin's surprise. Iceburg continues saying how Pluton was a battleship build on the island many years ago and the shipwrights that had the blueprints passed it down fearing that another battleship of equal power would fall into the wrong hands. Iceburg notices that the World Government wants to revive Pluton as there in no force to oppose it. Iceburg as that a man named Tom trusted the blueprints to him and how there was a young girl that could decipher the blueprints. Iceburg attempts to shoot Robin but she quickly pins him down and holds him at gunpoint. Robin says that the government doesn't need her to steal the blueprints as they have already accomplished that. However, Iceburg tells her that they have fallen for his trap.
Back outside close to the Galley-La Company, Luffy is still struggling to get himself free. Luffy manages to grab onto a high pole and pull himself out. Luffy is still determined to find Robin and grabs onto the roof of the Galley-La Company and shoots himself forward toward it (Gomu Gomu Rocket). Inside of a room, Paulie is seen with several holes in his body with blood pouring out and he falls to the ground. The bull masked agent, with the skull masked agent, demand Paulie to hand over the blueprints. Paulie says that he should've run instead of fight and falls to the ground and the blueprints slip out of his hands. The bull masked agent picks up the blueprints and Paulie reveals that they're fakes much to the CP9 agent's shock. Paulie taunts them saying their plan is a failure but both CP9 agents move in for the kill. Suddenly, Luffy comes crashing at the wall but gets stuck in the process. He notices Paulie on the ground injured but then turns his attention to the masked agents demanding them to give back Robin. The skull masked agent kicks away at the wall (Tempest Kick) nearly hitting Luffy but dodges at the last second. However, the bull masked agent kicks him down and pins him to the ground. The skull masked agent does the same with Paulie and asks the other agents not to kill Iceburg yet and to all meet in his room.
Just outside, the soldier agent is seen fighting Peepley Lulu who easily takes him out. She then jumps into the sky and leaves. Back in the room, Paulie asks if Luffy is okay and also apologizes for thinking he tried to kill Iceburg. Luffy accepts his apology saying that they are pirates. Paulie wonders why Luffy came back and Luffy says that the masked people took Robin. Paulie is still willing to fight as he doesn't want Iceburg to die saying he is more than his boss. Back in Iceburg's room, all the agents surround him and Hattori suddenly lands on the bull masked agent's shoulder. The bull masked agent takes off his mask revealing himself to be none other than Lucci while the skull masked agent reveals himself to be Kaku. It turns out that they weren't killed earlier and it was other people disguised as them. The solider reveals herself to being Kalifa and the bear masked agent is Blueno much to Iceburg's shock and horror. Lucci demands to know where the real blueprints for the ancient weapon Pluton are.

Franky is shown watching Usopp fix the Going Merry from afar with Mozu and Kiwi. Usopp is then shown remarking about the weather becoming rough as he patches the ship. Franky then remembers Usopp's determination in getting the 200,000 belly to fix his ship, as he does so Mozu mentions that the ship must be what he needed the money for and Kiwi notes Usopp's ignorance in the weather. Which causes Franky to say that Usopp's plight in fixing the ship is a lost cause. As Franky approaches the ship he repeats his comment about it being useless loud enough for Usopp to hear in order to reveal his presence. After realizing who Franky is Usopp asks why he is here and Franky says that he will just have to take him and the ship hostage due to the storm saying that he has some business with Straw Hat Luffy and has come to kidnap Usopp.
In the Galley-La building courtyard, Zoro is fighting the shipwrights attempting to protect Iceburg, thinking that it is okay because he used the back of his swords to defeat them all. Nami then yells at him for taking them all out when it wasn't necessary while Chopper fauns over Zoro's strength. Nami and Chopper then lead the way through the building while yelling at Zoro for getting lost multiple times claiming it's a miracle. Luffy is shown escaping the metal constraints that the masked men put him and Paulie in while Paulie is amazed at Luffy's devil fruit powers. Once he gets out Luffy starts to work on Paulie's constraints as well.
Lucci is then shown unmasked explaining to Iceburg that the World Government has intelligence agencies named Cipher Pol-1 though Cipher Pol-8 referred to as CP1 or CP8 by most people and that they can dig up any information the World Government needs. Once Iceburg says he is aware of these organizations Lucci goes on to explain that they are actually part of a unit that is supposedly non-existent and is called CP9 saying they are special because they have authorization to kill people who impede the governments wishes in the name of justice. Lucci continues saying that the world government has changed their tactics and decided that rather than living in fear of the weapon that they have decided to take possession of it and use it to end the great pirate era which Iceburg responds with mistrust towards the government and that it will only cause more damage if the weapon is restored saying that he knows human nature. After Lucci kicks Iceburg in the face for still acting like his boss Kaku goes to check his pulse as Lucci begins to lay out their hypothesis saying that Iceburg's pulse will tell them if it's true. 
In a street, Kokoro, Chimney and Gonbe are seen walking as Chimney asks if they are going back yet. Which Kokoro says that since the wind is good for sobering up they will take the long way as she drinks more alcohol which Chimney finds odd and asks if you can get sober while drinking. Kokoro just laughs and says that she can because she has been drinking for several decades. As Chimney and Gonbe run ahead into the fierce wind repeating how weird that is, Kokoro corrects herself and says she has only been drinking for 8 years.
Back in the room with CP9, Robin and Iceburg, Lucci starts telling Iceburg his hypothesis and the thinking behind it. Which starts with him explaining that they have doubts about the fake blueprints that he gave them saying that Iceburg knew that they were from the government, so he gave them a fake but if indeed the person had just come to kill him that the real blueprints would then be lost to the world. So in order to keep the protection of the weapon he had to pass them on to someone else but since he hadn't done it that night he had already entrusted them to someone else or that he doesn't have them with him. Then explaining that this is all a theory and has no proof, he continues his theory by saying that the person entrusted must have reasonable skills as a shipwright, he then pulls out the fake blueprints and notes that the architects had signed their names, them being Tom, Iceburg and Cutty Flam, otherwise known as Tom's Workers. Lucci continues saying that to anybody else this would have passed inspection and they would have believed that they were the real blueprints but because CP9 had been so close to Iceburg they knew about Tom's workers and along with their information from the World Government knew that Tom had had two disciples and that one was confirmed dead. However Lucci recalled the name Cutty Flam from someone who met with Iceburg just after they had started their undercover work. It then shows a flashback of Kalifa telling Iceburg of the man named Cutty Flam but Iceburg tells them to turn him away but that this proves that Cutty Flam is still alive and has actually changed his name to Franky. At which point Iceburg's pulse quickens rapidly, It then shows another flashback of Iceburg meeting Franky with Franky exclaiming that this is a weird way of meeting. Iceburg then gives him the plans for Pluton and tells Franky to no longer use the name Cutty Flam and that Franky should leave with the plans in case that he or Iceburg is targeted. Back in the present Kaku verifies the truth of Lucci's statements with Iceburg's quickened pulse and exclaims that he would have never made that connection. Lucci then says that they were never able to prove Franky's identity but because of his odd behavior and profession they didn't pay attention to him. After commending Iceburg for his smart thinking and explaining how they had the opportunity to meet and exchange the blueprints he then explains that since he doesn't have the blueprints and none of them were entrusted with them then it must have been entrusted with his fellow disciple and that while it may have been speculation Iceburg's pulse confirmed their theory as fact.
In the hallway, Nami, Chopper and Zoro are shown running past injured people, Chopper especially taking notice, Nami finds the correct room and slows down, along with Chopper, to have Zoro cut it down. Which he gets mad at them for ordering him around. Luffy is shown breaking into a room with Paulie yelling at him that it is the wrong room. Back in Iceburg's room Lucci tells Iceburg it really wasn't his fault for giving it up and that he is only human at which point both Luffy and Zoro crash through the walls of the room yelling where is Robin. Both Zoro and Robin are surprised while Lucci shows his annoyance. Luffy says he found Robin while Zoro asks where Luffy has been. Chopper expresses joy at seeing Robin again while both Nami and Paulie ask what is going on. 

Paulie is still in shock that the people he thought were his friends, Rob Lucci, Kaku, Kalifa, and Blueno, are actually with a secret organization known as CP9.
Luffy recognizes them from the shipyard and Zoro remembers Kaku as the one who inspected the Going Merry. Nami says that the attack on Iceburg was an inside job but Chopper is still confused. Lucci informs Paulie that they work for the World Government and threatens to attack Iceburg. Paulie, furious, uses Rope Action Pipe Hitch Knives toward Lucci but the CP9 agent uses Soru to dodge the attack and then takes Paulie down using Shigan. Paulie falls to his knees and Lucci explains how he and the other CP9 agents master an art known as Rokushiki that turns the human body into a living weapon. Paulie briefly remembers how he hanged around with Lucci, Blueno, Kalifa, and Kaku in the past and still doesn't understand why they would do this. Lucci attempts to attack Paulie but Luffy intervenes with a kick but Lucci simply blocks it. Luffy then uses Gomu Gomu no Gatling on Lucci but he blocks it using Tekkai suffering no damage. Lucci, finding Luffy to be a pest, uses Soru to get in closer and then uses Shigan on Luffy's neck. Fortunately, Luffy's ability prevents him from suffering a fatal wound but gets send crashing backwards. Luffy then grabs Paulie much to Lucci's surprise. Luffy then says that he made a promise to beat up the guys that tried to kill Iceburg but then turns to Robin and asks why she is doing this. Robin says she did it to make her wish come true and continues saying she'll make any sacrifice. Zoro speaks up saying that also involves blaming her former crew for murder and Iceburg suddenly speaks up saying Robin has no right to do this. Annoyed, Robin uses her ability to pin down Iceburg and says that nobody is going to get in her way.
Luffy still doesn't want to believe what she is saying with Chopper wondering what happened to her. Lucci walks between them and says that they have an appointment with an important individual saying they're finished with the Straw Hat Pirates. Lucci suddenly asks Kalifa how much time it's left and Kalifa says two minutes. Lucci then informs everyone that the building will be engulfed by fire as fire is the best way to wipe away evidence much to the other's shock. However, Lucci plans on not having the Straw Hats, Paulie, or Iceburg leave alive and the CP9 agents start to close in. Zoro says that it's them against the CP9 agents and that Robin has sided with them but Luffy doesn't want to accept that. One minute remains before the fire goes off and Robin says she'll take her leave. Lucci informs her she did a great job but her former crewmates still ask her to come back. Robin is about to leave through the window and Iceburg tells Luffy not to let her get away. Luffy charges in but Blueno gets in his way. Luffy answers with a kick but Blueno uses Tekkai to block the attack. Luffy is shocked that he hasn't been injured by the attack and Blueno explains that he and the other CP9 agents have trained their bodies to be as hard as an iron wall. Luffy fires a Gomu Gomu no Gatling but Blueno dodges all of the attacks using Kami-e. Luffy notices Robin getting away and stops his attack to chase after her but Blueno once again gets in his way. Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Pistol but Blueno dodges it using Soru and gets behind Luffy. Luffy attempts to attack him again but Blueno gets away using Geppo. Suddenly, Kalifa and Kaku appear behind Luffy and they both use Rankyaku on him sending him backwards. Zoro tells Nami and Chopper to duck out of the way which they do and Luffy is sent flying into the hallway. Zoro charges in but Kaku blocks the Pirate Hunter's swords with swords on his own. Zoro asks Kaku that he lied about the Going Merry's condition but Kaku said that he was correct at his assessment. The two swordsmen go at it and Luffy charges after Robin on Zoro's orders. However, Kaku uses Shigan several times on Zoro knocking the swordsman down while Luffy is caught by Lucci. Lucci then tells Robin to go and Robin makes her escape by jumping out the window. Lucci tosses Luffy down and the others remark how strong the CP9 agents are. Lucci says that they use their skills to hone for absolute justice and says that it's why they are one of the World Government's most elite fighters. Lucci then starts to transform into a large being completely shocking everybody.

Lucci reveals himself to be a user of the Neko Neko no Mi, Model: Leopard, a Zoan-type Devil fruit that turns him into a leopard. Meanwhile, the first floor of Iceburg Mansion is set on fire, so the members of Galley-La run upstairs to check on Iceburg. Lucci keeps them at bay using the Rankyaku move, essentially cutting the entire mansion in half.
Lucci defeats both Luffy and Zoro, sending them both flying into the sea. Nami is also knocked out and thrown out the window. Paulie and Iceburg are left tied up near the fire. The members of CP9 then leave to get the blueprints from Franky.
Lucci confronts members of the Franky Family, who refuses to give answers as to where Franky was staying. Meanwhile, in Franky's warehouse, Franky is talking to Usopp, who is attempting to repair the ship. Franky explains that he took the ship to protect it from the Aqua Laguna, and that Water 7 was sinking.
Back on the streets, Lucci finishes off the Franky Family members. Now having Franky's location, CP9 heads for Franky's warehouse under the bridge.

Back at Dock Six of Water 7, Usopp continues to patch up Going Merry. Franky asks Usopp point-blank what his plans are once Merry is fixed. He'd like to eventually sail Merry back to East Blue. Franky quickly tells him that's not happening. He had examined Merry while having it lifted into Dock Six, and corroborated Kaku's diagnosis of a broken keel. Franky suggests dismantling Merry was pretty much the only sane course. Usopp told him not to, raising his slingshot against him. Franky said that if Usopp's plan were to go down with Merry, he'd gladly allow Usopp to go through with it. But a ship had one purpose: to carry people from one shore to another. By his judgment, Merry was not going to make it to the next shore. Therefore, it was no longer a ship. He grabbed a piece of Merry's hull and ripped it off. Usopp responded by firing Kaen Boshi at Franky, knocking him back.
Franky, determined to force him to listen to reason, grabs Usopp and throws him down into the work bay, telling him to see the damage for himself. Laying on the bottom of the water, Usopp sees the previous patches applied to the keel of the Going Merry, as well as the additional damage that both Franky and Kaku had warned him out. Still, he climbs out of the water, drags the piece of hull that Franky broke off Merry back into place, and patches it back together. Franky again tells Usopp there is no way Merry will survive another voyage, least of all with an amateur shipwright like him. Usopp tells Franky to shut up...then falls to his knee crying and confesses that he knew all along Merry was no longer seaworthy.
He relates an experience from Skypiea, something he thought originally was a dream. He heard what sounded like a wooden mallet hammering on Merry. Though no one should've been there, he could've sworn he saw someone hammering at the ship. The next morning, the Straw Hats found that the ship was inexplicably, though haphazardly, repaired. Not only that, but it had also been restored to its original plan, missing all its previous modifications, including those made for the flight to Skypiea. He recalls hearing a mysterious voice saying the ship would carry them for a little while longer, as if it were the ship itself speaking to him. When he heard the Galley-La assessment, he remembered those words, as if the ship itself were trying to reassure him.
Usopp then told Franky that he probably thinks he's crazy. But not only does Franky believe Usopp, he knows exactly what phenomenon Usopp was talking about. Usopp had found Merry's Klabautermann: a particular spirit manifested on ships that are cared for greatly by their crews. According to legend, these spirits assist sailors in their time of need. Although Franky had heard the legend many times before, this was the first time he had ever heard someone mention seeing one.
Franky asks Usopp why he fought Luffy over Merry and left the Straw Hat Pirates when he knew the ship was doomed. Usopp only manages to say it's not that simple before the doorbell rang. Mozu and Kiwi go to answer the door while Franky and Usopp continue to argue over how best to handle the situation; Franky insists he will take care of Merry in a more respectful manner, but Usopp is still not ready to let go even though it is hopeless. This brings out Usopp's feelings that Merry would be disposed of like useless garbage.
Suddenly, Mozu and Kiwi are knocked unconscious by the person at the door: Kalifa. She is joined by Kaku, Blueno, and Rob Lucci. The episode ends with Franky charging them, identifying them as Galley-La.

Franky, angry, charges in and attempts to attack Kalifa for injuring Mozu and Kiwi but Blueno blocks his attack using Tekkai. However, Franky manages to pick up Blueno and overpowering him while yelling at the CP9 agent. Blueno attempts to use Shigan on Franky but Rob Lucci stops him saying they need Franky alive after kicking Franky away. Usopp is surprised at Franky thinking what he did to get Lucci and the others mad (still thinking they're with Galley-La). Franky wants to know how CP9 found out his hidden base but Lucci says it's irrelevant and says that they are there now and are assigned an operation. He then reveals to Franky that they are spies working for the World Government and surprises Franky by revealing his real name as "Cutty Flam". Franky is impressed on their detective work but is worried and wants to know where Iceburg is. Lucci says that he is dead much to Franky's shock. Lucci continues saying that Tom entrusted the blueprints to Pluton to Iceburg who then entrusted to Franky and demands Franky to hand over the blueprints. Franky, enraged, fires his right hand at Lucci who effortlessly dodges it and ruthlessly knocks Franky backwards sending him crashing through the wall. Usopp is shocked at what just happened and the crash reveals a secret room. Lucci is surprised to see this and Kalifa informs them they are drafting tables. Lucci confirms that it may be where the Pluton blueprints are and orders the other CP9 agents to find them. Blueno spots nameplates that says "Cutty Flam", "Iceburg", and "Tom" and Lucci walks over to a picture. Franky, who is up on his feet again, tells Lucci not to touch it saying that picture is his memories and is where he grew up with Tom's Workers.
A long flashback starts with a younger Franky riding on one of his Battle Frankies to Water 7. Franky turns around spots a large Sea King chasing after him and fires cannonballs at it. However, it has no effect only angering the beast more. The Sea King dives into the water causing Franky to crash onto land over Iceburg. Iceburg yells at Franky but soon runs away after seeing the large Sea King who attempts to attack him. Iceburg yells at Franky again saying they should be working on ships and not some "toys" but Franky yells back saying they're not toys but his battleships the Battle Frankies. They continue arguing until Tom lifts up the ship and builds it together using sheer strength. Tom is excited at his work with Yokozuna agreeing and Iceburg and Franky are staring in shock. Tom and Yokozuna walk off with Iceburg and Franky giving chase. At Tom's Workers, the group are eating and Tom asks about Franky's latest Battle Franky model. Iceburg blasts Franky on how his latest ship almost got both of them killed but Franky yells back at him. Tom could only laugh at this while Kokoro walks in and tries to calm them down. Kokoro then says that another ship carrying lumber was attacked by pirates and that since the King of the Pirates was executed, the entire city was being taken over. She continues saying that due to that, people are losing hope and that Aqua Laguna is preventing them from getting lumber properly. She fears that Water 7 will eventually sink into the ocean due to the frequent Aqua Laguna hits. Franky remembers that Tom build a large pirate ship before and asks if he could build one. However, Tom laughs angering Franky and Tom says that there is no such thing as a blueprint for a pirate ship but the flag makes it. Later that night, Franky wonders what Tom is working on and Tom says that it's hope for their island and then tells Franky to go to bed.
At daytime, a large Judicial Ship pulls into Water 7 and the people want to know what they are here for. It turns out that they are here for Tom and the Marines start to bring him aboard the ship. Franky and Iceburg attempt to get to Tom but a couple of Marines stop them but Tom reassures them that he will be fine. Aboard the ship, the trial is being watched over by Jorge and one of the men says that Tom was responsible of building the Oro Jackson: Gold Roger's ship. He says that Tom has been sentenced to be executed in Enies Lobby due to his involvement with Gold Roger and Franky is horrified to hear this. Jorge says that building a ship is not a crime but says that he must make an exception for the King of the Pirates. Jorge then says that Tom is sentenced to death and orders the Marines to take him away. However, the Marines are unable to move Tom due to his size and strength and Tom starts to speak up about his new project. He says that it will be a train that will run on the surface of the water and says that he'll help lift up the spirits of the people by building a Sea Train. The people and even Jorge sound interested and Jorge tells the Marines to let Tom stay and asks Tom to tell him more. Tom says that the Sea Train is like a ship but pumps out steam and runs on the tracks. He says that it will transport people, goods, and even ships to other islands and won't be affected by the conditions of the seas. Two people complain saying that Aqua Laguna will destroy the tracks and the Sea Kings will cause trouble as well. However, Tom says that the tracks will be submerged under the water a bit so that it won't be affected by the waves and even plans on adding a special siren underwater so that the fish will be alerted when the Sea Train is coming. He says that it will even scare off the Sea Kings so that they won't bother the Sea Train. He plans on connecting the tracks to multiple places much to the excitement of the people and Tom says that he'll finish up the blueprints very soon but says that it'll take a master shipwright to build it. Jorge says that will the Sea Train will also run to Enies Lobby which Tom confirms this and says that the Sea Train will fill Water 7 back with hope. Jorge says how long it will take and Tom says that it will take ten years to build it. Jorge then tells Tom to build it and tells Tom that the next ten years will be considered as probation. The people are excited to hear the idea about the Sea Train but Franky still looks worried.
Back at Tom's Workers, Tom is glad to still be alive but Kokoro is a little worried that Tom was laughing but is glad to hear about the Sea Train. Iceburg comments saying that the Sea Train is a great idea but Franky suddenly gets up and teaches Yokozuna how to do the front crawl. Iceburg yells at Franky for leaving but Franky is still angry over how the World Government wants to execute Tom for all the work he has done. Franky leaves showing Yokozuna how to swim and Iceburg is still upset at him and even tells Tom that he should kick him out for how he is behaving. Tom says that two years ago, he found Franky on Scrap Heap Island firing cannonballs and Franky says that his parents ditched him. Tom says that his parents were most likely pirates that couldn't handle his behavior. Tom says that he has a good heart and says that he and Iceburg will become master shipwrights someday. Some scenes are shown with Tom showing the finished blueprints to Iceburg and Yokozuna cheers on. The three being to work on the raft while Franky watches from a distance. He constructs another Battle Franky but the others are more focused on building the Sea Train. Eventually, Franky starts to help out much to Tom's pleasure. Franky, Tom, Iceburg, and Yokozuna being constructing while facing several hindrances along the way (including being chased by Sea Kings and the railing breaking apart). Years later, the people are still sulking until one person says that the Sea Train has been completed. The people begin boarding the Sea Train with Kokoro being the conductor. The Sea Train successfully sets off much to the pleasure of the people, Tom, Yokozuna, Iceburg, and Franky. The Sea Train, Puffing Tom, officially makes its departure filling Water 7 with hope.

Following his defeat at the hands of Rob Lucci, Zoro is sent across Water 7 and splashes onto the water until he crashes on top of a building (due to the rising water from Aqua Laguna's slowly coming in). Zoro gets up and issues some payback after being angered by Lucci then runs off. Elsewhere, Luffy can be heard screaming and yells out "Not again!" presumably stuck in another wall. Back at Franky's base, Lucci is reviewing how ships used to be built at the remains of Tom's Workers. Usopp is surprised by this while Lucci picks up the picture saying how Franky holds countless memories from the past. Franky yells at Lucci to get out but Lucci says that not until he gets the blueprints for Pluton. Franky says there are no blueprints but Lucci, annoyed, knocks over a drafting table. Franky yells out but Lucci orders Kalifa to tie up Franky using her thorny rose and she does so. Franky kneels from the pain and Lucci tells Franky to calm down as he knows everything from Franky's past especially about a crime that happened eight years ago. Franky yells out to Lucci and even calls him a "freak" which the agitated CP9 agent kicks Franky back. Franky remembers an experience from the past and tells Lucci that Lucci doesn't know anything about Tom or Water 7.
A long flashback dates back to eight years ago with the people of Water 7 enjoying the Sea Train Puffing Tom that Tom has his crew built. Two people explain that the Judicial Ship will be arriving soon and are positive that they'll let Tom go. Other people are a little worried that other islands want more for their items but aren't going to give up. Elsewhere, Iceburg can be seen constructing and says that the people are happy about being able to cross the ocean but they complain saying it's not good what they have hoped. However, Tom laughs at this saying they're spirits are up and see how time will tell. Suddenly, a group of men walk up and one of them starts talking to him. However, the man gets blasted by a cannonball but introduces himself as agent Spandam of CP5. It turns out that the cannonball came from Franky who is celebrating his recent kill of a Sea King using his newest Battle Franky 35. Iceburg is annoyed at Franky's childish behavior and starts pounding at Franky's battleship. Franky tries to stop him but Iceburg knocks him down and abruptly tells Franky that the battleships are dangerous and that someone else could get a hold of one and use it to harm others. Tom (with Spandam still following) shows up and Iceburg wants Tom to back him up on Franky not building anymore ships. Spandam suddenly speaks up wanting to talk with Tom and Tom assumes that he wants to talk about the trial. However, Spandam doesn't know about any trial but only wants to talk about something.
Back at Tom's Workers, Kokoro notices Iceburg and Franky arrive but Tom isn't with them. Iceburg informs her that he is with an World Government agent named Spandam but this only confuses Kokoro saying how someone from the World Government isn't with the Judicial Ship. Elsewhere, Tom tells Spandam that he has no blueprints. Spandam doesn't believe this and says he has been researching the history of Water 7 for a long time and knows that only Tom could have the blueprints in his possession. Tom laughs and says that Spandam has the authority to investigate him. Spandam says he does and knows of Tom's dealings with Gold Roger and threatens to tell the World Government about that if he doesn't give the blueprints. Tom says that the World Government already knows about him helping the Pirate King and Spandam is surprised by this wanting to know why Tom isn't either locked up or executed yet. Tom simply tells him to investigate more and kicks Spandam out. At a bar, the bartender tells Spandam that the judge will be dropping the charges due to Tom building the Sea Train. Spandam is angry by this and a brief flashback occurs with Spandam getting orders from the Five Elders themselves to get the blueprints Pluton. Spandam leaves the bar still angry about Tom being let off but Spandam punches a nearby ladder and paint falls on him. Spandam nearly slips but lands on his feet impressing his CP5 followers. Spandam promises that the charge will stay and that Tom will die but Spandam slips on the paint and falls into the water. Meanwhile, Tom grabs the blueprints from a hidden safe.
Back at Tom's Workers, Tom tells Iceburg and Franky to come to him as he has something very important to show them. A little later, Iceburg and Franky are both shocked and Tom says that it will be a nightmare if Pluton is built and is more worried now that the World Government knows about it. Tom says that he cannot keep the blueprints anymore and Iceburg agrees to take them. Franky actually wants to build it but Iceburg punches him saying that it should never be built. Tom says that the world will be done for and he suddenly puts down a wanted poster of Nico Robin (most likely hinting that she is the only known archaeologist that is alive that can decipher Pluton's blueprints).
It's daytime and Franky is seen leaving Tom's Workers. However, Kokoro stops him and gives him a pair of pants saying he caused an uproar in town last time he went there without his pants on. Franky, annoyed, then leaves and Kokoro wakes up Iceburg and Tom saying they don't want to miss Tom's trial. The people soon start to gather around and the Marines are seen talking with Jorge about Tom's sentence. Jorge says that he as seen the Sea Train and is happy to report that he'll be lifting Tom's sentence. Franky notices everyone around and is glad to hear that Tom will most likely will be let go. Suddenly, the Judicial Ship is being under attacked and the people start to run away. Some people spot a fleet arriving and, to his horror, Franky spots his battleships, the Battle Frankies, attacking the Judicial Ship. Iceburg quickly tells Tom that Franky's battleships are attacking the harbor but Tom knows that it's the World Government's doing. The people continue to run away and Franky runs off to see who is doing this (as Jorge wants to know who is behind this as well). It turns out to be by CP5 who are doing this under Spandam's orders and Spandam plans to place the blame on Tom. The CP5 agents withdraw and head back to Scrap Heap Island and Iceburg and Tom start to head for them. The CP5 agents spot Tom and Iceburg coming and they leave. Suddenly, two more ships blast at Iceburg and Tom.
Franky arrives and sees that Tom and Iceburg are badly injured. Franky wants to know what happened but Iceburg attacks Franky. Iceburg tells Franky that Spandam used the Battle Frankies to attack the people at the harbor much to Franky's shock. Iceburg then says that they have the ability to create dangerous weapons even if they're not intended to hurt or kill. Iceburg says that the World Government did that to place the blame onto Tom so that they can force him to hand over the blueprints. Iceburg continues to yell at Franky and says that if Tom gets taken away and hangs for this, Iceburg will never forgive Franky for the rest of his life. Franky screams and cries in horror after hearing all that has happened.

In the main square of Water 7, Zoro is still seen running across the rooftops but finds himself to be lost. Somewhere else, Luffy can be seen trying to free himself after getting stuck between some walls yet again. Zoro spots the burning building and runs toward it but ends up getting blown down by the wind. Meanwhile, Kokoro can be seen watching the fire from afar.
Back to eight years ago, Iceburg is still yelling at Franky saying he will never forgive him. Suddenly, Tom speaks up telling Iceburg not to blame Franky as he didn't do this. Franky runs over to Tom and notices a harpoon stuck in him saying that it's one of his special harpoons that is difficult to pull out once it gets stuck in. Franky apologizes to Tom but Tom says not to as it's not a problem to him. Soon, the people of Water 7 spot Tom, Iceburg, and Franky but are shocked to see that they're the ones injured as they think that Tom is the reason for the attack. Spandam with his CP5 agents appear behind them and Spandam says it's the time where all of them come quietly.
In town, Tom, Iceburg, and Franky are all handcuffed while Spandam explains that they are the ones that attacked the Judicial Ship and he and his CP5 agents managed to stop it in time. Some people wondered why Tom would do that as the judge would've acquitted his last offensive for building the Oro Jackson for Gold Roger thanks to him building the Sea Train Puffing Tom. Spandam walks up to Jorge where the two shake hands with the latter thanking Spandam for stopping the attack. Spandam says he'll take over the investigation and thinks to himself saying he's close to getting the blueprints for Pluton. Kokoro and Yokozuna are worried for Tom and the others.
Jorge then speaks up thanking Tom for building the Sea Train stating that Water 7 will continue to build but asks why Tom would attack the Judicial Ship. Franky speaks up saying it wasn't Tom but Spandam. However, the people all start laughing thinking that someone from the World Government wouldn't do something like that. Spandam then speaks up saying that the raid ships were created by Franky himself. Franky says that ships that do such a horrible thing aren't his ships anymore. Angry at his comments, Tom breaks free of his handcuffs and punches Franky much to the shock of everyone. Tom tells Franky that when a ship is built, no matter what type, it's neither good nor evil. He continues saying even if the ships hurt someone or could even destroy the world, the one who created them should never deny making them and never place the blame on the ships. Everyone, including Jorge and Spandam, stare in shock at Tom's comments and Tom tells Iceburg and Franky that whatever happens, not to interfere. Tom then violently punches Spandam causing horror to everyone. Tom continues to attack Spandam but Spandam orders the Marines and CP5 to shoot at Tom. Tom kneels down from the pain with Franky worried for him.
Spandam is pleased that Tom has been shot while Franky wonders why Tom did that. Spandam then orders his CP5 agents to arrest Tom, Iceburg, and Franky saying they'll be going to Enies Lobby. The people are shocked saying they didn't know that Tom would be so dangerous and the other people continue to talk down Tom much to the anger of Franky. Tom calms Franky down and suddenly speaks up saying he would like to confess. Tom then says that the raid on the judicial ship was led by him but requests to be pardoned from that crime. Jorge says that even if that was possible, Tom will be charged again for building the ship for Gold Roger and will receive the maximum penalty (death). Tom agrees to this saying he was proud of building a ship for the King of the Pirates Gold Roger much to the shock and anger of the people. Franky wants to know why and Tom tells Franky it's for the best not knowing the World Government would go to extreme lengths just to get the blueprints. Tom says that Water 7 is alive now saying he was glad to help out the city. Tom says his dream has finally begun to run and passes out from the tranquilizer's effects. In his mind, Tom tells Iceburg and Franky to take care of the blueprints and thanks everyone else (Kokoro and Yokozuna) for everything.
Spandam is excited to see that the tranquilizers have taken effect and orders his group to capture Tom, Iceburg, and Franky. However, Jorge says that Tom alone will be taken to Enies Lobby much to the annoyance of Spandam. Spandam then orders for Iceburg and Franky to be let go while the Marines are preparing to take Tom away. Kokoro tearfully says that Tom can't be let go as he sacrificed himself to save Iceburg and Franky. She continues on saying that anyone that has been taken to Enies Lobby has never come back and Franky's rage suddenly explodes. Franky grabs a pistol from a Marine and smashes Spandam's face with it. The people are horrified by this and Iceburg, Kokoro, and Yokozuna are shocked by what Franky just did. Franky is then shot by a Marine and Iceburg tells Franky to run away. Franky manages to get away and, on board the Sea Train now, Spandam is angry that Franky got away. Soon, Spandam is notified that Franky is on the tracks and orders the Sea Train to keep going. Franky tells Yokozuna to stay away while he fires at Puffing Tom telling it to not take its creator away. With the blasts having no effect, attempts to stop the Sea Train himself and remembers how Tom let him stay with him. Franky says he wants to continue building ships but can't love ships that hurt people. However, he would want to be a great shipwright like Tom and Franky is soon run over by Puffing Tom. In his mind now, Franky says he will build his own dream ship that will proudly sail upon the waters.
Back to the present, Rob Lucci says he heard that Tom was a great shipwright but was an uncontrollable Fish-Man with superhuman strength and has asked the citizens if they knew Tom but has gotten blank replies. Franky doesn't want to talk to Lucci anymore (with Usopp trying to calm him down) and Lucci says that many people and Marines were injured just because of Franky. However, due to Franky being confirmed dead after the Sea Train accident, the charges were dropped but now Franky is alive, he will be taken to Enies Lobby. Blueno, with a Den Den Mushi, walks up to Franky while Lucci speaks saying that their superior wants to speak to him. As Blueno tells the "chief" to speak, the man says he has spilled coffee on himself. However, he soon gets serious but is surprised to hear from Franky again. The man is surprised to see that Franky is still alive but Franky doesn't recognize the voice. The man continues saying how for eight years, his scars have been hurting but Franky demands to know who is talking to him. The man turns out to be Spandam saying he is the same person who arrested Tom's Workers years ago.

At his base, Franky finally recognizes Spandam's voice and Spandam is eager to see Franky at Enies Lobby to teach him a lesson. Spandam then slashes at a nearby lamp with his sword but the candle ends up burning him and he hangs up the Den Den Mushi. Kaku then has Blueno tie up Franky and Rob Lucci leads the other CP9 agents out. However, before they can go any further, Usopp suddenly speaks up and demands the agents to let Franky go. Lucci simply turns to Usopp with a defying stare and Usopp quickly apologizes much to Franky's disappointment. Kaku then remembers Usopp from the Straw Hat Pirates. Outside the Galley-La Company, the shipwrights are seen trying to put out the fire. Inside, Paulie and Iceburg are seen tied up and unconscious and Chopper is seen grabbing a nearby sword.
At the Sea Train station, two men are discussing about the Sea Train's departure before Aqua Laguna hits. One of the men notices that the people boarding the Sea Train are secret agents for the World Government. They continue talking about how they might know the undercover agents and how they are rich. One of the men says that the agents will board the Sea Train soon and will know their true identities. Back at the Galley-La Company, the people are still trying to put out the fire to little success. Suddenly, Chopper rushes out of the building with both Iceburg and Paulie on his back and puts them down gently. Chopper then notices Nami injured and attempts to help her but passes out. The people then tend to the aid of Iceburg and Paulie and then agree to help Chopper since he save Iceburg and Paulie's lives.
Back at Franky's base, Kaku has just easily defeated Usopp much to Franky's disappointment and embarrassment. Kaku then hears that even though Usopp has left the Straw Hats, he is still living his life as a pirate. Kaku then states that Usopp also has to go to Enies Lobby and orders Kalifa to tie him up. Kaku then turns his attention to the Going Merry upset that Usopp hasn't disposed of it yet. Usopp angrily tells Kaku to stay away but Kaku knocks the Going Merry off of the chain and onto the water. Kaku then says that even though it was a temporary disguise, they are still respected as shipwrights and he opens the doors leading to outside. Usopp says that it's his ship and he can do whatever he wants to it but Kaku pulls down on the lever which causes the Going Merry to move closer into the sea. Usopp attempts to stop him but Kalifa ties him up with her thorny rose and the Going Merry crashes into the sea badly damaged now. Usopp tearfully screams out Merry's name.
Back at the Galley-La Company, the people continue to struggle to put out the fire with the building itself starting to fall into pieces. Suddenly, Iceburg starts to wake up much to the shock and excitement of the people. The people then notice Nami also starting to wake up but are confused on what to do with her. Iceburg is now seen standing and he asks the other people that he needs to speak with Nami alone. Iceburg and Nami are now seen sitting alone and the other people wonder what they could be talking about. However, they continue to focus on putting out the fire as the other foreman are still trapped inside. Iceburg then apologizes to Nami for falsely accusing her and the rest of the Straw Hats and promises to clear it up. Iceburg, however, wants to talk about Nico Robin and asks Nami that when they first came to Water 7 did Robin started acting strangely. Nami agrees saying Robin went into town and never came back and that the next morning, she was the prime suspect in Iceburg's attempted murder. She continues saying that as soon Sanji and Chopper saw her, Robin said it was goodbye and wouldn't return to the crew. Nami then says that she and the others broke into his mansion in hopes of finding out the truth and recalls Robin saying she did it to make her wish come true. Nami then wonders what wish will force Robin to give up her friends and Iceburg says that he may know the answer. Iceburg says it may have happened as soon Robin got separated from the rest of the crew and says there is a good reason she did what she did. Iceburg then tells Nami that he and Robin have the plans to revive an ancient weapon that has the means to destroy the world much to Nami's shock.
In a flashback, Iceburg, still held down, has just told Robin that the blueprints that the other CP9 agents just found are fake and says he will rather die than hand over the real blueprints. Iceburg says if Robin is still searching for the Poneglyphs, then he has to do everything to stop her. Robin says she is only studying the Poneglyphs to learn more of the history of the world and doesn't care about the ancient weapon. Iceburg yells at Robin to take responsibility briefly remembering telling Franky eight years ago that weapons are made to hurt people. Iceburg then says that if Robin is still doing this, then she is better off dying right there and now and mentions Ohara. Robin angrily responds to Iceburg saying he knows nothing of Ohara and continues saying he knows nothing how the World Government has warped her life. Iceburg wonders if Robin hates the World Government so much, then why is she helping them. Robin says it's to make her wish come true and lets go of Iceburg. Robin then tells Iceburg that as soon she came to Water 7, CP9 presented her with two conditions: The first being to pin his assassination on the Straw Hats and leave their crew and the second being to turn herself over to the World Government and follow their every word. Iceburg tells Robin that the World Government won't let her live and wonders why, for escaping them for over twenty years, help them now. Robin then says that the World Government gave CP9 permission to activate a Buster Call against the Straw Hats. Iceburg is confused on the term Buster Call and Robin explains it's an emergency action that summons five Vice Admirals and ten battleships to the same location. She says that no matter how strong you are, nobody is able to survive a Buster Call and says that Admiral Aokiji gave CP9 the right to make the call. She says that as soon she heard his name, she surrendered saying if she hadn't, she and the rest of the Straw Hats would have been annihilated. Robin says she cannot turn her back on the Straw Hats as they helped her out which is why she hasn't run away. Iceburg then wonders what Robin's wish is and Robins says excluding her, the rest of the Straw Hats will be able to leave safely. Iceburg says that as long she has that, she doesn't care what happens to the rest of the world and Robin confirms this. Iceburg then picks up the nearby pistol and prepares to shoot.
The flashback ends with Iceburg telling Nami he couldn't pull the trigger saying he couldn't criticize her. Nami suddenly falls to the ground and tells Iceburg that she is happy that Robin hasn't betrayed them. Nami is eager to tell the rest of the Straw Hats the news saying now that Robin needs saving, she and the rest of the crew will not give up. Nami attempts to roughly wake up Chopper much to the horror of the other people. Meanwhile, at the Train Station, Robin can be seen and an agent is eager to see Robin has finally turned herself in. Not to far away, Sanji can be seen and finally is able to locate Robin again.

At the Sea Train station, several marines and agents are gathering around and Robin is seen within the group as well. Corgi tells Robin that CP9 will be coming shortly and tells Robin to get onto the Sea Train. He orders two guards to take her onto the Sea Train. Close by and hidden, Sanji is seen and wonders what he should do. He notices that Robin could easily take down the guards but believes she is planning something. Suddenly, CP9 make their appearance with Rob Lucci leading the group and Blueno is carrying Franky and Usopp who the two keep yelling to let them go. Sanji is shocked to see that Usopp is captured as well. Usopp continues yelling out with Kaku punching his head to quiet him. Corgi compliments CP9's work but Lucci says it's not over until they reach Enies Lobby and tells everyone to board the Sea Train. Sanji wonders about the guys in the suit are but angrily comments about Usopp getting himself into trouble.
At the remains of Galley-La Company, the people have nearly put out the fire and Chopper is excited to hear from Nami that Robin doesn't hate them. The people are shocked to hear Chopper talking and even more shocked when he suddenly transforms into a "gorilla". Nami and Chopper agree to find the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates to let them know that Robin needs saving. Iceburg suddenly walks up telling Nami and Chopper to wait to tell them that the Sea Train is departing at eleven. He says that CP9 and Robin will be there and continues saying thanks to Aqua Laguna, all of the rest of the Sea Train departures will be stopped. Nami is horrified to hear that especially since they have only half an hour to get to the Sea Train but wonders since Iceburg is the mayor of Water 7, that he can stop the Sea Train. Iceburg tells Robin that the Sea Train is bound for Enies Lobby and is currently being run by the World Government so he has no power over it. Nami concludes that they must make it to the Sea Train and informs Chopper about Luffy and Zoro's locations. Paulie suddenly gets up and tells the people to help out Nami and Chopper. The people disagree still thinking the Straw Hats are responsible for Iceburg's attempted murder but Paulie tells them that they aren't the culprits and should just give up on Lucci and Kaku. Paulie agrees to take Nami to the station and the people ready to get the Yagara Bulls. Iceburg secretly talks with Paulie saying he doesn't want to hurt the people about the truth.
In town, Nami, Chopper, and some people are seen riding on Yagaras. Nami will go to the Sea Train Station while Chopper looks for the other Straw Hat Pirates. Chopper and the other citizens continue to call out for the others even for Usopp. Paulie helps Nami show the way to the station while Nami keeps track on time. Nami tells the Yagara to go faster determined to save Robin. Back at the Sea Train Station, Robin is seen on the Sea Train while Franky and Usopp are thrown into the back. Franky threatens the guards and the guards proceed to beat him up (including Usopp). Sanji looks over the Blue Station but is frustrated to hear that the Sea Train will be departing at an earlier time. Back on the train, Kalifa says that after all the years, their mission is complete. However, Lucci angrily tells her not to talk nonsense as they aren't at Enies Lobby yet.
Nami is still trying to reach the Sea Train in time while Iceburg wishes for Franky's safety. The other people are still trying to find the other Straw Hat Pirates with Chopper leading the search party. Sanji wonders how the others are dealing with the situation but decides to board the Sea Train without them. Luffy is then seen stuck between some walls yet again trying to free himself. Zoro is now stuck in a chimney and is having similar problems. Back on the Sea Train, CP9 is informed on the Sea Train's early departure and Lucci says he has no feelings about leaving Water 7 after many years. Sanji is seen walking down the stairs while, nearby, Nami hears the whistle Paulie tells her that the Sea Train may be departing earlier than usual. Paulie knows it's because of the storm and that the World Government can leave whenever they want. The Sea Train is finally ready to depart and Robin remembers how Luffy rescued her and allow her to join his crew. Sanji closes in onto the Sea Train while Nami has finally just arrived. Nami heads down the stairs but is too late. Nami tearfully calls out to Robin as the Sea Train leaves out of sight.

At the Blue Sea Train station, the two employees are talking about how "some guy" managed to get onto the Sea Train but remark saying he'll get captured by the government agents on-board. The two men then notice Paulie and Nami close by and decide to spy on them. However, they are quickly spotted by Paulie who says that the Sea Train left early. One of the men informs Paulie that the Sea Train had to leave early due to the near arrival of Aqua Laguna. Paulie then speaks to Nami saying how it's impossible to get another Sea Train that will head for Enies Lobby and thinks Nami is crying. However, Nami suddenly bursts out with anger wanting to go after them. Nami then asks for a strong ship from Paulie but Paulie says it's too dangerous. Suddenly, Paulie grabs everyone and a large wave engulfs the entire lower area of the train station. Paulie is shocked to see the damages it caused even when the actual storm hasn't hit yet and says that Aqua Laguna is different this year. Nami asks if the Sea Train that Robin is on is in any danger and Paulie says that the Sea Train is able to cut through the waves. Suddenly, another man calls out to Nami saying she has a note. Nami then looks up at the writing on the wall and knows it's Sanji's doing. Nami reads the letter and, after ignoring the love letter parts, she is informed that Sanji has gotten onto the Sea Train and Usopp and some arrogant thug with a ducktail are there. The man then gives Nami a Den Den Mushi and is informed by Sanji's letter that he will contact her once he gets ahold of another one himself. Paulie is impressed that Sanji followed Robin around and Nami decides to let everyone else know.
On board the Sea Train, Sanji can be seen in the back. Back in town, Nami informs Chopper what she has read and Chopper is relieved that Robin has some help. Nami says that they cannot do anything until they find Luffy and Zoro first. Nami, Chopper, and the Water 7 citizens decide to help out as well. On the Sea Train, Sanji wonders how to get into the train itself. Suddenly, a government agent appears remarking on the storm and notices Sanji. Sanji then attacks the government agent with a vicious kick and sends the government agent flying into the Sea Train. The other government agents pull out their guns wanting to know who Sanji is and Sanji prepares to go on the attack.
Sanji makes it inside but the government agents threaten to shoot him. One of the government agents wants to let Rob Lucci be informed of Sanji's presence but suddenly, a very large man that is standing over Sanji says that CP9 shouldn't be bother with such a "small matter". This man is revealed to be Jerry who says he is famous, undefeated champion known for his boxing skills in the South Blue. Sanji is unimpressed at the agent's claims but Jerry decides to take down Sanji with his punches. The other government agents try to stop Jerry but Jerry unleashes a barrage of punches that end up missing Sanji and hitting the other government agents. Jerry then taunts Sanji before going into a position, Sanji angrily tells Jerry that just shortened his range. Jerry then says that it's part of his plan and then attempts to hit Sanji with a drill kick but misses. Sanji then effortlessly takes out Jerry with Brochette and the other government agents are shocked on how Sanji easily took down Jerry. Meanwhile, Corgi is seen talking over to CP9 about the numerous of government agents in the other train cars. CP9 seems unimpressed and Corgi says that they don't need to worry with a possible raid. Sanji is then seen preparing to go down further.
Back in town, Nami, Chopper, and the citizens are seen still trying to look for Luffy and Zoro. Paulie then wonders if Iceburg has been informed about everything and one of the citizens says that two men went to tell them. At the remains of Galley-La Company, Iceburg is seen getting up and walking away much to the confusion of the two men. In town, Nami and Chopper and the others continue to call out to Luffy and Zoro. Meanwhile, the two Train Station employees are seen at a closed shop trying to look for food after being told by Nami earlier to do so. Time has passed and they have no luck in finding Luffy and Zoro. Nami is determined to find Luffy and Zoro in order to rescue Robin.
At a higher location, Paulie is seen walking up to a bunch of people wanting to know what's going on. Kokoro is seen looking over the city remarking how you can tell how strong the storm will be by looking at the evidence. Kokoro tells Chimney and Gonbe to take a look and what is seen next is the entire sea has dried up. Paulie and the others are horrified to see this and Paulie remarks on how strong the storm will be this time. Chimney suddenly tells Kokoro that she sees something and Nami eventually appears. Chimney tells Nami that she sees something but Nami is shocked to see that the sea has dried up. Suddenly, Nami spots something between two buildings and upon looking harder, it turns out to be Luffy who is still trying to free himself. Kokoro also notices Luffy and Nami charges down to the backstreets to get him. Kokoro yells at her saying it's too dangerous to go down there when the storm is about to hit but Nami ignores this and continues running toward Luffy.

Nami is continuing to head toward Luffy's direction while the other people are remarking how brave but stupid her actions are. Tony Tony Chopper spots something in the distance in a chimney thinking it's a sea anemone but it turns out to be Zoro. Overjoyed, Chopper heads toward Zoro at great speed. Meanwhile, Nami continues running toward the buildings that Luffy is trapped behind while remembering how Iceburg told her that Robin sacrificed herself and the entire world just to save her friends. Kokoro is beginning to worry as she and everyone else notice a large wave of Aqua Laguna is coming. Chopper makes it to Zoro while Nami finally makes it to Luffy having reach him as far as she can go. Nami angrily calls out to Luffy wanting to know why he is out there. Luffy says that the pigeon guy knocked him away and got stuck between some buildings. Nami explains to Luffy on why Robin did what she did and Luffy says he is glad. Luffy promises that he won't let Robin die. The waves continue to get closer as Chopper tries to pull Zoro out. Zoro then notices that Chopper has his Sandai Kitetsu as he knows it's cursed and asks Chopper to give it to his free hand. The giant waves begin to close in on the Straw Hats as Luffy prepares to free himself.
Luffy manages to break out from the buildings using his brute strength while Zoro uses Sanjuroku Pound Ho to free himself from the chimney. Luffy uses his powers to get himself and Nami out of harm's way while Chopper eats a Rumble Ball and quickly gets himself and Zoro out of the way. However, just as it looks like the Straw Hats are safe, the waves continue to come and engulfs them. Fortunately for them, Paulie saves them using his ropes and pulls them all to safety. The group then run away from the coming waves and make it to safety with the other people. The people then start saying how the waves are even stronger this time around and notice the waves going back for now. Zoro is trying to get Chopper off of his face while Luffy thanks Paulie for saving them. Nami is surprised about the storm and Paulie says that even he is surprised as Aqua Laguna has never hit that hard before. Kokoro tells them that they are lucky to be alive while Zoro finally manages to get Chopper off of his face. Luffy wonders what Zoro was doing when the wave hit, and Chopper says that he was stuck in a chimney. Luffy begins to laugh at Zoro but Nami angrily pulls his face saying he did something similar twice himself. Luffy then wants to know where Sanji (and Usopp) are and Nami says that she has a lot more to tell them.
At Enies Lobby, Spandam is seen eating with Funkfreed saying how Admiral Aokiji was generous enough to have him control many government agents and battleships. He also says how he can't wait until CP9 brings him Robin and Cutty Flam. On the Sea Train, Sanji has finished beating all of the government agents in a train car. Sanji excitingly hurries forward to save Robin. Back at Water 7, Zoro has just been informed by Nami about Robin's actions and Sanji's whereabouts. Zoro asks Luffy what they should do next. Luffy says that they must set out and rescue them right away. Zoro stands up knowing that's what Luffy was going to say, and the Straw Hats prepare to make their next move.

Luffy wants to depart right away to Enies Lobby even though the Aqua Laguna is hitting the island. He asks Paulie if there's a ship he could borrow to get them there, or better yet, a sea train. Paulie informs them that the sea train was built by a team headed by a legendary shipwright and there's nothing else like it in existence in the world and if they were to set out, they would immediately get killed so they would do better to wait until morning.
At that moment Nami remembers reading about Enies Lobby and the Gates of Justice - a set of large steel gates beyond which people only find despair. Enies Lobby is known as the Judicial Island and has a judicial court located on it. However, it functions as such in name only; if you're taken to Enies Lobby, you're already considered guilty. Beyond the Gates of Justice lie two locations, one is the Marine Headquarters and the other is Impel Down - an undersea prison reserved for the criminals who once ran amok in the world. Robin, who has a bounty on her head, would only suffer pain once she crossed those doors.
Paulie tells them that they shouldn't go there because they are pirates too and would get caught. Luffy declares he is going and he would steal a ship to get there. Paulie and Luffy are about to fight, when Kokoro stops them and asks Luffy to follow her if they didn't fear death.
Sanji gets to the railcar where Franky and Usopp are tied up and after defeating all the officers inside, Sanji and Franky get into an argument that Usopp unsuccessfully tries to stop. There are several Den Den Mushi there which Sanji plans to use to call Nami. But the argument is loud enough that Captain T Bone who is in the next car is alerted and draws his sword to check the commotion.
Kokoro leads Luffy, Zoro and Chopper to the unused sea train, Rocketman. It is a sea train which wasn't used because its speed couldn't be controlled. Iceburg is already at the train and has serviced it and filled it with coal enough to last the trip. After he is thanked by Luffy, Iceburg tells him that he can thank him later if he isn't killed by the train ride.
Nami comes there bringing with her the two conductors who are carting in meat and drinks, and both Zoro and Luffy dig in and thank her. While he is eating, the Franky Family members come in and beg Luffy to be let to ride with them to go and rescue Franky. While Nami opposes, Luffy just tells them to get in; however, they would ride on king bulls and need only hold on to the train as it went.
The gang get on and the train is ready to depart with Kokoro piloting the Rocketman as she tells Iceburg to rest up, and that Franky would be okay, as he got hit by a Sea Train and survived. Paulie also sneaks onboard the train as it is leaving while Luffy gets on top of the train and holds on. He yells that they are going to get everything back as the train departs.

Rocketman is seen going through an underground canal much to the surprise of the Straw Hats. Luffy ends up getting water in his nose much to the annoyance of Nami. Luffy feels as he is falling and Kokoro says they are almost at the exit. Suddenly, Rocketman comes charging out of Water 7 and into the sea. Zambai and the rest of the Franky Family follow behind with their King Bulls, Sodom and Gomorrah. Zambai thanks Luffy for allowing them to come and fires the connection cannons that link their ship with Rocketman. Zoro yells at them for almost hitting him. Luffy asks Kokoro if Rocketman can go any faster and Kokoro says it will once they reach the railway. Kokoro then spots the railway and attempts to get the Sea Train onto them but it keeps moving away much to her annoyance. Suddenly, Chimney and Gonbe are seen on the front much to the shock of Kokoro who thought they stayed with Iceburg. Kokoro asks Luffy to get them but soon, Rocketman gets on the railway and it's speed increases dramatically. Luffy, Chimney, and Gonbe are sent flying away but fortunately, they fly into one of the larger members of the Franky Family.
The two Sea Train employees are watching as Rocketman finally reaches the railway and speeds off. They comment on Kokoro's experience on handling the Sea Train. They think they should inform Iceburg on the current situation. Elsewhere, Iceburg can be seen looking worried. Iceburg remembers how Kokoro told him that Franky survived being run over by a Sea Train so he will be alright. Iceburg remembers awhile back on how Kokoro is seen drinking and is saddened thinking that Franky had died. Kokoro tells Iceburg that she know he can doing being the first apprentice of Tom. Iceburg then tells Kokoro that they will share a drink someday and says that he will watch over Tom's dreams. Years later, Iceburg is informed by Kalifa that someone named "Cutty Flam" is here to see him. Iceburg looks very shocked but tells Kalifa to turn him away. Later that night, Iceburg meets up with Franky in a different location. Iceburg is surprised to see Franky's new body but Franky tells him that the Sea Train mangled up his old body so he had to make himself another. However, Franky is angry that Iceburg is building ships for the World Government after what they did to Tom years ago. Iceburg angrily tells Franky about who made the weapons that caused the incident in the first place. Iceburg continues saying he has never forgiven Franky even after Tom forgave him. A little while later, Iceburg is seen giving the blueprints to Pluton to Franky and tells him not to call himself "Cutty Flam" anymore knowing the World Government will be targeting him. He then tells Franky to leave Water 7 but Franky is worried about the World Government going after Iceburg. Iceburg, who has broken in tears, says he is glad that Franky is alive. Franky then yells out to Iceburg saying he won't leave Water 7 and Iceburg yells back at him saying it's to protect the blueprints.
Back in the present and on the Sea Train that is heading for Enies Lobby, Franky can be seen climbing onto the top of it.  Franky wonders why he is thinking about Iceburg but is worried about Lucci telling him he's dead. In Rocketman, Luffy, Chimney, and Gonbe are brought inside after nearly dying. Zoro comments on the few extra people they got referring to Paulie, Peepley Lulu, and Tilestone. Paulie decided to come along saying the enemy that they are going after are the same ones that tried to kill Iceburg. Tilestone and Lulu agree to follow behind Paulie wanting to avenge Iceburg. Zambai speaks up saying that the enemy is also the one that kidnapped Franky. Lulu and Tilestone then tell Paulie to tell them who are the culprits on Iceburg's attempted assassination saying they won't be shocked on who they are. Paulie says that the culprits are Lucci, Kaku, Kalifa, and Blueno but, to his anger, Tilestone and Lulu are greatly surprised at this thinking the culprits were someone else. Luffy suddenly speaks up saying that even though they got into a fight with Galley-La Company and the Franky Family earlier, they all share a common enemy. Luffy says that the strongest of the group and Lucci and that he is going to be the one that fights him. Zoro says that it's a battle against those four. Nami notices the giant waves of Aqua Laguna coming but Luffy ignores this and offers to form an alliance. Paulie and Zambai agree to an alliance and Luffy says that for now, they fight as one and together, they will achieve their goal. Everyone cheers as Rocketman approaches a large wave.

A large wave of Aqua Laguna is about to hit Rocketman and Kokoro asks how everyone else is going to take care of it. Zambai orders the Franky Family to grab cannons and fire at the large wave as it's just water. Suddenly, Nami gets a call from her Baby Den Den Mushi knowing it's Sanji calling. On the Sea Train Puffing Tom, some Marines are looking over their fallen comrades. T Bone can be seen now and asks a Marine how he got an injury on his arm. The Marine says he got bit by a bug earlier and T Bone wraps up the wound using a piece from his cape. T Bone then says that peace and kindness will reign while the Marines are freaked out by his face. Another Marine barges in and tells T Bone that the officials of cars 6 and 7 have been taken out and that the two criminals have escaped. T Bone is shocked to hear this and tells the Marine to help the injured spread the news to the other cars.
On top of Puffing Tom, Sanji can be seen talking to Nami. Sanji tells Nami that he has bad news that things have gotten complicated. Nami wants to know what he means but overhears something in the background (as Usopp and Franky are messing around) and Sanji says it's nothing. Back in the Rocketman, Paulie, Peepley Lulu, Tilestone, and the Franky Family are seen firing cannons at the large wave which doesn't have any effect. Zambai suddenly speaks up saying that the Franky Family Special Cannon will do the job. However, even the large cannon fails to put a dent into the Aqua Laguna but still orders the cannons to fire. Kokoro then speaks up saying that the railway will rise up but not enough to go over the wave. Chopper is worried that they are going to die and Kokoro says it's possible. Nami continues to talk with Sanji knowing Robin hasn't been saved yet. Nami is ready to tell Sanji why Robin did what she did before silencing Chopper, Chimney, and Gonbe. The others are worried about dying but still continue to fire cannons. Zoro then speaks to Luffy and Luffy knows what Zoro is thinking ready to fight the wave. Luffy and Zoro step outside and they both face the wave preparing to fight. Luffy then asks Zoro what's "108 times 2" and Zoro replies "216". Luffy thinks it's too long and he wants to round it to another number. Zoro suggests "300" and Luffy agrees. Luffy and Zoro prepare to launch an attack onto Aqua Laguna.
Luffy and Zoro launch a very powerful team attack (Gomu Gomu no Sanbyaku Pound Cannon) and the attack tears a hole straight through the large wave. Rocketman manages to speed through the hole on the railway and the entire group successfully make it past Aqua Laguna. Everyone is impressed by Luffy and Zoro's feat of strength. Luffy makes it inside with Zoro accidentally landing on him. Nami suddenly calls Luffy over saying Sanji wants to talk. Luffy asks if Sanji has saved Robin yet and Sanji says he is still working on doing that. Sanji then tells Luffy that he was informed by Nami on why Robin surrendered and Luffy tells Sanji to "give them hell". Zoro speaks up saying that Sanji will die and tells Sanji to wait until everyone else has caught up but Luffy suddenly stops Zoro saying what would he do in Sanji's cause. Zoro looks away silently (knowing he will do the same) and Luffy tells Sanji to go save Robin. Sanji is surprised that Zoro is worried about him but Zoro angrily tells Sanji that he hope he gets killed. Sanji says he will fight to free Robin and crushes the phone. Franky is upset saying he wanted to speak with Luffy but Sanji just tells him to "deal with it". Nami wishes for Sanji's safety while Luffy wants Rocketman to go even faster despite Kokoro saying Rocketman is already at top speed.
Back on the Puffing Tom, Usopp is talking about how much things have changed since he left the crew. Sanji is upset that while they were fighting among themselves, Robin surrendered to the World Government so that the crew will be safe, including Usopp (even though he left the crew at that time). Franky is crying to hear such a sad story much to Sanji's disdain. Franky thought Robin was evil but now knows that deep down, she is kind. Sanji says he has to save Robin and Franky agrees to help him out. Franky tells Usopp to help out as well but Usopp says he isn't coming. Usopp says that, even though he feels bad for Robin, he isn't a part of the Straw Hat Pirates anymore and shouldn't get involved in saving her. Usopp then walks off with Franky yelling at him to talk it over. Sanji tells Franky to leave him much to Franky's annoyance. In the train cars, T Bone and the Marines are trying to look for the missing criminals. One Marine asks Wanze to help out but the cook angrily tells him to leave while Nero is also informed on the escape. One Marine notices the window is open and looks up to find Sanji and Franky up there. Suddenly, the Marine is shot into the water and Sanji and Franky turn to the shooter wanting to know who he is. The man says he has come to help out and introduces himself as Sogeking (who is really just Usopp in disguise).

Sogeking introduces himself to Sanji and Franky and his theme song plays. Sogeking continues singing his theme song but Sanji and Franky aren't fooled by Usopp's disguise. Franky wonders why Usopp is dressed up like that and Sanji says that Usopp has too much pride to show his face to the rest of the crew but still wants to help save Robin. Franky tells Sogeking to come over and Sogeking does. Sanji then begins a meeting for a plan to save Robin. Sanji says that they must find out which train car Robin is in while Sogeking asks if they want to know where he's from. Sanji asks Franky if he's strong and Franky says of course even stating he's been stronger lately. Sanji says that the objective is to save Robin and everyone agrees. Sanji then says he has a plan and tells it to Franky and Sogeking.
On board Rocketman, Tilestone, Peepley Lulu, and Zambai all witness Nami changing her clothes in front of them. Paulie angrily tells Nami to cover herself better and tells Mozu and Kiwi to do the same. However, they tell Paulie that he is too shy and Paulie seethes in anger. Kokoro offers to change as well but Tilestone, Lulu, and Zambai quickly reject the offer. Luffy is seen trying to stuff meat into his new black shorts but Nami tells him not to. Kokoro believes that they can pull it off and Luffy says he has a reason to beat them now. Zoro notices that Nami has a new weapon and Nami says that it's the Perfect Climate Tact that Usopp modified before he left. Nami and Luffy sigh in disappointment from Usopp's last work and Zoro angrily tells them not to get depressed.
Back on the Puffing Tom, Sanji, with Franky and Sogeking, prepares to put his plan into motion and Corgi informs Rob Lucci that there is an intruder on board. Lucci says it's an embarrassment that they allowed someone to sneak on-board but that person cannot get off once the train has started moving. Lucci tells Corgi that the intruder and the missing prisoners are still somewhere on the train and they must look for him. In train car 6, T Bone and the other Marines are still trying to look for Sanji, Franky, and Sogeking. Suddenly, a knock is heard on the door and Sanji, Franky, and Sogeking all say "Good evening" before closing the door again. The Marines hurry to open the door while Sogeking tries to hammer nails into it to slow them down. T Bone suddenly speaks up saying he will handle the door. T Bone uses his technique Chokkaku Senko: Bone Soir to slice up at the door.
The door flies off from the attack but Sanji, Franky, and Sogeking already have escaped. T Bone suspects they head up the roof and climbs up to see that they are already on top of train car 5. T Bone knows what they are about to do and tells the Marines to get onto the other side quickly. However, it is too late as the door is locked and the train cars are detached. Sanji is glad that the plan work and Sogeking wonders if Luffy and the others will run into the detached train car. Sanji says that they will come up with something and, before heading into the next train car, opens it and a government agent comes flying out. Sanji, along with Franky and Sogeking, enter inside and some World Government agents confront them. Sanji takes out some of them with Frit Assorti while Sogeking fires his Gunpowder Star at some of them and Franky uses Strong Right on more of them. A couple of agents fire at Franky but it doesn't go through him. Franky then throws a long chair at the agents knocking them out. Sanji and Sogeking are surprised that the gun shots didn't go through him and wonder what he is. Franky tells them that he is a cyborg and Sanji is surprised to hear they existed. Sogeking, excited, pokes Franky in the back with a needle and Franky yells in pain waiting to know why Sogeking did that. Sogeking is surprised to see that gun shots don't affect him but needles hurt. Franky says that his back isn't the same as his front due to him doing the operation on himself. Franky then shows his fridge which impresses Sanji and Sogeking. Sanji says that they must continue on.
Sanji, Franky, and Sogeking reach train car 4 and they are greeted by an erratic cook named Wanze. Wanze speeds in and offers to make them some ramen by eating flour then spreading out the noodles from his nostrils. Wanze offers it to them but Sanji, Franky, and Sogeking quickly reject. Sanji says that they must continue on but Wanze gets in his way saying they must go through him first. Wanze says that Robin is an important prisoner and, to rescue her, must defeat his Ramen Kenpo. Sogeking questions Ramen Kenpo but Wanze mocks him angering Sogeking. Sanji tells him to calm down and Franky tries firing at Wanze. However, his shots missed and Franky is shocked to see that Wanze easily dodged the shots and is even smiling about it. Wanze says he thought his heart was going to leap out of his chest and this annoys Franky. Franky and Sogeking both want to fight Wanze but Sanji calms them down and tells Wanze that if he as a real chef, he would conduct himself with more dignity. Wanze mearly looks the other way and an annoyed Sanji attempts to kick him. Sogeking comments how Wanze dodged the kick and even is smiling about it. Wanze says he thought he was going to die and both Franky and Sogeking tell Wanze to stop making that face. Having enough, Sanji tells Franky and Sogeking to go on ahead while he deals with Wanze.

Kalifa and the rest of CP9 has just been informed by a government agent that the rear two cars have been detached. Kalifa asks how could they let that happen but the agent tries to defend himself saying even T Bone has been beaten. Kalifa wants a status report and the government agent says that there are still five cars left but the Marines and World Government agents have been taken out in the fifth car. He says that Wanze is guarding the fourth car, Nero in the third car, Nico Robin in the first car, and everyone else in the second car. Rob Lucci suddenly speaks up saying their enemy shouldn't be taken likely but Lucci says that the only problem now is that Franky is running loose. Lucci says that Robin and Franky will be delivered securely to Enies Lobby and he doesn't care how many men they will lose. Kalifa asks if the intruders were identified and the agent says that two of them were the prisoners but one of them is now wearing a strange mask. He also says that there is a blonde guy in a suit that he has never seen before. Kaku concludes that the intruder is a member of the Straw Hat Pirates knowing he is trying to rescue Robin and that Franky is helping them out. Blueno offers to watch over Robin but Lucci says it isn't necessary and that they should focus on recapturing Franky. Lucci then says that rescuing Robin will not happen.
In train car 4, Sanji tells Sogeking and Franky to go on as rescuing Robin is the top priority. However, Wanze isn't about to let them go so easily and eats a bunch of flour. Sogeking fears more nose noodles but Wanze fires a bunch of sharp noodles (Ramen Beam) toward Sogeking and Franky who both barely dodge. Sanji attempts to attack Wanze but the noodle cook dodges it. Sogeking and Franky then move on to the next train car but Wanze says that Nero will be waiting for them. Sanji attempts to attack Wanze with Flanchet Shoot but Wanze continues dodging his attacks. Meanwhile, Sogeking's theme plays again and he is standing on top of Franky trying to figure out how to get to Robin's car quickly. Franky, annoyed, tells Sogeking to go and calls him a "Stupid Slimy Squid King." Sogeking yells back at him but gets an idea from hearing "slimy squid" and tells Franky he has a plan. Sanji and Wanze continue their fight but Sanji grows annoyed by Wanze dodging all of his attacks. Wanze then activates his Men-Kiri Hono Hocho and attempts to attack Sanji with a fiery kick but Sanji blocks it with some kicks. Wanze suddenly screams in pain after being hit twelve times by Sanji. Wanze wonders if Sanji is strong but says that Sanji's swirly eyebrows made him dizzy. Wanze then eats a bunch of more flour and uses Ramen Kenpo Ogi: Men's Formal Suit to make a fighting suit out of ramen. Sanji is angry at Wanze for using food to fight but Wanze says he is a lot stronger now. Sanji promises to make Wanze eat all those noodles.
On top of the Puffing Tom, Franky is seen being confronted by Nero. Franky asks why Nero is waiting on the roof as he would've come inside instead. However, Nero knew that Franky would just skipped past the car. Franky knows that Nero must keep his guard up and suddenly tells Nero to look the other way. Nero does so and Franky attacks him from behind with a punch. Nero says that was a dirty trick and Franky says he isn't the king of Water 7's Underworld for nothing. On the Rocketman, Luffy once again gets onto the top of it. Nami wonders where Luffy went and Zoro is clueless as well. Nami, Zoro, and Chopper wonder what happened to him while Luffy continues going further onto the Sea Train. Luffy eats a piece a meat and says that they're coming for Robin (as Usopp too).
Sanji and Wanze prepare to begin their fight and Wanze attacks with Tonkotsu Spank. Sanji dodges and says it's just the same weak punch but bigger. Wanze attacks again but when Sanji attempts to kick the attack, his foot gets stuck in the noodles. Wanze begins to slam Sanji around in the room and taunts Sanji saying how his noodles are effective. Wanze becomes dazed from staring at Sanji's eyebrows but quickly snaps out of it and viciously slams Sanji to the ground. Wanze then crushes Sanji with Men Soul Press and continues slamming across the room. Sanji is free of the noodles but Wanze continues taunting him and closes in. Wanze attempts to attack Sanji with Ramen Gyoza Set - Clapping but Sanji moves out of the way. Sanji knows the only part to attack Wanze and aims for Wanze's head with Escalope but Wanze fires his Ramen Beam to knock Sanji back. Wanze then prepares to finish Sanji off using Fukumen Spank but Sanji pick up a couple of kitchen knives to chop away at the attack. Wanze is angry that Sanji has chopped up his noodles. Sanji says that a chef must fight without using their hands or knives but Sanji says that since he and Wanze are in a kitchen and that Wanze is using food to fight, the rules change. Wanze attempts to attack Sanji with Senmen Muchi but Sanji dodges it and Wanze yells at him. Sanji apologizes but tells Wanze he is going to show how a real chef handles his kitchen knives.
Back on the roof of the Puffing Tom, Franky and Nero continue their battle. Nero gets in close using Soru but as Franky attempts to attack him with his Strong Hammer, Nero dodges it using Kami-e. Nero uses Rokushiki/Rankyaku on Franky but it seems to have not affected him much surprising Nero. Franky strikes back using Fresh Fire but Nero dodges it by jumping toward the sea but uses Geppo to get back on the Sea Train. Franky wonders how Nero jumped in the air like that and Nero is wondering how the Rankyaku didn't affect Franky. Franky and Nero then charge in at another and both want to know what the other is. Meanwhile, Sogeking is seen on the other side of the Sea Train wearing octoshoes. Sogeking then taps on Robin's window and Robin, seeing Usopp through the disguise, is surprised to see him and wants to know why he is there. Sogeking smiles as his theme plays off.

In train car 4 of the Puffing Tom, Sanji taunts Wanze and Wanze comments how Sanji sliced up his ramen suit. Wanze comments how he is CP7's "ace" and says he will do everything to ensure Robin isn't saved. Wanze then attacks with Menkui Knocker but Sanji easily cuts up the attack using the kitchen knives. Sanji gets in close and manages to cut up the ramen suit upsetting Wanze. Sanji comments on how even though Wanze is a cook that makes ramen from his nose, he knows how to take care of his kitchen knives.
On the rooftop, Nero is seen trying to attack Franky but he puts up his Star Shield to block the attack. Nero is wondering what is with Franky's body knowing a real human cannot do that. Nero notices that Franky is breathing in air again and thinks it's fire but it turns out to be a bunch of nails (Master Nail). Nero uses Geppo to dodge the attack and says that even though he hasn't mastered the Shigan, he still has another plan. Nero then takes out two pistols but Franky attempts to run away and Nero follows. However, Franky quickly turns around and fires Weapons Left but Nero dodges it saying he saw the attack coming. Nero then fires his pistols at Franky's back and it causes harm to him. Nero smirks and attempts to attack Franky from behind with Rankyaku but Franky barely dodges it. Nero then tells Franky he knows that his back is his weakness but Franky says he has something to block his weakness. Franky lays flat on the ground using Franky Invincible but Nero comments how ridiculous the move is.
In train car 1, Sogeking enters and Robin wants to know why he is there. Sogeking sits across from her and introduces himself to her. Sogeking then tells Robin that he is here to save her and Sanji and Franky are helping out. Sogeking also tells Robin that Luffy and the others are following behind shortly on another Sea Train with a small army. Sogeking, knowing the agents in the train car behind them are strong, attempts to flee with Robin without having to confront them. Sogeking then asks Robin to come with him but Robin refuses. Sogeking gets up and says that the situation changed saying they know what is really happening after being informed by Iceburg, he is also encircled in a metaphoric blue flame,  representing the dying merry. However, it dies down very quickly. Robin still says she isn't going with him but Sogeking (now talking in his Usopp voice) says that the Straw Hats wouldn't let this go. Sogeking tells Robin that know they know what really happened, they will follow her to the depths of Hell if they have to, making the blue flame larger and more vehement. Robin angrily tells Sogeking that even if she could be saved that she wouldn't go with them, making the fire disappear. Suddenly, Corgi enters the room telling Robin to calm down. Sogeking has secretly hidden himself within Robin's coat and Robin tells Corgi she is fine (while Sogeking comically makes rabbit ears and other goofy hand gestures). Corgi is shocked to see Robin's reaction and comical goofy-ness, but think he's imaging things. Back on the roof, Nero yells at Franky to get up and fight fairly. Franky says he isn't quitting and tells Nero it's bad luck for him. Franky tells Nero that he is "super" this week and it's not a good time to make him angry. Franky then asks Nero if he has ever heard of a creature known as a Centaur and Nero says he has. Franky then modifies his body and converts to the Centaur Mode. Nero yells at Franky saying it's backwards but Franky says he will beat him up.
In Rocketman, Luffy asks where is "Bashing Tom" but Nami corrects him saying it's Puffing Tom. Nami tells Luffy to come inside as he is getting wet but Luffy wants to remain up there. Meanwhile, the others are messing around while Zoro yells at them to stop screwing around. Tilestone and Zambai tell Zoro that they are bored and Zoro tells them to do something else. Paulie says he tried to tell them the same thing earlier but they wouldn't listen to him. Suddenly, Luffy speaks up saying that there is another train in front of them. Everyone prepares for a fight and Kokoro comments saying it's a bit early. In the abandoned train cars, the Marines and World Government agents are hoping help will come. They are surprised to see another Sea Train and Zambai spots the discarded train car. Paulie tells Kokoro to stop the train but Kokoro says she cannot stop Rocketman. Luffy decides to take a look and uses Gomu Gomu no Rocket to launch himself onto the train car. The Marine and World Government agents identify Luffy and being shooting at him. However, the bullets don't work on his rubbery body and the bullets get deflected back at them. Luffy asks a Marine if he has seen Sanji but the Marine doesn't know who that is. Luffy informs everyone else that Robin and the others aren't in the train car. Luffy then tells Zoro to cut up the train car and Zoro agrees to. Zoro then slices up the train car (Two Sword Style Iai: Rashomon), greatly surprising everyone. Luffy and the others then move on leaving the other Marines and government agents stranded. However, a Marine says that there is still one guy that can stop them. Zoro then notices something up ahead and it turns out to be a Sea King that is cut in half. Everyone is shocked to see this and Luffy sees the opportunity for a meal. Zoro then puts on a headband saying there is someone out there strong enough to cut up a Sea King.

On the Sea Train tracks, T Bone is seen running and is ashamed of himself for falling for a trap. T Bone is trying to catch up to the Puffing Tom not wanting to let down his men. Not too far behind, everyone is still shocked to see the sliced Sea King and Zoro readies himself for a fight. T Bone eventually stops running after seeing another Sea Train. Zambai gets a closer look on the person and he reveals him to be "Ship-Slasher" T Bone. Luffy wonders who that is and Zambai explains that T Bone is from the Navy and that he can slash through any ship. Zambai tells the Franky Family to prepare themselves for a fight but Luffy tells everyone that Zoro can handle it. Zoro yells at T Bone to get out of the way but T Bone doesn't listen knowing that his men have been taken out. T Bone then knows the group is trying to rescue Nico Robin and recognizes Zoro. T Bone yells out that he is a proud captain of the Navy and challenges Zoro to a fight. T Bone charges in and prepares to use his attack Chokkaku Hicho: Bone Odori and Zoro is ready to counterattack and charges forward. T Bone fires his attack at Zoro but Zoro easily blocks the attack and takes down T Bone. T Bone goes flying into the water and Zoro hops back on the Rocketman. The Franky Family cheer for Zoro's victory and Zoro compliments on T Bone's strength. The Marines are trying to sail themselves to T Bone and T Bone is seen floating in the water. T Bone then compliments Zoro's strength. Zoro is then seen sleeping and Chopper wonders if Sanji had anything to do with the detached train cars. Nami confirms this and even says it was a great idea. Luffy is eager to catch up and is ready for a fight saying he is going to beat up the "pidgeon guy."
On the Puffing Tom in train car 1, Corgi is seen growing suspicious of Robin. Sogeking (who is still hiding in Robin's coat) is relieved that Corgi walked away and that their plan worked. Corgi, however, says it's not his imagination and can smell out pirates. Corgi suddenly starts walking back toward Robin much to Sogeking's dismay. In train car 4, Wanze can be heard screaming loudly thinking Sanji has cut him with the kitchen knives. Wanze is relieved that he isn't cut and Sanji says that kitchen knives aren't for cutting people and shouldn't be used as swords. Sanji then puts the knives away and, as he turns around, Wanze attempts to hit him by throwing knives at him (Hocho Nage). Sanji dodges and angrily kicks Wanze in the face. Wanze worries his eyes are being pushed in but still wants to fight. Wanze taunts Sanji saying why would he save such a "terrible women" and that she has everyone fooled. Sanji kicks Wanze in the face multiple times treating to rearrange his face. Wanze asks Sanji not to do so but taunts him saying that Robin is better off dead. Sanji furiously kicks Wanze over and over in the face (Parage Shot) and sends Wanze flying backwards. Wanze gets up and, after looking at a frying pan, his face completely got rearranged. Wanze yells at Sanji for messing up his face but Sanji then tells Wanze he is guilty of three sins: Wanze called himself a "chef" in front of him, he was disrespectful toward his food, and that he insulted his friend. Sanji promises to make Wanze pay.
On the rooftop, Franky is seen being thrashed around by Nero. Nero taunts Franky on his Centaur Mode and starts shooting at him. Franky dodges the shots but nearly falls off the Sea Train. Franky manages to hang on but Nero threatens to knock him off. As Nero attempts to kick Franky off of the Sea Train, Franky moves out of the way and pins him down with his four legs. Franky taunts Nero saying all he needed was to get in close. Meanwhile, Wanze continues yelling at Sanji for messing up his face. Sanji then tells Wanze to move out of the wave but Wanze reveals a last resort: Ramen Kenpo Ura Hiden: Men-Kiri Doku Bocho. Wanze tells Sanji that one touch will kill him and that he should give up on saving Robin. Wanze charges at Sanji preparing to strike him with the poisonous blade but Sanji takes down Wanze with a very powerful Santen Decoupage. The move returns Wanze's face to normal but sends him flying through two train cars into the one that CP9 is in. CP9 then spot Sanji not to far away. Meanwhile, Franky takes down Nero using his Ultimate Hammer and sends him crashing down into the train. Sanji and Franky both remark on how each were fighting. Sanji then turns his attention to CP9 saying they are the ones how kidnapped Robin and Rob Lucci stares at Sanji.

Sanji and Franky have just defeated their opponents and enter train car 2 where the CP9 agents are. Kalifa comments on how loud it has gotten and Blueno and Kaku say how they underestimated the intruders. Franky warns Sanji that CP9 uses some "weird moves" and Rob Lucci walks toward Nero kicking an unconscious Wanze away. Lucci wants to know who the man is and Kaku says that according to Corgi, he's the newest member of CP9: Nero. However, Kaku says that Nero only knows four of the six powers and Nero gets up saying how he is going to take down Franky. Lucci speaks up and Nero recognizes him. Nero apologizes for not introducing himself but decides to kill Franky. Lucci says that Franky must be kept alive and that Nero has let his emotions get the better of him. Lucci says that he'll give Nero three seconds to try and escape but Nero nervously says he doesn't know what's happening.
Lucci reaches "3" and Nero attempts to run away using Soru but Lucci quickly catches up to Nero and stabs him in the back using Shigan. Lucci says that in order to be a member of CP9, one must master all of the six powers and sends Nero crashing out the window and into the water. Lucci then tells Kalifa in their report, Nero was too weak to be a member. Sanji is surprised at what just happened and Franky says that he can't tell what side is evil. In train car 1, Corgi continues sniffing at Robin. Robin comments on how Corgi has bad matters but Corgi says he's just doing his job. Corgi notices a pair of legs and tells the pirate to come out. Sogeking comes out and pulls his weapon at Corgi's face. Sogeking introduces himself and Corgi says that he won't get away with that. Corgi attempts to run away calling for Lucci's help but gets shot down by Sogeking. Lucci knows that Sanji is there to save Robin but says it's a mistake. Lucci then says that some people were born better off dead and also says that a sleeping devil exists. Lucci asks Sanji that even if that person is an eight-year-old child, that person should be put to death. Sanji tells Lucci to get to the point and Lucci says that was the story of Robin he just told. Lucci says that the only good Robin can do is to die, as her life is an entire curse. Lucci says that she should've died twenty years ago but her dying soon is good enough. Sanji angrily kicks at Lucci who easily blocks it and Sanji doesn't want to hear anymore. Lucci adds that the World Government will likely spend several years interrogating and tormenting Robin to extract and erase all her secrets.  Sanji says that he will not let that happen but, suddenly, Robin with Sogeking enter into train car 2. Sanji is excited to see Robin again and says he'll beat up CP9 and they can escape together. However, Robin uses her powers to send Sogeking flying and Sanji asks why she did that. Robin stares on with a blank expression after saying to Sanji that her words mean nothing to him.
Sanji, Franky, and Sogeking are shocked at Robin's reaction and Lucci starts laughing evilly. Sogeking suddenly tells Franky to detach the train cars telling Franky and Sanji to run. Sogeking tosses down a smoke bomb that actually stuns CP9. Taking advantage of the distraction, Sogeking grabs Robin and runs toward the previous train car. Sanji and Franky compliment on Sogeking's plan and Sogeking makes it onto the train car with Robin. On board the Rocketman, Luffy can be heard saying to "turn back." Everyone inside is confused on why Luffy wants to turn back and wants him to explain himself. Luffy said he wasn't talking about them and was talking to the large frog that hop on the train tracks. Kokoro recognizes Yokozuna and wonders why he is out there. Luffy continues telling Yokozuna to move out of the way but Yokozuna stands his ground and prepares to knock away Rocketman.
Back on the Puffing Tom, Sogeking happily says how they got Robin back. However, Franky doesn't like to run away and Sanji says how the smokescreen was so stupid, it caught CP9 by surprise. Sogeking says that the plan to not fight CP9 worked but Sanji and Franky say it was too easy. Suddenly, the train car is caught by Kalifa's thorny whip and Blueno pulls them in. Lucci reminds Blueno not to kill any of the Straw Hat Pirates as it was in the agreement. Sanji tells Sogeking to protect Robin and Sanji delivers a swift kick to Blueno. However, Blueno uses Tekkai to block it. Sanji then spins on the ground and delivers a powerful kick (Concasse) that stuns Blueno. Kaku comments on how strong the kick was and warns Blueno that even though Sanji doesn't have a bounty, he is one of the Straw Hat Pirates' main fighters. Suddenly, Robin knocks out Sogeking using Ocho Fleur Clutch telling him to leave her alone. Sanji looks away and Kaku, taking advantage of the distraction, fiercely kicks Sanji away. Franky, annoyed but touched at Sanji's actions, uses his strength to push away the train cars leaving himself with CP9. Kaku comments on how that was uncalled for and Lucci asks why Franky would help the Straw Hats out. Franky says he couldn't take it anymore saying that Sanji and Sogeking wouldn't leave without Robin. Franky yells out to Sanji and Sogeking that he has a plan but tells them to find a way to get back to Luffy and the others. Robin says she is not trying to run away but Sanji doesn't understand why she would continue to listen to CP9. Sanji says he knows why she did what she did and, even if it's a Buster Call, they will fight. Suddenly, Blueno appears behind Sanji using his Doa Doa no Mi powers and tells Sanji that if there is a Buster Call, they will be obliterated.

Blueno appears behind Sanji using his Doa Doa no Mi powers and uses Rankyaku to send Sanji flying backwards. Robin and Sogeking watch in horror as Sanji almost slides off the train car. Sogeking wonders how Blueno did that and Blueno slowly starts walking toward them. Sogeking stands in Blueno's way but as Sogeking briefly talks with Robin, Blueno disappeared. Blueno suddenly appears behind Sogeking and Sogeking turns around in horror.
Franky is surprised that Blueno disappeared but Rob Lucci explains it's because of Blueno's Doa Doa no Mi powers that allows him to create doors even in the air itself (Air Door). Blueno uses Shigan onto Sogeking and Sogeking falls to his knees. Sogeking demands Blueno to let Robin go but Blueno stabs him again with Shigan. Sogeking falls to the ground and Sanji attempts to attack Blueno but he uses Tekkai to block. Blueno comments on Sanji's weaker kick and viciously slams Sanji to the ground. Blueno attempts to attack Sanji again but Robin holds him back using her powers saying she promises that she won't escape and not to hurt them. Blueno says that they keep attacking him and Robin urges him to leave before Sanji and Sogeking gets up again. Sogeking suddenly speaks up saying they will be alright and knows she is still hiding something. Sogeking there is one last thing and that is a pirate isn't allowed to leave their crew without their captain's permission. He then says she can always believe in Luffy. As Robin heard his statement, Robin suddenly remembers an island being destroyed. Blueno kicks away Sogeking and Robin enters through the air door. Sanji calls out to Robin but Blueno cuts him off saying she wouldn't break their agreement. Sanji wants to know why and Blueno explains that, long ago, an island was erased. He continues saying that the Navy issued a Buster Call that completely wiped out the island and that Robin was the only survivor who was a child at the time. Sanji is shocked to be hearing this and Blueno says that Robin was living with that nightmare for years. Sanji angrily says that they knew and are just using her and Blueno says that of course they knew and it's for the sake of justice. Sanji angrily tries to kick Blueno but he already disappears behind his air door. Sanji yells out that it isn't over. Back in train car 2, Lucci tells Robin to take a seat as they will arrive in Enies Lobby shortly. Franky, wanting to know what's going on, follows Robin and Kalifa wonders if it's a good idea to let Franky go into the train car with Robin. Lucci says that there is nothing they can do as they almost reached their destination and all they can do is await their execution.
Back on the Rocketman, Luffy angrily yells at Yokozuna for derailing the train and demands an apology. Yokozuna yells back at Luffy but Luffy starts attacking him threatening to eat him. Yokozuna slams Luffy backwards and, inside, Paulie wonders what is going on. Everyone else are shaken up and Zambai notices that his King Bulls are gone with the rest of the Franky Family. Paulie says that they're the ones that disappeared as their train got derailed. Everyone is suddenly shocked that Zoro is sleeping while Kokoro gets the Sea Train in control. Zambai asks Kokoro if they will be okay and Kokoro tries to get the Sea Train back on course. Nami asks Kokoro if they know which direction to go and Kokoro says of course as the Sea Trains are built with external poses that always point to the other island's stations. Nami says she will watch the sea as she is a navigator and Kokoro is glad to hear it. Kokoro then yells at Yokozuna to get over to her and Yokozuna does. Kokoro talks with Yokozuna knowing he was just trying to protect her but Kokoro informs him that the pirates didn't kidnap her. Everyone is surprised that Kokoro is talking to a frog and, meanwhile, the Franky Family are trying to look for everyone else. Suddenly, one of the members spots a lone train car and prepare to fight. However, upon closer examination, they spot Sanji.
Back on the Puffing Tom, Kalifa informs an Enies Lobby associate that they will be arriving soon. Lucci says how he feels nostalgic about returning to the "nightless island." In train car 1, Franky is shocked to hear the Iceburg is still alive. Robin tells Franky that CP9 still believes they killed him and that Franky should keep quiet about it. Franky says that Robin acts tough but she does have a heart. Franky then says that the World Government has got what they want: the only women that has the know-how to bring back an ancient weapon and the man with the only known blueprints for one. Franky continues saying if the government gets hold of those blueprints, the entire world will be turned upside down. Franky says that his master laid down his life to ensure those blueprints wouldn't fall into the government's hands. Franky tells Robin that she must find a way to get back to Luffy but Robin says she can't stay with them, all she will bring is suffering. Franky ensures Robin that she isn't the one that is hurting them but the government is. Franky says that the government may say that Robin's existence is a crime but, no matter how dangerous you are, just being alive and who you are is never wrong. Franky continues saying no matter what you do, you are who you are.
Back on the Rocketman, Kokoro tells Yokozuna it's been eight years since Tom has been taken away. She notices how Yokozuna has challenged the Sea Train every day since then and that Yokozuna wants to get stronger so he wouldn't have to lose the ones he loves again. Kokoro tells Yokozuna it's time to put his training to the test as Franky has been taken away as well. Kokoro asks if Yokozuna is up for a fight and Yokozuna yells out signaling a "yes". Kokoro tells Luffy that she found another ally for him and Luffy is glad to hear it. Nami tells Kokoro that she has found a good current to get back on track and Kokoro is determined to get them back on course. Luffy, now on Yokozuna, is ready to go. Meanwhile, the Puffing Tom has arrived at Enies Lobby and the Marines welcome CP9. However, Franky starts to bite on the head on one of the Marines and the rest of the Marines try to restrain him. Robin exits the train as well and Lucci comments on how loud Franky is. CP9 walks down with Franky and Robin and the rest of the Marines and government agents comment on the group. Franky is shocked to see the view of Enies Lobby and notices the waterfall that flows down to nothing.

At Enies Lobby, Spandam is pleased to hear that CP9 is on their way with Nico Robin and Franky. Meanwhile, the Franky Family are trying to catch up to the others on the Rocketman. Sanji just finish telling the other members how Franky sacrificed himself to attempt to save Robin. The members are heartbroken but glad to hear how kindhearted his actions were. Luffy and the others on Rocketman finally catch up to the others and Sanji calls out to Luffy. Luffy notices Sanji but wonders who the other person is (Sogeking). Everyone is prepared for a fight with Zambai informing everyone of it.
At Enies Lobby, Spandam says it's been five years for all eight members of CP9 to be reunited. However, Spandam is furious wanting to know why they assassinate twenty other members of the Revolutionary Army instead of just three. Kumadori suddenly speaks up apologizing saying it's all his fault. Jabra speaks up saying a real man doesn't bow before anybody and agrees to explain what happened. Kumadori says he will take his own life but Jabra speaks up saying they were ready to assassinate as play but the enemy somehow found out about their plan. Fukurou speaks up saying it might have happened when he was talking about the plan all over town and Jabra angrily pulls at Fukurou's mouth. Kumadori says there is no need to blame Fukurou and agrees to take full responsibility. However, he uses Tekkai to stop himself for killing himself much to the annoyance of Jabra. The three other members of CP9 continue to argue and Spandam says he understands before spilling hot coffee on himself. Spandam also says that he heard about Nero didn't work out but he doesn't care.
Back at the Rocketman, Sogeking's theme song plays again and Luffy and Chopper are amazed to see a real life "superhero". However, everyone else isn't fooled by Usopp's disguise. Chopper asks for an autograph and Luffy asks what happened to Usopp. Sogeking says that isn't important but what's important is to save Robin. Sogeking, Luffy, and Chopper begin singing and Sanji suddenly tells everyone that they need to know something. Sanji tells everyone about the situation with Robin and that CP9 is using her childhood fears against her. Sanji explains saying he's not using that as an excuse for not saving Robin but Robin may not come with them when they do try to rescue her. Luffy yells out saying it doesn't matter and suddenly blames Robin. Nami hits Luffy on the head saying not to blame her but Luffy says that it is. Luffy says he doesn't care and will do everything to rescue her. Zoro tells Nami to let it go as the main goal is still the same. Luffy says he will beat every one of them saying he has new moves he has to try out.
Paulie suddenly speaks up saying he went to Enies Lobby a while back to do maintenance on the railways and had written a rough sketch of Enies Lobby. Paulie says that the Gates of Justice are located at the far back and they only way to get to them is to go through the Tower of Law. Luffy wonders what is the big hole and Paulie says it's the waterfall. Paulie says that if they don't rescue Robin and Franky before they pass through the Gates of Justice, then it's all over. Luffy says it doesn't matter if Robin passes through them that they will rescue Robin but Nami says that once they pass the gate, the only two places to go are Marine Headquarters or Impel Down. Nami says that they must settle this before Robin passes through the Gates of Justice. Paulie speaks up saying that the Straw Hat Pirates are the only ones strong enough to go against CP9 and says that they should stay behind and give them five minutes before charging ahead. Zambai says that the Franky Family and Galley-La will first break open the main gate so the train can pass through. Zambai knows that the Marines have over 2,000 men but the best chance for victory is for the Straw Hats to go after CP9 while the others take down the Marines. Luffy agrees to this plan and Kokoro speaks up saying they have arrived at Enies Lobby.
Everyone is shocked to see how large the Gates of Justice are and Kokoro says they only open the gates wide enough for the criminals to pass. Kokoro continues saying behind the Gates of Justice lurks Sea Kings where no ships dare to go. Everyone is ready to go and prepare to go along with the plan. However, Luffy has gone missing and the rubberman has already launched himself into Enies Lobby much to the shock, annoyance, and anger of everyone else. Paulie and Zambai thought he understood the plan and Zoro says he should've known Luffy would do that. Zambai orders Sodom and Gomorrah to jump over the fence and break down the gate. Meanwhile, Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Rocket to launch himself further into Enies Lobby and the Marines and government agents spot him. Luffy charges forward while Spandam is informed of an intruder. One of the Marines warns the others that the intruder is none other than Straw Hat Luffy and Luffy knocks down some Marines. The Marines are shocked to hear that Luffy is there and Luffy smashes through some more Marines wanting to know where Robin is.

Spandam receives a report with the Marine saying there are a bunch of people charging through the main gate and they need reinforcements. The Franky Family charge in riding on Sodom and Gomorrah and blast away at some Marines. Spandam demands to know what is going on. Past the main gate, the Franky Family's largest members, the Kairiki Destroyers are the first to get off and begin fighting through the Marines. Meanwhile, Robin is seen turning around with a concerned look on her face and Rob Lucci tells her it is too late to have second thoughts. Robin and the rest of CP9 with Franky continue to walk on.
Just outside Enies Lobby, the other Straw Hat Pirates are seen preparing on the Rocketman. Kokoro then says over the loud speaker that they have four minutes left before they charge through.
Meanwhile, Luffy walks up to a group of Marines and politely asks them if he could pass, but a Marine charges in toward Luffy with a spear. However, Luffy dodges it and uses a new, unique move known as Gomu Gomu no Mikata Robo that allows him to "control" the captured Marine. Luffy uses the captured Marine to take down some Marines who says he cannot control his actions. Two Marines attempt to attack Luffy from behind but Luffy escapes and the two Marines attack the previously captured Marine instead. Luffy escapes over the second gate telling the Marines they will have more people to fight later. 
The Marines are forced to tell Spandam that Luffy has made it to the main island. Spandam is furious wanting to know what happened to Kashii and Oimo thinking they have been taken out as well. The Marine, however, says that they may be sleeping and Spandam angrily tells the Marine to wake them up. Jabra wonders why everyone is throwing a riot over one intruder, but says he and the others will take care of him. Spandam says that is not necessary as Enies Lobby is the way to the World Government and is a symbol of justice. Spandam continues saying it will be an embarrassment if the Straw Hats manage to save their one crewmate and promises that the Straw Hats will pay.
Back at the main gate, Spandam demands to know what is going on from the gatekeeper. However, the gatekeeper has been knocked out as the Franky Family and Galley-La take out some Marines. Paulie takes out a group using Rope Action: Figure of Eight Knot while Zambai smashes some with his cannon not wanting to waste any ammo on the weaker men. Paulie tells the others to open the main gate and Mozu and Kiwi agree to do so. Peepley Lulu takes out a Marine while Tilestone bear-hugs some others. Mozu and Kiwi manage to pick the locks using their swords and the Kairiki Destroyers push open the large doors. The Franky Family celebrate pushing open the door and they all rush through. Zambai suddenly yells out to some of the others that he has a plan and needs help. As the members of the Franky Family proceed, they are ambushed by the two giants Kashii and Oimo. Kashii and Oimo taunt the Franky Family due to their size and the Kairiki Destroyers agree to fight them. However, even the largest members of the Franky Family are no match for two giants and are effortlessly taken out much to the surprise and shock of the rest of the Franky Family. Kashii and Oimo continue to taunt the Franky Family, saying they will not let them pass, but the Franky Family are determined to save Franky. Back outside the gates, Kokoro says that they have two minutes before charging in. Meanwhile, Luffy finds himself surrounded by many Marines and government agents. One of them taunts Luffy saying they have 10,000 soldiers. Luffy cracks his knuckles preparing for a fight and tells the Marines to get out of his way.

Even after the Kairiki Destroyers are defeated by Oimo and Kashii, the members of the Franky Family continue fighting the giants. With Mozu and Kiwi's Ship's Bottom Dismantling Cut, Paulie's Rope Action, and Zambai's bazooka, Kashii is finally defeated. He is then nailed down by Peepley Lulu and Tilestone. Oimo then takes on the remaining fighters, while Luffy takes out five hundred soldiers on his own.
Meanwhile, the members of CP9 meet together in the first full reunion in five years. Fukurou measures the physical strength of the CP9 members. He is shocked to find that Lucci is the strongest, measuring at 4000 doriki (a measurement unit of strength where an average soldier is 10 doriki.) Jabra complains that he was ranked lower than Kaku, and he and Lucci begin bickering.
After the members of CP9 finish fighting, Spandam addresses them. He commends them for capturing Nico Robin and Cutty Flam. He mentions a reward he intends to give them, but does not give it to them at the moment. Meanwhile, Robin reflects on the happy moments she spent with the Straw Hats.
Outside in the city, Luffy continues being chased by the Marines and World Government, while the Rocketman prepares to arrive at Enies Lobby.

The Rocketman is nearing Enies Lobby. Meanwhile, Nico Robin and Franky are brought before Spandam, the leader of CP9. Spandam mocks Tom for rebelling against the government. Franky then attacks Spandam by biting him. Kumadori defended Spandam by striking Franky's chains with his staff.
On the streets, Luffy defeats another wave of Marines and World Government agents. He runs near the top of the building, rips out a portion of wall, throws it into the air, and uses his Gatling Gun move to cause the wall to turn into rubble flying in all directions.
The remaining Marines approach Baskerville, a group of three people dressed up as a single person. They tell Baskerville that Kashi has been defeated, and that Oimo is being overwhelmed by the remaining fighters. Baskerville sends one hundred men from the Watchdog Unit to the area.
At the gate, Oimo is distracted by the Franky Family while Mozu and Kiwi manage to unlock the gate. Oimo tries to stop them from getting past the gate but is restrained by Paulie's Rope Action. The King Bulls pull the rope, causing Oimo to spin. 
Meanwhile, the Rocketman finally reaches Enies Lobby. Yokozuna pushes on the gate, allowing the Rocketman to ride over the fence. The train is sent flying into the air. Meanwhile, the Franky Family finally defeats Oimo. Paulie advances past the gate with the others, only to be stabbed in the shoulder by a member of the Watchdog Unit. Oimo also wakes up, only to be knocked back out by the Rocketman crashing into him.
The Straw Hats emerge from the Rocketman and defeat the Marines and agents. The remaining agents corner Luffy near the end of a cliff. Luffy screams at the agents and tells them to stay out of his way.

Luffy being surrounded by thousands of Marines is cornered on a cliff, when the Big Bazooka units fire at him making him fall off. The Marines find Luffy hanging off the cliff and try to make him fall to his death by stepping on his fingers, but the cliff collapses and Luffy starts running on top of the falling Marines. The Marines who did not fall tries to shoot down Luffy while he runs away.
Zoro and Sanji are arguing which one of them is better. The Marines notice Sogeking and Chopper and shoot the Rocketman but stop firing once they find out that Kokoro, Chimney and Gonbe were hostages (a trick invented to fool the Marines). Nami makes a cloud in the sky and uses Thunderbolt Tempo to take out most of the Marines. Unfortunately, Usopp's Perfect Clima-Tact design has left the power of the Tempo beyond her control, and it ends up firing thunderbolts all over the island. Nami gets launched away by her own attack and whacks Usopp over the head for messing up the weapon a second time. Her attack has backfired so badly even Zoro and Sanji have been hit. So, the Straw Hats (excluding Nico Robin) try to catch up with Luffy. Luffy is still fighting with the Marines, and notices that some Marines are leaving to stop the pirates at the Main Island front gate. Luffy now knows that his crew, Franky Family and Galley-La Company have arrived.
Zoro notices that they are being followed by the Watchdog Unit of the Law and that Marines begin to surround them. Sodom and Gomorrah come barging in with the Galley-La Company and Franky Family. Using his ropes, Paulie helps the Straw Hats get on. Galley-La go and fight the Marines, allowing the Straw Hats to focus on CP9.
Spandam explains how he knew that Robin was coming to Water 7 by Aokiji, who also gave him permission to use the Buster Call. Robin gets punched for asking Spandam why Aokiji gave permission for the Buster call. Robin is reminded of her past by Spandam.

Robin questions why Spandam was given rights to the Buster Call, when she is reminded with the Ohara incident. Robin has a brief flashback of the archaeologists. Spandam tells Robin that the Straw Hats are on the island and should have already been captured (but this report was incomplete). Robin says her agreement was to let the Straw Hats go if she is captured. Spandam then tells Rob Lucci to remind Nico Robin of the exact conditions that were offered, which Rob Lucci explains that the terms of the arrangement were that, excluding Nico Robin, the Straw Hat Pirates would be allowed to leave Water 7 safely; Spandam then tells Robin that after allowing the Straw Hats to leave Water 7 safely as promised, they then decided to come to Enies Lobby (which was beyond the scope of the arrangement). The Marines are still trying to capture Luffy, but are getting clobbered. Fukurou tells Blueno that the report said that only 5 people were down, and they noticed the Den Den Mushi receiver is hooked off. Spandam ask what the CP9 wants and Rob Lucci explain they want blood, and they have the right to kill people because they are with the Government. Sodom and Gomorrah come and rampage over the Marines. Luffy gets cornered by the Marines, so to escape he goes on the roof, but the Marines follow him. Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Rocket and barely escapes the Marine's attacks. Sodom tells Chopper how Franky helped them out and now they are loyal followers of the Franky Family. The Straw Hats now notice that Sogeking is not with them. The Galley-La Company are at the Main Gate and still fighting with the Marines, Paulie remembers what the Straw Hats said and will now stop the Marines from interfering. Luffy has finally shaken off the Marines and made it to the courtyard. Blueno makes a door out of thin air and explains this is the first time that some has got past the entrance. Blueno asks Luffy when he will stop fighting and he replies that he won't at all.

Sogeking is too far away for the Straw Hat Pirates to go back for, so he will have to find his own way to return to the group. Sogeking is having doubts about whether or not he should run away. Oimo wakes up crying, Sogeking wants to know why Oimo is crying. Oimo and Kashii were in a pirate crew, but their bosses starting having competitions and would not leave (Little Garden) until they find out which one is better, so the crew returned home without the two bosses. After fifty years had passed, Oimo and Kashii went back to get their two bosses, but the World Government captured them with a lie. They promised them to let their bosses free if they worked for Enies Lobby for one hundred years and that they will be free and return home to Elbaf. Sogeking tells Oimo the true story, that Dorry and Brogy, have been fighting on Little Garden for one hundred years now, and their competition still continues. Both Sodom and Gomorrah are raging through the Marines, but then Sodom gets hit by the cannon in the heart. Sodom collapses and the Marines find no one riding him. The Straw Hats were able to board Gomorrah before Sodom collapsed and continue moving forward.
Luffy wants Robin back and Blueno explains that Luffy is committing quite a criminal offense against the world. Luffy starts the fight where he breaks through Blueno's Tekkai, sees through his Soru and is able to hit him. Luffy expresses how he does not care about the World Government and that he just wants to get Robin back.

Chimney and Gonbe are seen observing something through monoculars on top of Rocketman and calling out to Kokoro, who is drinking next to them. On the road towards the courthouse the Franky Family and the Straw Hat Pirates ride on Gomorrah's back through the Marine forces. Zambai orders Gomorrah to get off the central road, where the Marines are ready to ambush them, to avoid getting injured. Sodom is seen lying hurt on the ground behind them. Kokoro contacts the Straw Hats through Nami's baby Den Den Mushi. She tells them an important information she forgot to mention earlier; how to enter the Tower of Justice from the courthouse, which are not connected via an obvious path. The way is to move the levers that exist on the top floor of the two towers that lie on both sides of the courthouse. This action will lower a bridge that connects the two buildings. Kokoro has been aware of this information since she came to fix the system once with Tom, when he was still alive. The Den Den Mushi is passed on to Chimney who tells Nami that she saw Luffy on the rooftop of the courthouse. Before they hang up, Kokoro asks Nami to keep an eye to the Den Den Mushi in case something more comes up. Zambai then sets up a plan to move as fast as possible. The Franky family will split into two groups they will head to the courthouse towers in order to lower the bridge, while the Straw-Hats will head straight to the courthouse rooftop to join with Luffy. Everyone agrees with his plan. Unfortunately, shortly afterwards Gomorrah gets knocked down by Just Eleven Jurymen, allowing the Marines to catch up with them.
Meanwhile, the two gatekeeper giants, Kashii and Oimo, who were previously defeated at the front gate of Enies Lobby from the combined forces of the three Galley-La foremen and the Franky Family, have now recovered and are able to catch up with the Galley-La Company. Both giants, aware of the deceit from the World Government, are now ready to get revenge which is unexpected by the Marine forces on site and the Galley-La foremen. The former seems very glad about the appearance of the giants, while the latter are completely discouraged and expecting their end. However, the tables turn when the giants reveal their purpose and Sogeking appears on Kashii's shoulders. The giants easily knock out several Marines.
The next scene begins with Franky and Robin, who are prisoners in the Tower of Justice. Franky tells Robin how lucky she is to have friends like the Straw-Hats who put so much effort for her rescue and followed her to as dangerous a place as Enies Lobby. He also tries to convince himself that he is not unhappy with the absence of his own friends, whose arrival has not reached him yet. A flashback starts which shows Spandam offering Kaku and Kalifa Devil Fruits with unknown powers. At first, both CP9 members seemed unwilling to consume the Devil fruits. Jabra was terrified at the sudden appearance of the Devil Fruits and ran away from them. He claimed that each Devil Fruit has a devil in it, and if a Devil Fruit user approaches the two devils of the Fruits will start fighting and the user will explode. However, Blueno explains that this is a misconception. The truth is that a person will only explode if they consume two Devil Fruits, as research from Grand Line scientists has revealed. He also showed his contempt at the misinformation a prestigious intelligence agent like Jabra spreads. Jabra accepted the fact, and overcame his fear, getting closer the Devil Fruits. The flashback ends with Spandam greedily thinking about the increased power the CP9 will achieve after his agents consume the Devil Fruits. At the present moment, the CP9 agents are gathered in Lucci's room, with Blueno only missing. Jabra tries to convince Kaku and Kalifa against eating the Devil Fruits. Kumadori and Fukurou interpreted his stance as jealousy towards any CP9 member who might overcome him in power. However, Jabra discards any such claims and explains his arguments, which are the amount of money Kaku, and Kalifa could gain by selling the Devil Fruits, the possible problems they could face from the Devil Fruits's powers and the fruits' bad taste. Both Kaku and Kalifa resolve to eat the Devil Fruits after all. Apart from their bad taste, they are not affected in any other way for the moment. Lucci appears very satisfied that they ate the Devil Fruits and urges them to understand their new powers and use them against the upcoming confrontation with the Straw-Hats, which Blueno has already started.
The fight between Luffy and Blueno continues, where Blueno understands that Luffy is tougher than he initially thought and tries even harder, taking into account the rubber-like nature of Luffy's body. Blueno uses his ability of making doors out of thin air, to immobilize both of Luffy's feet, thus revealing to him his Devil Fruit power. He explains that he ate the Doa Doa no Mi and splits Luffy's face in three parts, making the one which contains the eyes rotate. At that moment, it is revealed to the Straw-Hats that Luffy has begun a fight with one of the CP9 members. With everyone ready to get off from Gomorrah's back and rush towards Luffy, Chopper shouts against it. Gomorrah communicated to him that he is still capable of moving forward. At the same time, the King Bull gets up from being injured and is on the move again.

Gomorrah, despite being hit by the giant iron balls of the Just Eleven Jurymen, gets back up and continues to advance once again. However, one of the attacks hit his head and damaged his retinas, blinding him; the ride gets rough as Gomorrah crashes against buildings. Chopper tells everyone that Gomorrah had made a promise to Sodom, that he would take them to the courtyard. He is also motivated to help the Straw Hats and Franky Family rescue Franky, the man who saved him and Sodom from being eaten by a Sea King and eventually made them part of the Family. Gomorrah continues charging, but a dead-end loom ahead. Zoro and Sanji break through the intervening building and Gomorrah finally collapses, but he has succeeded. Marines sound the alert; the intruders have successfully crossed the Main Island and reached the Courthouse Plaza.
While Spandam is talking to himself, a marine barges in, nearly making Spandam order the Buster Call. Spandam finally finds out that his Den Den Mushi is off the hook, and that there is an emergency on Enies Lobby. Spandam begins bragging to Robin about how weak the Straw Hat Pirates are. He haughtily asks the agent on the other end if the Straw Hats got accidentally killed, but the agent's reply removes any smugness from Spandam's face: There are approximately 60 intruders total (The Straw Hat Pirates are known, but the Franky Family and Galley-La Shipwrights are not). In spite of the massed resistance of the Marines and agents, they have successfully crossed the Main Island and are outside the Courthouse. Oimo and Kashii have defected (due to Sogeking revealing Dorry and Brogy were never captured) and are now crossing the main island as well, leaving another trail of destruction in their wake. Total casualties to this point total not five, but over 2000. Luffy is responsible for over 1,000 of those casualties; worse, they lost track of him after he rocketed himself towards the Courthouse.
Meanwhile, the Franky Family and the remaining Straw Hats contemplate their next course of action when another Juror's ball is hurled at them. But Yokozuna blocks it with his immense strength. Sanji then follows the chain back, locates, and defeats three of the Jurors. Meanwhile, Zoro cuts away part of the Courthouse door, opening a way inside. With enemies quickly approaching, everyone forms up. Remembering what Kokoro told them, the Frankly Family split into three teams. Mozu and Kiwi lead two groups towards the towers while Zambai leads the rest into the Courthouse to back up the Straw Hats.
Spandam begins to panic as the gravity of the "worst day in the history of Enies Lobby" dawns on him. He rushes to the front window and looks outside. There, he sees Blueno atop the Courthouse (Luffy is down a hole and not visible) and tries to figure out what is happening. Soon, Luffy re-emerges from the hole, having been momentarily disoriented from getting his face turned into a door. Blueno resumes his attack, but Luffy continues to track him in spite of Soru, dodges a Shigan and manages to deflect a Rankyaku away from him. Luffy then declares that he cannot finish the fight in his current state. Explaining he needed a way to be stronger in order to protect his friends, he reveals a new technique he developed in order to take his abilities "one step" higher. He calls it "Gear 2".

The Three-Headed Judge reports in to Spandam informing him that the pirates have now made their way into the Courthouse. The Three-Headed Judge proceeds to inform the pirates that they had entered a place of "sacred judgement" and begins a trial. Zambai and the Franky Family tell Zoro and Nami to make their way to the roof where Luffy is already fighting while Yokozuna and them prevent any of the Marines from flanking them. The Marines and the World Government Workers notice that the pirates are completely ignoring the trial, and one of them raises their rifle and points it towards Zoro who uses his Enbima Yonezu Oni Giri attack to clear a path towards the stairs as they start running towards them.
Sanji, who was still outside fighting Marines, comes running in past Zambai yelling for Chopper and Zoro to get out of his way (calling them "reindeer and idiot swordsman" respectively), because he is going to be the one to clear the path for Nami, while jumping and kicking at Zoro, who promptly asks Sanji if he wants to fight. The Franky Family are confused by this and cannot believe he is picking a fight with his crew mates in this situation. Sanji tells Nami to follow him, and only him, as he runs up the stairs ahead of everyone, to which Nami reminds Sanji they are there to save Robin. Sanji then remembers this point, only to exclaim how she must already be lonely and crying while waiting for him to save her. It is around this time that Chopper notices that Zoro has gone the wrong way and not taken the stairs, wondering how Zoro could have gone the wrong way when he just gave him directions and was standing right there. Chopper says that he is going to make Zoro medicine for being "clueless", to which Nami asks if he can also make some for Sanji, who is seen running fast enough to kick up a dust cloud several levels up now.
As Chopper stops at the top of the stairs to tell Zoro the way (much to his dislike), the Three-Headed Judge jumps from down below angry that he is being ignored. Zoro blocks the initial attack, as the Judge grabs onto the ledge. Just as Zoro is preparing to fight the Judge, the Franky Family grabs onto the Judge's legs and pulls him back down to their level, telling the Straw Hats that they will handle him.
The scene shifts back to the roof of the Courthouse, where Luffy has just released Gear 2 for the first time in his fight against Blueno. Luffy tells Blueno that he is glad that he met them, because now he will be able to protect his friends as he moves through ever increasingly more powerful opponents. Blueno is confused, since losing Robin is directly related to meeting CP9.
Luffy then raises his hand, as if aiming at Blueno, and starts saying "Gomu Gomu no...". Blueno asks if he is aiming at him, and says that will only give him more time to dodge Luffy's attack. He tells Luffy to try and hit him, and immediately uses Soru. Almost instantly, using a previously unseen attack, Luffy yells "Jet Pistol", which sends Blueno flying and slamming into the wall behind him. Blueno quickly gets up, unsure of what just happened, looking back toward where Luffy was standing, only to see that he was no longer there. From off camera, another Jet Pistol hits him directly in the right side of the face (Luffy does not call out the name of the attack this time), sending him flying the other direction. Luffy is then seen moving toward Blueno, so fast that he seems to disappear, and transitioning into a Jet Rifle, which sends Blueno flying again. He's moving and attacking so quickly that Luffy forgoes "Gomu Gomu no Jet" before calling out each successive attack: a shortcut he only used once before when fighting Arlong: and then only for a two-shot combo. While Blueno is still in the air, Luffy appears directly above him and uses his fist to pummel Blueno into the rooftop, and then immediately back-flips through the air and lands back on his feet several meters away. Blueno sits up, and looks towards where Luffy landed, but all that is there is a puff of steam. Blueno looks around frantically, thinking to himself how he cannot see Luffy at all, and is then hit with another shot from Luffy that sends him flying again. Luffy jumps to the top of a flag pole and unleashes a quick barrage of attacks on Blueno, hitting him with a Gomu Gomu no Jet Stomp, Jet Spear, and Jet Missile (by grabbing onto Blueno's horns) before he even has a chance to react.
Blueno makes it to one knee as he looks around, barely able to see Luffy move as he takes another hit. It is then he realizes that Luffy has mastered the Rokushiki technique Soru. Blueno uses his Doa Doa no Mi powers to create a door in mid-air and jump through it into an alternate dimension. He ponders how Luffy could have possibly learned and mastered a Rokushiki technique, ultimately deciding that Luffy's skills cannot possibly match up to a true Rokushiki user's prowess. Blueno opens the Air Door again, jumping at Luffy who easily avoids the attack. Luffy explains that he is glad he learned something like Soru was possible (by kicking the ground over ten times in an instant; his accurate description confirms Blueno's suspicious of him mastering the technique) and that now he will not lose anymore friends because he is not strong enough. Luffy stretches his arms back as Blueno says to bring it on and that he will stop Luffy's attack with his strongest Tekkai, "Go" (Strong). Luffy then hits him with a full-power Jet Bazooka, which sends Blueno sliding back on his heels with a huge dent in his chest, but he remains standing. Luffy comes out of Gear 2, and tells Blueno that he really is a tough guy, but that he has something even more interesting to show him. As Luffy raises his hand to his mouth to begin a new assault, he noticed Blueno is not moving. Blueno then falls to the ground, ending the fight.
Luffy is exhausted after the fight, talking to himself about how his body still cannot quite take Gear 2. But his body is the least of his worries right now; he needs to keep advancing.
Meanwhile the rest of the crew and Franky Family are still fighting through the Marines and World Government Workers. Sogeking is shown still riding Kashii and Oimo with the rest of Galley-La Company. The Marines cannot believe that Yokozuna is preventing them from entering the Courthouse, while Kiwi and Mozu are shown still climbing the towers trying to lower the drawbridge. Spandam tells the workers to gather all the CP9 members together, as the episode ends with Luffy yelling out Robin's name.

Spandam gets an update from the Marines. They've managed to locate Luffy atop the Courthouse. This confuses Spandam since he knows Blueno was up there, too. He looks out his window again and sees Luffy recuperating by eating the meat he'd kept in his pockets. Then he sees Blueno motionless nearby. Spandam can only make one sickening conclusion from this. Luffy had defeated Blueno, a member of CP9, one of the most merciless organizations in the World Government. Such a feat should be unthinkable, but Luffy's defiant call for Nico Robin leaves no doubt who won that fight. He immediately calls for Rob Lucci and the rest of CP9. He also orders Baskerville to guard the drawbridge to the Tower of Justice at all costs.
Franky doesn't understand why Robin refuses to be saved even after Spandam broke his promise. Franky begins to suspect Robin is running away from something else. While Luffy yelled in the background, Franky decided to make Robin face him. Spandam returns, ordering the Robin and Franky be taken to the Gates of Justice immediately. But he's shocked to discover Frankly has used the rest of his cola power to inflate his rear in what he claims to be a self-destruct mode. Everyone runs for cover, and Franky uses the commotion to release the pressure in his Coup de Boo: a giant flatus that blasts himself and Robin outside, onto the balcony, and into Luffy's sight, breaking his chains in the process. Thankfully, the guard fence keeps them from flying into the abyss outside the tower. Luffy wanted to slingshot himself over the waterfall to rescue Robin, but she told him to stay and that she only wanted to die. The rest of CP9 then joins Spandam to retake Robin and Franky.
In front of the courthouse, Yokozuna keeps a brave stand but now faces the jurors. Jurors are also blocking the way for Mozu's and Kiwi's teams and the rest of the Straw Hats. Zambai is surprised there's an actual courthouse instead of just an empty hall. Baskerville reveals the truth is somewhere in between. He does hold a trial, but the Jurors are all pirates condemned to death; therefore, their only pleasure left is to take as many other pirates with them, so the only thing they say is, "Guilty!". The fighting is getting rough; even Yokozuna goes down from a continual assault from the Jurors' giant iron balls. Meanwhile, the Marines regroup behind bulletproof shields and are about to charge into the courthouse. But they are then stopped by Oimo and Kashii, who still have a beef with the Marines who made them waste 50 years by lying to them. Zoro, lost as usual, decides to take a shortcut by blasting the ceiling with Tatsu Maki. This takes out the Juror blocking Nami and Chopper but catches them, too. As Luffy and CP9 stare at each other across the abyss, Luffy declares that they will rescue Robin anyway. Only after she's safe can she decide her own fate. The rest of the Straw Hats eventually join Luffy on the roof (Nami and Chopper blown through the ceiling, Zoro climbing up after them, Sanji kicking his own hole, and finally Sogeking being thrown up by Kashii). Once again, Luffy declares that if Robin wants to leave or die, she can only do so once she's back by their side.
The Straw Hats gather together, each standing atop one of the battlements of the courthouse. Across the falls is the Tower of Justice: their goal and their enemy staring back at them. Tears stream in Robin's eyes as Luffy declares, "Leave the rest to us!"

Twenty years into the past, Robin is growing up on the island of Ohara. Her aunt, with whom she lives while her mother is away doing research, treats her poorly. Other children ostracize her. Studying in the world's greatest library, the Tree of Omniscience, in the hopes of being allowed to help the local archeologists in their forbidden research, Robin earns the rank of a scholar in archaeology at age eight. However, when she announces her intention to help, her request is denied because of her youth. Disappointed at being rejected again, she walks along the shore, where she stumbles on Jaguar D. Saul, a giant and deserted vice admiral of the Marines. The two become friends and Saul teaches her to laugh.

A woman walks through the streets of Ohara, listening to the rumors that a Marine ship has appeared at its docks. The scholars at the Tree of Knowledge are informed about this.
Meanwhile, Robin continues to talk to Saul about her hopes of meeting her mother, becoming an archaeologist and studying the Void Century, a century in history whose study is forbidden by the World Government. She tells Saul that her mother was studying the Poneglyphs. Saul was shocked to hear that Robin was the daughter of Nico Olvia, an archaeologist who left the island to study the Poneglyphs.
Saul warns Robin that the Marines were there to eliminate the island's scholars. Meanwhile, the woman from before has arrived at the Tree of Knowledge and is revealed to be Olvia, and she explains that she arrived on the Marine ship. She tells the scholars that the group of people who left the island to search for Poneglyphs were killed by the World Government, leaving her the sole survivor. She warns that the World Government plans to exterminate all of the scholars of Ohara. She tells them to evacuate the island immediately, but the scholars refuse to leave, as fleeing the island would mean abandoning the priceless recorded history. 
Olvia decides to cut ties with Robin to prevent Robin from being known as the daughter of a criminal. She takes a gun and leaves. Meanwhile, a World Government ship arrives at Ohara and storms the Tree of Knowledge, targeting all scholars who have tried to study the Poneglyphs. Those who were not archaeologists were ordered to evacuate the island. 
Spandine, who was also on the island, was shot in the sleeve by Olvia. Spandine explains that he intended to storm Ohara to warn the academic community to refrain from studying the Void Century. Olvia is struck down. Meanwhile, the World Government agents storm the Tree of Knowledge and round up the scholars, including Robin. Spandine arrives, with one of his underlings carrying an unconscious Olvia.
Clover distracts Spandine to allow Robin to escape. Meanwhile, Saul walks around the island looking for Robin.

Professor Clover is allowed to speak with one of the Five Elders and does a report of their research. He describes a civilization that existed hundreds of years ago and vanished at the time that the World Government assumed power. He considers the collective evidence, which leads him to believe that the government tried to erase their former enemies from history. After stating that Ohara has learned too much, the Five Elders orders Spandine to kill the professor and to give the order to destroy the island. Suddenly, the library is set aflame; while the scholars try to save the books, Robin admits to being an archeologist and unites with her mother. However, their reunion does not last long. Around them, cannon shots from the Buster Call's battleships start to hail down and Olvia sends her daughter off with Saul to flee the island, while she joins the effort to save the library's knowledge.

Saul fights the battleships, attempting to allow Robin to escape. She tries to board the evacuation ship, but per Spandine's orders, she is denied access. Vice-Admiral Kuzan, later known as Admiral Aokiji, enters the scene to engage in battle with Saul. While they fight, the evacuation ship is sunk by the fanatical Vice-Admiral Sakazuki, later known as Admiral Akainu. Saul, on the verge of dying, instructs Robin to flee on his raft. Persuaded by Saul's argument and Sakazuki's action, Kuzan helps Robin escape. From then on, Robin lives a life on the run, not being able to trust even the kindest of people, in a world that believes that her existence alone is a sin. In the present, Robin admits her greatest fear: to be seen as a burden by her crewmates and cast away, because being with her means having the world as their enemy. Finally knowing what kept her away, Sogeking, on Luffy's order, burns the Government's flag, declaring war against the World Government itself. Spandam, the Marines, and the World Government soldiers are absolutely shocked. Spandam howls at the Straw Hats that they cannot expect to live with the entire world as their enemy, but Luffy angrily bellows if he wants to bet on it. Robin begins crying after seeing her friends stay by her side. Luffy screams at Robin to say she wants to live, and the others encourage her. Robin remembers the words Saul told her- that she would find true friends who would never leave her, no matter what. Although she also thinks back to all the terrible things once said to her, she also remembers what Usopp told her: believe in Luffy. Breaking down in very heavy tears, she realizes the world had denied her a reason to live. Until now, she was never allowed to declare her own wish. She finally wails out that she wants to live, and for Luffy to take her out to sea with the crew. Luffy beams with a triumphant smile, while Franky sobs from being touched by what he has just seen. The Straw Hats prepare for battle against CP9 to rescue their beloved crewmate at any cost.

Luffy announces that they are going to save Robin, as the drawbridge is lowered. Meanwhile, Nami thinks of how Robin's lonely days are now over, which reminds her of how she joined the Straw Hats herself. In the flashback, Nami tells Luffy not to get involved with what is happening in her hometown and then goes to her house, where Nojiko observes the mess that Nami has caused in a fit of anger. Nojiko asks Nami if the Straw Hats are upsetting her, and Nami explains that she was hoping to be able to leave them behind but that she might have remained with them forever if things had happened differently. Nojiko understands how much Nami cares about the others. Nami's memory of how she joined Arlong's pirate crew, in order to gain enough money to buy her village, is shown. Nami later confronts Arlong, furious about how he allowed the Marines he had bribed to steal her money. Arlong insists he never broke his promise and encourages her to just start saving up anew. He tells Nami that if she flees instead, he will kill everyone in Cocoyasi village. The villagers, led by Gen, hear about this and decide to fight back against Arlong for not keeping his word and being so cruel to Nami. Just as they are ready to go, Nami tries to stop them to keep them out of danger, telling them that she will make a new attempt to buy them free. However, Gen hugs her and says that it is hopeless and that she has done more than enough, finally convincing Nami to let them go. As the villagers set off to Arlong Park, Nami starts stabbing her tattoo until Luffy shows up and stops her. At first, Nami became upset with him for meddling, insisting that it is none of his business, which Luffy is well aware of. But at last, she asks him to help her, crying. Luffy places his straw hat on Nami's head and agrees to do so, and he tells Zoro, Sanji and Usopp to come along, which they do. Luffy breaks into Arlong Park and meets Arlong. They are next seen in Nami's cartography room, where she had been held prisoner for years. For this reason, Luffy starts destroying the room, while fighting Arlong. The whole building is smashed from the attacks. The crowd stares at the scene, wondering who won. Luffy eventually rises from the rubble and tells Nami that she is his friend. Nami starts crying and the scene returns to present time. At Enies Lobby, Nami is reminded of how she has to fight for Robin just like the others did for her before. Speaking on a Den Den Mushi, Kokoro encourages the Straw Hats to get moving, and Luffy stretches his arms to take his friends with him as he jumps down from the building.

We rewind to the point just after Robin tearfully declares she wants to live. Back at the Courthouse, Mozu and Kiwi finally make it to the drawbridge levers atop the towers and throw them. The Straw Hats feel the rumble and realize the drawbridge to the Tower of Justice is lowering. Soon the gap will be closed, and the Straw Hats can advance. CP9 stands defiant, ready for the challenge. Back at the Courthouse, Baskerville declares he will stop the drawbridge. Zambai and Paulie attempt to counterattack, but a shocking fact is revealed. Baskerville isn't one Three-Headed Judge but three judges in a single costume. Because of this, the attacks miss, and Center Baskerville is able to order a trench mortar fired on the drawbridge, jamming it partway. Without a clear path, Spandam can still escape to the Gates of Justice.
But then, Franky decides to make a play of his own. He reveals something Spandam had been seeking for a long time: the plans to Pluton. Spandam and CP9 suddenly realize they'd been tricked. Franky had been concealing the plans within his cyborg body the whole time. Spandam demands Franky hand them over, but instead Franky talks to Nico Robin, admitting that he'd misjudged her based on the rumors of her past. The one thing he and the rest of Water 7 had feared the most was the forbidden knowledge she kept in her head. That and the plans in his hand are the only means by which to reconstruct a weapon of mass destruction. The only reason Water 7 had been keeping the plans was in case she or someone tapped into her knowledge and built a Pluton; then it would take another Pluton to counter it. For years, the shipwrights feared Robin because she was a wildcard: a lonely, shunned individual who could be exploited to tragic end. But now, for the first time, Robin is not alone. The Straw Hats stand with her and have already declared their intention to defend her to the end. Knowing this, and knowing the peculiar situation he's in, Franky decides to make a bet. Silently praying that Tom would've understood what he is about to do, he holds the Pluton plans before him...and burns them to ashes in a blast of Fresh Fire. Spandam and CP9 are shocked again as Franky ruins their five-year espionage mission in a stroke. With the World Government actively seeking them, the plans were no longer of value as a countermeasure, so Franky denied them the prize to prevent them being turned against the wishes of the shipwrights. With the plans destroyed, there's only one way left to build Pluton: Robin's knowledge. His bet is that the Straw Hats will rescue Robin: in doing so denying the World Government their last chance to gain access to the weapon. Franky is now siding with the Straw Hats to help ensure this. Suddenly, Franky hears familiar voices from the Courthouse. It's Zambai and the Franky Family, cheering him on. Franky realizes he, too, is not alone. Finally driven to the point of rage, Spandam attacks Franky, sending him over the broken balcony and into the abyss...
At that moment, Kokoro's voice sounds from Nami's Den Den Mushi. She has Rocketman running again, and it's making its way to the Courthouse. Kokoro tells the Straw Hats to get ready to jump into the abyss. The Straw Hats are confused at first, but once they hear Rocketman's whistle, Luffy realizes what's happening. He stretches his arms to envelop the others and takes the leap off the Courthouse roof. As the Straw Hats and Franky fall, Rocketman appears at the drawbridge and speeds upward at full tilt, flying off the end and into the air. Luffy steers himself and the rest of the Straw Hats to land atop the midair Rocketman, and the train manages to catch Franky on its dented nose. Rocketman continues its flight, and Spandam (to his horror) and CP9 (to their delight) realize it's going to make it. Kokoro contemplates a sense of deja vu. Many years ago, Tom's Workers built a ship for a certain audacious pirate by the name of Gold Roger. And today, here are Tom's Workers helping another audacious pirate in Luffy.

Rocketman crashes into the front wall of the Tower of Justice. Spandam orders Rob Lucci to accompany him and Robin to the Gates of Justice, and tells the rest of CP9 to destroy the Straw Hat Pirates. He summons Funkfreed, and the elephant morphs into a sword. He tells Robin that the sword was imbued with the power of the Zou Zou no Mi Devil Fruit.
Franky makes it to the remains of Rocketman and pulls out Kokoro, Chimney and Gonbe. Although he frets over them a moment, they awaken with only nosebleeds for injuries. Luffy then jumps out of the rubble, and orders the rest of his crew to do the same. Sanji remarks that, while Luffy may be a rubber man, the rest of the crew couldn't possibly be okay after an entrance like that. Then he, Chopper, Sogeking, Zoro, and Nami pop out of the ruins as if nothing happened. Franky says the entire crew is weird.
The crew prepare to begin the battle, but are stopped by Fukurou. He says Robin is already on her way to the Gates of Justice, and CP9 have been ordered to stop them. He reveals that each of the present CP9 members has a key to Seastone handcuffs. One of the keys will open Robin's handcuffs, but he won't say who has the correct key. Nami explains the effect of Seastone on Devil Fruit users to Franky, and Chopper notes that's why Robin wasn't fighting back.
Luffy tries to hit Fukurou, but he uses Soru to dodge, then escapes with Geppo. Before he departs, Fukurou says the Straw Hats will have to fight CP9 for the keys, or they will throw the keys into the ocean. Zoro and Sogeking hold back an eager Luffy while Sanji figures out a battle plan. He allows Luffy to go ahead and catch up with Robin. The remaining six will take the other members of CP9 at the Tower of Justice. Chimney and Gonbe run off, and explore a secret passageway. Although briefly frightened by bats, they hear Spandam in the distance. As he gloats about the Straw Hats not even knowing how to get to the Gates of Justice, the child and rabbit decide to shadow him. Luffy is shown running a maze of staircases before Spandam is shown at a mechanical gate to an underwater passage toward the Gates of Justice. 
Franky looks for a kitchen, hoping to recharge on cola before he begins the fight. He reaches the kitchen, but is intercepted by Fukurou. In a dungeon-like hallway, Nami is met by Kumadori, but initially all he does is stomp his staff on the ground in a kabuki display. Sogeking checks the rooms of another hallway, and finds Jabra asleep in a garden room, with key #1 luckily out in the open. Sanji enters a bathhouse room, and is closed in by Kalifa. She offers him tea, and he is quickly smitten by her beauty.
The episode ends with Zoro finding Kaku in the library. Kaku notes Zoro has already drawn his swords. Zoro responds that they're thirsty for blood.

The initial confrontations between the Straw Hat Pirates and CP9 continue to develop. Kumadori continues his kabuki showboating before Nami. Deciding she is at a disadvantage, Nami simply asks for the key. Although he offers to show it, he seems to have misplaced it, to Nami's irritation. In the bathhouse room, Sanji opines that the water Kalifa is using to make tea for them isn't warm enough, and offers his expertise as a chef to make it properly.
Meanwhile, Luffy finally makes it to the point where CP9 was located at their initial confrontation. Naturally, they're not there. He now has to figure out how to get to the Gates of Justice.
Back at the library, Zoro believes Kaku is the one that actually has the key to Robin's handcuffs. Kaku responds he can feel the beastly difference in Zoro's power since their first battle at Galley-La Company headquarters. While Zoro is fearsome, Kaku says he is CP9's best swordsman, and should not be taken lightly. Zoro initially believes him to be of a two-sword style, until Kaku uses Rankyaku slashes from his legs. Kaku states that Rankyaku enables him to use Four Sword Style. Zoro remembers that his training makes Kaku's entire body a weapon.
The first sword exchange between Zoro and Kaku commences, and they clash swords repeatedly. Their first exchange of sword attacks evenly matches Niitoryuu 72-Pound Cannon against Rankyaku Hakurai. Kaku tries to use Soru to get the jump on Zoro, but is defended. A quick retaliatory slash from Zoro barely nicks Kaku's jacket, illiciting a chuckle from him. Zoro says he has no time for jokes. Kaku responds by planting his swords in the ceiling and using Rankyaku Ran to rain a multitude of slashes down at Zoro. After Zoro successfully defends that attack, Kaku decides to unveil his Devil Fruit power, and begins to transform.
In the garden room, Sogeking tries to tiptoe toward Jabra, hoping to take advantage of him sleeping to get key #1 before he notices. But the room seems to be aligning against him. First, his nose is stung by a bee. Then, he feels like his heart stops. Finally, he is confronted by a chicken. But instead of crowing, it chirps, illiciting a facefault from the sniper. Jabra wakes up, and punches Sogeking across the room. He recalls his adversary shooting down the World Government flag, complimenting his shooting ability. He then transforms, revealing he ate the Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Wolf, becoming a wolfman. He offers to end the fight quickly by tearing out Sogeking's throat, but the sniper swallows his fear and prepares to fight.
They are interrupted when the ceiling collapses above them. Down falls Zoro along with a large giraffe. Kaku, trying to morph into his beastman form, instead became a full giraffe. Jabra laughs at his comrade's new form, as Zoro wonders if Enies Lobby is a zoo. While Jabra and Kaku bicker over the latter's new form, courtesy the Ushi Ushi no Mi, Model: Giraffe, Sogeking hides, determining that Zoro might be able to take them both. Looking around, he finds some unused pairs of seastone handcuffs.
Kaku gives his transformation another try, and finds his giraffeman form. This startles Zoro, who says Kaku looks funny. Jabra can't stop laughing, even though he tries. The scene is briefly paused when Sogeking tries to throw a pair of seastone handcuffs at one of the beastmen, but gets it on one of Zoro's wrists instead. He says he was distracted by Kaku's beastman form. Fed up with the mockery, Kaku spins on an arm, then uses a Rankyaku slash from his neck, which shoots all around, an attack he calls Amanedachi. Those present are barely able to dodge.
The attack cuts the Tower of Justice in half, with the top half of the tower sliding off-kilter, exposing the garden room to the sky. Kaku grins at his handiwork, having shut the naysayers up.

After Kaku utilizes his new body to cut the Tower of Justice in half, Sogeking and Zoro realize that they have been handcuffed together, now having to face both Kaku and Jabra together, with a huge disadvantage. Jabra says that Kaku should be ashamed and a professional doesn't let his emotions get the better of him, as Kaku gets offended and Kaku tells Jabra that giraffes are awesome, and he loves them, and Jabra says "Fine. Whatever you say, man." As Chopper finds the two of them running away from the wolf and giraffe, he is told to look for the number 2 key, the key to unlock their cuffs.
Nami escapes Kumadori within an inch of her life losing her jacket, stealing his key in the process, through Chopper's intervention, as Chopper finds the two fighting, on his search for the number 2 key.
Sanji attempts to get the key Kalifa has away from her, but cannot bear the thought of hurting a woman. Attacks are exchanged, but each time Sanji merely pulls back at the last second, so as not to hurt Kalifa. Finally, Kalifa bores of this, and uses her newly acquired powers on Sanji, rendering him helpless. As Nami and Chopper talk about how to get Zoro and Sogeking free, a deformed Sanji is thrown through the ceiling into their room.
As Nami berates him for losing, Sanji tearfully explains that even if he were to die in the process, he would never raise his foot to a woman. Pitying Sanji for having this weakness exploited, Nami vows to defeat Kalifa.

Nami begins to run up the stairs to face Kalifa, when Kumadori stomps in wanting to continue his fight with her. Chopper tells Nami to continue while he faces him. He then transforms into Arm point and attacks Kumadori, telling him that he will be his opponent.
Meanwhile, Chimney and Gonbe save Luffy from drowning, and pump out all the water he took in. Once revived, Luffy goes back to his pursuit of Robin. Not thinking things through, he begins to stretch his arms and grab a hold of a nearby cannon, preparing to launch off of it in hopes that he will fly across the whirlpools. But when Chimney tells him she found another way there, he accidentally falls back into the water again. After being rescued, again, Chimney and Gonbe show him the secret passage they found. She tells him that they were following "that guy with Lucci" (Spandam), Lucci, and "black-haired neechan" (Robin) to that place. After running down the stairs, they came to a pair of giant steel doors. After seeing that a key is needed to open the doors, Luffy told Chimney and Gonbe to stand back. Luffy uses Gear 3 and breaks down the door with tremendous strength. This is the first time Luffy uses the Gear 3 technique, although only his shadow is seen. After the dust cleared, Chimney and Gonbe looked in awe at the huge hole that the door once stood then were surprised that Luffy had been reduced to a Chibi-like form!
Meanwhile, Spandam had heard a huge crash, and is worried. Lucci calmly says that it must have been the pirates breaking through the doorway. Spandam says that was impossible not only because it was a solid steel door, but also because they did not know how to get to door room. Lucci tells him that a girl and her bunny were following them, and Spandam demands to know why he did not stop or attack them. Lucci simply says he did not receive an order to do so. Furious, Spandam tells him that his first priority above all else is to protect his life and to eliminate anyone who gets in his way. Spandam then orders Lucci to take Robin and hurry to the Gates of Justice before the pirates catch up with him. At that same time, Luffy, running down the pathway, returns back to his normal size and speeds ever closer to Robin.
Meanwhile, Nami had just reached the place in the structure where Kalifa was last seen. Before entering the room, she wonders how Sanji ended up like he did now. Then she heard water running from behind the door. She opens it to find Kalifa undressing, seen as a shadow behind a veil, preparing to take a bath.
The scene switches to Franky, who was facing Fukurou. Fukurou was using Soru so that Franky would not be able to catch up with him. Franky finally catches him and throws Fukurou against a wall and uses his Beans Left technique on him. That, however, drains the little remains of his Cola, so he hurried to the kitchen. However, Fukurou suddenly appears before him, unharmed. Franky calls him a coward for running away like this, which annoyed Fukurou enough to have him use his special punch, Jugon, which he claims is faster and stronger than a normal Shigan move. Franky, although knocked back by the attack, stands firm and removes the skin from his right hand, preparing to use his Strong Hammer attack. Fukurou performs Tekkai, and since Franky was low on cola, the attack did little damage. Fukurou punches him again, and Franky tells Fukurou his punches are flimsy. Fukurou disagrees with him, saying Franky's punch was flimsy. Franky said if that was true, then his punch was a paper-punch. Fukurou then said he was just pants.
Then Franky and Fukurou began beating each other up with punches and throwing clothing-related insults at each other. Their fight crashed through the wall into the kitchen. Franky then notices a huge refrigerator in the room. Just then, Chopper and Kumadori crash into the room. Chopper, now in his Heavy Point form, runs out of time on his Rumble Ball use. Kumadori was about to attack, but then Chopper opened up the refrigerator and locked Kumadori inside. Franky yells at him, saying he has business with that refrigerator, but Chopper, like Luffy, still has not Franky for beating up Usopp. Franky tells him that if he wants to save Robin, then he will have to help him out by tossing him Cola out of the refrigerator, which will power him up.
Fukurou, now getting angrier by the minute, uses his Jugon Ougi (Jugon Secret Attack) to make duplicates of himself and repeatedly punch Franky. Franky tries to fight back but he's simply too weak. Chopper, accepting that Franky is not an enemy, begins looking for cola in the refrigerator. Chopper opens the fridge quickly enough so that Kumadori does not come out and tosses Franky three bottles of liquid, presumably believing them to be cola. Franky places them in his own mini-fridge and adopts the Fresh Franky persona, with onion-shaped hair. He uses his special Veggie-punch on Fukurou, but it does no damage. After being hit with another Jugon attack, Franky throws the bottles back at Chopper, telling him that it was Vegetable juice and he needs to look in the refrigerator for cola.
Chopper opens the fridge again and tosses Franky three more bottles. This time, Franky's hair turns wavy and he sits back and talks calmly, adopting a farmer persona. He says working on the fields have been hard work and that they should stop the fighting and simply have some tea. Franky then snaps out of it and again throws the bottles of tea at Chopper, who was thoroughly entertained by Franky's persona. Franky says he has no other personalities and says he will only take Cola. Chopper then tosses him 3 more bottles, which are definitely Cola. Franky jumps to get them, but Fukurou, trying to prevent him from using the cola to power up, uses his Rankyaku technique on him. Franky is knocked to the ground, but after the smoke clears it is seen that Franky had placed the bottles of cola inside him and has powered up!
Franky then walks slowly toward Fukurou, with his fists up, telling him to get ready. Fukurou laughs it off, assuming the next punch will be just as weak. Franky uses his Strong Hammer move, which knocks Fukurou through three walls and outside, against the outermost rail of Enies Lobby. Fukurou is unable to move and appears to be knocked out. Franky then says that Fukurou was right, the punches he had been delivering were weak.

Now recharged, Franky launches Fukurou through a wall, with a Strong Hammer punch, amazing Chopper. However, the zipper-mouth agent is not down yet, giving rise to Franky using his Franky Destroyer Cannons. Escaping, Fukurou uses Soru, and tries to ambush Franky, only for Chopper to reveal his location.
Angered, Fukurou forces himself and Franky out into the ocean, leaving Chopper unable to help out, due to his Devil Fruit side effects. However, Chopper ends up having more important things to deal with, as Kumadori releases himself from the fridge.
Franky and Fukurou each try to send the other into the waterfall, resulting finally in Franky using Strong Right to secure himself to Fukurou, and take him down with him. Desperate to save himself, Fukurou uses Geppou, but Franky holds on, making the condition that the fight can continue on shore, as long as Fukurou uses Geppou to get them both to safety. After a boastful spar of words, both say that they have a move that will finish things off once and for all.
As Sogeking and Zoro still try to escape Jabra and Kaku, Sogeking tries to use the CP9 agents' rivalry against them, by invoking arguments between them, trying to make them fight over who's better. Zoro, however, spoils this, by saying exactly what Sogeking must be planning. Zoro then suggests that to get free, they play Janken, the stakes being that the loser has their hand chopped off, to which Sogeking greatly opposes. Finally, Zoro thinks up another plan, and decides to fight with Sogeking in his right hand against Kaku and Jabra, with Sogeking holding the katana Zoro cannot use in his trapped hand, in essence using Sogeking as a replacement katana.
As Fukurou continues to take himself and Franky into the air, he decides to finish things quickly by using Tekkai Dama to spin Franky into the Tower of Justice. Franky uses a combination of Franky Centaur and Coup de Vent to keep things stable, and finally uses another, more powerful Coup de Vent to send Fukurou into the ground with full force, winning his fight with a victorious "SUPER!"

After a recap of the previous episode, we see Zoro attempting to fight with Sogeking hanging onto one of his katana. Both Kaku and Jabra are not threatened by this in the least. When Zoro tries to attack them, Sogeking keeps twitching, and Zoro misses with each of his attacks, which results in Sogeking getting beaten. Zoro says they have no other choice besides using Janken to see who has to have their hand cut off and go find Chopper, while Sogeking yells out for Chopper to hurry.
Meanwhile, Chopper and Kumadori are facing each other in the kitchen. Kumadori has just eaten a lot of food and broke out of the refrigerator, and is now very fat. Chopper sighs, commenting that he takes bad care of his body. Kumadori says to him there's no need to worry, repeatedly, much to the annoyance of Chopper. Kumadori then proceeds to use Seimei Kikan (Life Feedback) to change to weight of his body, first losing much weight (using Shouka, meaning digest) then gaining some weight (using Kyushu, meaning 'absorb'), returning to his normal weight size using Moto Douri. Chopper is simply amazed by this, and asks if he could do it again. He does so, going back to fat, then through the process again. Chopper, even more amazed, asks him to do it again. He does it once more, but is a bit exhausted afterward.
Chopper wants to know how he did it. Kumadori gladly explains that after 1,000 years of training at sea and on mountains, breathing the wind and drinking the pure water, he passed the training of Sennin (Master). Enduring it all gave him the ability of Seimei Kikan. He then goes on to say that all humans, from the hair on their heads to the bottom of their toes, can concentrate their sense and stretch them to their limit, having complete control over their body. Chopper claims he read something about this in a book once, and also adds that this would be the reason why his hair acts like an octopus. Kumadori, deeply offended, shouts at him, telling Chopper to call him a lion.
Kumadori then proceeds to attack Chopper with Seimei Kikan Kamishibari (Life Feedback Hair Strangle), and then his hair moves erratically, attempting to grab Chopper. After a while of chasing, Kumadori uses Soru (to shave) to move above Chopper and attacks him with Shigan Cue (Cue Finger Gun), using his staff instead of his finger. Luckily, Chopper moves out of the way in time, but is surprised, as the staff wasn't even sharp. Chopper tries to fight back with his Heavy Point form, but Kumadori uses Tekkai (iron mass) to nullify the attack. Chopper realizes he can't defeat Kumadori unless he uses his other forms. But, since his Rumble Ball limit is six hours, and he already took a Rumble Ball, taking one now would do severe damage to his body. Also, after taking a second Rumble Ball, the transformations get messed up and out of control; and after taking a third one, he loses consciousness and fighting would be out of the question.
Then, Kumadori lights the end of his staff on fire, and attacks with Shishi Kebab. Throwing his staff around, he quickly lights the entire kitchen on fire. Chopper, seeing no other opinion, uses the Rumble Ball, thinking the risks are high, but there's still a chance.
Chopper then turns around at attempts to attack with Horn Point, but changes into Guard Point instead. Kumadori knocks him away with his flaming staff. After bouncing around for a moment, Chopper tries to transform into Jumping Point, but changes into Heavy Point instead. Kumadori knocks Chopper all the way back through a wall. Chopper, while lying on the ground, realizes he can't control the transformations, but if he can just get Arm Point to come out, he could hit Kumadori with his ultimate attack. The room is on fire (Kumadori had just blow out the fire that was on his staff), and Chopper can't afford to waste any more time on a guy that doesn't even have a key. He had to find the number 2 key, so he can unlock Zoro and Sogeking's handcuffs, and free them. Then he remembers, he's here to fight for his friends, to rescue Robin. Kumadori then uses Seimei Kikan to turn his hair into many pointing hands. Chopper, not backing down, charges right at Kumadori as Kumadori attacks with Shishi Shigan (Lion Finger Gun), and proceeds to beat up Chopper.
Chopper, now full of small holes from Kumadori's Shigan attack, falls over, while Kumadori says he will not show mercy, as a lion would not permit it. Chopper's body hurts, not just from the attack, but also from the effects of the Rumble Ball. Since he has seven transformations, the odds of turning into Arm Point are one out of seven. If he can just get it, he can hit Kumadori with his strongest attack, hopefully ending the battle. With that notion, Chopper charges in, trying to change into Arm Point, but each time he fails (first time changing to Brain Point, then to Walk Point, then to Jumping Point). All this time, Kumadori keeps attacking with Shishi Kebab, hitting him almost every time. Then suddenly, Chopper changes into Arm Point without even realizing it. Without a second to spare, Chopper quickly attacks with Kokutei Roseo Michieri (Carving Hoof Sakura (Cherry Blossom) Snow-Storm). Kumadori uses Tekkai Gou (Strong Iron Mass), but Chopper attacks, breaks through it and does massive damage.
Chopper had no more energy left, and fell down. Kumadori at first falls to his knees, commenting on the beautiful sakura blizzard. But then, he suddenly gets up in a fit of rage, and attacks Chopper with "the lightning of the lion". After knocking Chopper through a wall, he attacks him with Rankyaku Renge (Storm Leg Lotus Blossom). Just then, Chopper has a flashback of when he was living with Dr. Kureha on Drum Island.
In the flashback, Chopper was resting in bed, while Dr. Kureha asks Chopper what he had done. Chopper couldn't remember anything, but Dr. Kureha said that wasn't good enough. She told Chopper he had burned down an entire town (though no one died), and the entire island is in an uproar about what had happened while Chopper was asleep. Now, Dr. Kureha said she doesn't mind Chopper experimenting, like his father (referring to Dr. Hiriluk), but Chopper had to take careful consideration before carrying one out. She then goes on to tell Chopper that a doctor always has a person's life in their hands. A small mistake can turn into something you can't take back. And if he doesn't have the brain to take in such consideration, then he might as well quit being a doctor right then and there. Chopper, in tears, said he was sorry, and he would never do it again. Dr. Kureha just told him to hurry up and get better.
Back in the present, Chopper is getting more and more beat up by Kumadori. Kumadori then grabs Chopper with his hair then began to take careful aim for the final blow. Just as Kumadori used Yana Gin Jou (Pure Oak Ferment), Chopper changes into his Brain Point form and, because he is desperate to try and save his friends, took a Rumble Ball for a third time. He mentally apologizes to his friends, knowing this will make him lose control over himself.
As he began to transform, a flashback occurs, explaining what had happened to Chopper back then. Chopper says he took three Rumble Balls and lost consciousness. Dr. Kureha says one could call it the rampage of the Devil Fruit, a terrible power that destroys allies, enemies, and also his own body. It was almost as though he was an actual Monster. Chopper slowly morphs into a form much more threatening than any other he has ever demonstrated. Kumadori looks on in complete terror as the reindeer grows into a humongous goliath towering over his flames. His eyes are glowing a bright, primal blue, and there is no sign of Chopper's intellect in control- only the wild wrath of a beast about to begin a terrible rampage. Monster Chopper roars loudly.

In the Edo period-based alternate reality Grand Jipangu, the small girl Rika takes an ill person, whom everyone calls Tot-san (which means "father" in Japanese), to her house to nurse him back to health. Organized crime boss Buggy the Clown and one of the town's highest officials scheme to get rid of Detective Luffy. Mistaking Rika to be the daughter of Tot-san, Buggy kidnaps her to collect Tot-san's debt. When Luffy comes to rescue her, the high official attempts to exile him for attacking an innocent citizen. Instead, he himself is stripped of his position for joining forces with criminals by the shogun's daughter Vivi.

Kumadori stands in awe at Chopper in his Monster form. He wasn't sure what was going on, but he attempted to defeat him in the name of "Kumadori the Lion".  However, none of his attacks affected Chopper. Finally, Chopper smashed Kumadori against the floor with a single swing of his arm.
Meanwhile, Franky had just retrieved the key from Fukurou (who was still unconscious in the hole), only to find that it wasn't the key needed to unlock Zoro and Sogeking's handcuffs. The key he had was Number 4, and Zoro and Sogeking's handcuffs were Number 2. He thinks to himself, if the guy he beat has 4, and "that guy" (Kumadori) had 3, then the only person left who has the Number 2 key is "that secretary woman" (Kalifa). He's ready to go and help.
Meanwhile, Kalifa is taking a bath within her room, while Nami lies on the floor by the door, soaked in soap. Kalifa taunted her, saying she's free to attack, but Nami could not move. Nami does realize that Kalifa is a Devil Fruit user, and she says that she should lose her power if her body's at least half-submerged in water. Kalifa isn't worried, though, since Nami has lost her power as well; she then proceeds to get out of the tub and dry off/dress up. Nami demands to know what her power is, but Kalifa, somewhat, "dared" her to try and figure it out, saying unraveling the mystery is the best part of fighting a Devil Fruit user. Nami remembers what happened to Sanji, how he became all smooth and shiny. Soon, Nami's power gradually returned, and once her power was back, she attacked Kalifa with Thunder Charged Climate Tact, but Kalifa simply used Soru to move out of the way. However, what Kalifa didn't realize was that there was a cloud formed above her. Nami then attacked with Thunderbolt Tempo, and lightening struck Kalifa where she stood.
However, when the dust cleared, Nami only saw a large bar of soap with CP9 labeled on it. Kalifa had encased herself within the soap to protect her. Nami, surprised, wonder how she did it, but Kalifa again, egged her on to try to figure it out. Thinking it through, Nami questioned if she was a "soap-woman" who ate the "Awa Awa no Mi" (Bubble Bubble Fruit), or something like that. Caught off guard, Kalifa stuttered as she said that even if she did know her power, she still doesn't have a chance of winning (she probably wasn't expecting her to actually figure it out). She then admitted that she was correct; she did eat that fruit, and she has the power to create bubbles (causing Nami to accidentally blurt out that would like to have Kalifa as her secretary, before remembering they are both women). She then proceeded to show off her power by using the bubbles from the bathtub to form Soap Sheep (using her arms as horns). Then she used Hitsuji-Gumo Relax Awa to attack Nami by shooting the bubbles at her. It was at this time Kalifa brought up why Nami lost her power when she entered the room. It was then Nami realized that the floor was covered with bubbles, and that it was the bubbles that caused her to lose her power. One cloud of bubbles hit Nami, clinging to her as she fell to the floor. She began to lose her strength as Kalifa approached her and kicked her towards the wall. However, this caused the bubbles that were attached to Nami to come off, so she used this opportunity to attack with Thunder Ball. However, Kalifa once again used Soru to sneak up behind her.
Once behind Nami, she used Golden Awa (Golden Bubble, "awa" also being a pun on "hour") and began to rub her legs, producing soap as she did so. This made them smooth and shiny, and caused Nami to collapse. Kalifa explained that she can smooth out anything she touched into a nice shine. Though it frightened Nami, Kalifa acted, though, as if it were a good thing, giving her opponent perfectly smooth skin; she further states that she will not stop until Nami's entirety falls under her power's influence.
Meanwhile, back in the kitchen, Kumadori was badly beaten and bruised, barely able to stand. Chopper did not have a single scratch on him. Chopper raised his arm for another beating. Kumadori used Tekkai, but it was no use. Meanwhile, on the outside, Franky just scaled the wall and reached the level where the kitchen was. There was a huge bang, and Chopper walked up, dragging Kumadori by the head. Franky was shocked to see Chopper like this, and perhaps just as much to see Kumadori beaten so badly. Chopper then tossed Kumadori all the way over to the Courthouse like a rag doll. Franky didn't even recognize Chopper at first, but then he saw the hat Chopper always wears. When he asked him if he was the same person, Chopper attacked Franky. Meanwhile, over at the Courthouse, many Marines and Government officials were shocked to see that Kumadori had been tossed all the way from the Tower of Justice. Back at the Tower of Justice, Franky lay flat on the ground, wondering what the hell is going on, while Chopper climbs up the side of the tower.
Meanwhile, in a long tunnel leading to the Gates of Justice, Robin hears chopper howls and stops for a moment. Rob Lucci stops and looks back at her, then Spandam, who tells Lucci to drag Robin along. Spandam then tells her that there's no way "those lousy pirates" can save her. They are almost at the Bridge of Hesitation, which leads directly to the Gates of Justice. Once she's beyond the gates, the only thing she will feel is the pain of her sins; the sin of living until that day. He then proceeds to laugh in her face and continue onward, until Luffy yells out "ROBIN!" so that the entire tunnel could hear him. Robin looked back, smiling that Luffy has come to rescue her. Lucci gave an evil grin, showing that he's been waiting for Luffy to arrive. Spandam began to panic, sputtering like crazy until Lucci calmed him down. He told Spandam to take Robin and continue to the Gates of Justice. Luffy, in the meantime, arrived at another door, although this one was wooden, unlike the last one. He easily broke through it, and found none other than Lucci waiting for him on the other side. 

After Kumadori's defeat, Chopper goes on a wild frenzy in his Monster form, knocking Franky over in the process. In the tunnel, Spandam gloats to Robin that once they cross the Gates of Justice, Robin's hopes will be dashed. Luffy calls out to Robin forcing Spandam to take Robin the rest of the way. Luffy then confronts Lucci in a storage room.
In the storage room, Lucci admires the Straw Hat captain's skill and Luffy couldn't have done so without his friends.
Meanwhile, Chopper climbs the tower while Zoro is still bound to Usopp at a disadvantage against Kaku and Jabra. In Kalifa's bathroom, Nami's legs have been rendered softened leaving her weak. The CP9 reminds Nami she could make sacrifices to make beauty. However, Nami hopes to turn the fight around. Franky wakes up to give chase to Chopper.
Kashii and Oimo continue to hold the line blaming them for lying to them. In their efforts, Kashii is distracted by cannons and brought down by the Marines. The Galley-La workers soon find themselves surrounded by Marines. On a long staircase, Spandam pulls out a Transponder Snail trying to call in CP9, but Robin sees it's the Golden Transponder Snail, the very same one that obliterated Ohara. Then, the Marines think Aokiji activated the signal and it would take them 30 minutes to arrive.
Spandam reminds Robin that in order to assure she gets handed to the Government, he activated the Buster Call, as he is willing to make sacrifices in the name of justice. Robin tells her captor of what happened in Ohara years ago. With the Pluton blueprints burned, all he has is Robin. Spandam learns his Transponder Snail's still up. He attempts to impersonate Luffy, but Robin issues evacuation orders before Spandam disconnects. Meanwhile, the other CP9 agents Lucci, Kaku, Kalifa and Jabra vouch to finish things up quickly. The Marines and agents begin to evacuate leaving the Galley La workers and Franky Family members behind and tied up.
With time running out, Zoro intends to remember using Usopp as the Nose Storm sword. Luffy and Lucci begin their fight with the agent's head being flung off. The two begin to exchange blows with none seemingly breaking through. With the storage room wrecked, Luffy attempts to brush his way through as he calls out to save his friend.

Spandam continues to drag Robin along the way to the Gates of Justice who tries to talk him out of the Buster Call. He hopes that when he turns her over, Spandam will get a promotion. He also reminds her that Luffy is fighting Lucci and will likely lose.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Lucci continue their duel in the storage room and the pirate tries to throw his enemy aside, however Lucci kicks Luffy away from the door that will lead him to Robin. He also stops a crate from hitting him and dodges Luffy's rapid punches. Lucci continues to dominate the fight.
The Marines and agents continue running for their lives while Chimney spots that the Enies Lobby tower is all crocked. She tells Kokoro of the secret route she and Luffy took.
Elsewhere, Kalifa prepares more bubbles and uses the Shave to take Nami by surprise. She continues to soften up Nami. With her body slippery, she can't even use the Clima-Tact. Kalifa thinks she made the Straw Hat navigator beautiful and attempts a Tempest Kick on her. But what hit was a fake. A mirage had been created by Nami. Kalifa frantically tries to hit Nami but keeps hitting decoys. Just then, Chopper bursts through in his Monster form.
Kaku and Jabra attempt to take down Usopp and Zoro before the Buster Call arrives. As they fight, Zoro knows the two CP9 agents are afraid of the Nose Sword. The Straw Hat swordsman decided a killer attack; Alure. Kaku and Jabra think Zoro is trying to bait them and charge. Zoro attacks but the two dodge.
On Kalifa and Nami's fight, Kalifa thinks Chopper is the latter, but Nami spots that the reindeer and hardly recognized him. The CP9 female agent tries to hit the doctor. Nami tries to talk sense into Chopper but he continues his rampage. A bath thrown by Chopper lands on Sanji hard and the monstrous reindeer continues his rampage. Kalifa then tries another Tempest Kick but even in her slippery state, Nami dodges. Suddenly, the slipperiness wears off because of the water from the bath. Nami attempts to get to the leaking water, but Kalifa stands in her way.
Kalifa continues to hold Nami at her mercy, but Nami deploys Cloudy Tempo and summons Rain Tempo, washing all the softness form Nami. She then cools down the area. Nami then deploys a number of illusions, a fat Nami, a burly Nami, a skinny Nami and a shot Nami. With this, Nami prepares her final blow.

The fight between Nami and Kalifa climaxes. Kalifa sweeps the room with a tidal wave of power-draining bubbles to counter Nami's illusions. Barely escaping, Nami manages to prepare and release her finishing blow in the form of a horizontal lightning bolt.
Franky, who had followed Chopper in climbing up the walls of the Tower of Justice, arrives as she is about to retrieve Kalifa's key. A moment's discussion later, they conceive of a plan. They follow Chopper into the room where Zoro and Sogeking, still cuffed together, try to fight Kaku and Jabra. There, Franky uses his air pressure cannon to blast Chopper outside and into the sea, while Nami uses Kalifa's key to release Zoro and Sogeking from their shackles.

Franky manages to get Tony Tony Chopper out of the sea and has completely returned back to normal. Chopper, who is unconscious, gets the water blown out of him by Franky. As he is doing so, he is interrupted by Chimney and Gonbe who lets him know that they know how to get to the Gates of Justice. They head over to the gates, finding Kokoro there. Kokoro informs them that Chopper is okay, but still unconscious After realizing that Nico Robin is still in danger, Franky runs off.
Roronoa Zoro continues fighting Kaku after being freed from his handcuffs. Usopp and Nami watch without knowing Jabra was with them watching Zoro and Kaku fight. Usopp, offers to fight Jabra, but Jabra declines and drops the key for Usopp to take. Usopp, falling for his tricks tries to pick up the key but is blown away by an attack from Jabra. Nami runs over to the injured Usopp and sees if he is alright. Usopp tries to attack Jabra, and it seems to have hit him, but Jabra appears right behind Usopp, strikes him, and hits him with a barrage-like attack. Nami runs towards them trying to help, but is blown out by Jabra. He threatens to kill Usopp and almost succeeds, but is then kicked away by Sanji, sending him flying towards the wall. Sanji then informs the others that the Gates of Justice were opening.
The fight between Rob Lucci and Monkey D. Luffy continues, with Luffy being frustrated he cannot get past Lucci. Luffy is thrown at crates when trying to attack Lucci who but blocks all of his attacks. Luffy confidently stands back up, despite being exhausted. Robin is dragged up the stairs by Spandam by her hair, who wants to get Robin to the Gates of Justice as quickly has possible, before anyone caches up to him. Franky continues running down the hall to the Gates of Justice, hoping that both of the keys he has will free Robin before she gets to the Gates of Justice. Behind them, Chimney follows him painting arrows down the hall. Gonbe, Kokoro, and Chopper follow them with Chopper tied to Kokoro's back. The fight between Zoro and Kaku intensifies with both of them blowing consecutive attacks at each other. Marines, desperately trying to get off Enies Lobby, fill up the Puffing Tom and the rest have to find another way out. The Franky Family gets freed by Paulie, and try to escape. The Marine Battleships depart for Enies Lobby. Sanji gets ready to fight Jabra to get his key. Sanji also encouraged Usopp to get Robin back.

With the Gates of Justice about to open, Sanji believes the Straw Hat Pirates can still save Nico Robin if Usopp does something. Sanji implores Usopp to leave while he faces off with Jabra. The cook tries to take Jabra's Iron Body Kenpo but is knocked back. Just then, Usopp gets an idea to rescue Robin. Before Jabra can give chase, Sanji kicks the wolf-man in the face. Jabra gets up and tries a Ten Finger Pistol, but the cook dodges and retaliates with a Troisieme Hachis barrage.
Sanji then continues to pummel Jabra with a number of kicks but is unable to pierce the Iron Body that the wolf-man has. When Sanji does the Deuxieme Hachis, it seems to work at first, but Jabra gets back up and knows that the cook is his worthy opponent. The wolf then appears to surrender his key and explains that Robin is his sister. Sanji is perplexed while Jabra tells his story on the West Blue. It seemed like they were happy on the beach when a pirate crew kidnapped Robin. He learned that Robin had escaped and was being hunted by the law. Before Sanji can take the key, Jabra prepares to take him by surprise, but Sanji knows it was all fabricated, so he will kick him twice as hard. Meanwhile, Spandam drags Robin back up the stairs, expecting her to get back up.
Rob Lucci knows that Monkey D. Luffy is not going to get past him, but Luffy tries a number of Gomu Gomu techniques only to get repulsed. Jabra frees himself from where Sanji kicked him and spots that the blonde man had taken the key. Sanji decides to run off and the CP9 wolf-man gives chase but is constantly knocked away. Then, Jabra decides to do his Wolf Hunt High-Speed Scratch to retake the advantage against Sanji. He then blasts Sanji with the Lupus Fall.
This time, Sanji intends to stand his ground and builds up his rage. Jabra kicks the cook back with the Devil Wolf technique. Sanji then spins around until his right foot sets on fire. This is Diable Jambe which would pierce the Iron Body. Jabra begins to feel intense pain from the Diable Jambe hitting him. Jabra jumps high and does the Moonlight Ten Finger Pistol piercing the cook. But Sanji does one last kick, Flambage Shot sending Jabra falling to the ground. With their fight over, Sanji walks away.

The episode begins just after Sanji's fight with Jabra ends, with Zoro's fight with Kaku just heating up with the two fighters clashing with such power that the tower starts to slide again causing Sanji to wonder if they are trying to collapse the tower. As he avoids the debris, he notices the sign Nami left before and decides to head after them.
Back with Robin and Spandam, they have unfortunately arrived at the Bridge of Hesitation, and they now see the gates which are now wide open. Spandam soon starts to gloat and mock Robin, telling her that once he passes through the gates he will be known as the world's hero but when she (Robin) passes, it'll be like hell. Robin then headbutts him in an attempt to escape but stumbles and trips before she can get far. Spandam then proceeds to taunt and kick Robin with him calling her stupid over and over again. Spandam tells Robin that she cannot escape and to give up by calling her an obstinate cow. He reminds her that he is the hero of the world, and he is different than her and better than her. Spandam says while he gets a bright future ahead, Robin is condemned to die without a shred of hope. He tells Robin that she is nothing but a steppingstone to her. He asks "Have I finally gotten that through your thick skull? Or do I need to keep grinding it in for you?" and then he laughs evilly. Franky is then seen running through the tunnel when he sees a light. We then see the Buster Call with one of the lesser members saying that their time for arrival is 10 minutes. Franky then arrives in the room where Luffy and Lucci are fighting. While Luffy is holding on to Lucci, Franky tells him that he got him, and tells him to hold him there and he will shoot him. Luffy tells Franky that he would take care of him and to go and to leave Lucci to him. Franky tells Luffy that he needs to get serious and to work as a team on the battle, and Luffy said that this is his battle and he can't lose to him, and he tells Franky to leave and find Robin right now and he is counting on him.

After many failed attempts, Zoro finally cuts Kaku using his new technique, Asura, after Kaku begins to insult Robin. Shortly afterwards, their fight climaxes, as both combatants use their ultimate techniques. The victor is Zoro. On the other side of the raging waters, on the Bridge of Hesitation, Spandam continues to drag Robin along. Fear strikes her as the end of the bridge, which for her marks the point of no return, comes into sight. She pulls herself free and runs away. Spandam pursues and recaptures her, but she holds on to the rim of the bridge with her teeth. Below them, Franky tries in vain to force his way past the much more powerful Rob Lucci. As Franky is on the verge of being killed, Luffy activates Gear 2 and attacks Lucci, allowing Franky to slip by.

With the Gates of Justice opened to allow Spandam and Robin passage, the Marines and agents continue racing for their lives and they are surprised. Meanwhile, Kashii and Oimo continue carrying the Galley La workers, the Franky Family, and Sodom and Gomorrah while running away from the Buster Call. They all cheer Luffy and Franky on.
Luffy, still in Gear Second, stands before Lucci, who is still in half-leopard form. The Straw Hat captain shows his determination to defeat Lucci, while Franky races towards Robin.
Spandam has loosened Robin's teeth grip on the bridge and the marines ready themselves to welcome Spandam. The CP9 chief looks on with pride as he had set a landmine to blow up the stairs and anyone trying to climb them. He then continues to drag Robin by rope who tries to tell her captor she's not going through. The CP9 chief assures the entire Straw Hat crew will be vaporized by the Buster Call just like Ohara was. He goes on to tell her that Spandine commanded the mission to Ohara. Spandam also tells of how Robin led a life on the run from the World Government.
Robin assures that Ohara's legacy will not die as long as she lives. Just then, Franky suddenly detonates the mine. Spandam gloats how he is about to go down in history.
When all seems lost for Robin, a projectile suddenly hits Spandam, shocking the scholar. The Marines are perplexed trying to find the shooter. As the Marines are picked off, Robin looks surprised as Usopp as arrived standing on the Tower of Law.
Spandam is then shot himself and Robin makes a run for it. The Marines almost shoot her to stun her when Franky blocked the bullets with his steel body. Usopp then contacts Franky that the keys have been brought to uncuff Robin. It takes a couple of seconds, but Franky frees Robin at last.
Spandam screams in horror that all of his agents have been defeated. Usopp assures Robin that the Straw Hats will be happy to accept her back. She then takes her frustration out on Spandam with the Seis Fleur and Slap, rapidly slapping Spandam before smashing his face in. Franky then contacts his new friends via Den Den Mushi that it's time to make their escape plan. Just then, Usopp hears a whirring sound and the Buster Call ships arrive to begin the bombing run.

Freed from her sea stone handcuffs by Franky, Robin returns to her normal self. With no way back, the two decide to capture the ship Spandam had intended to use to bring Robin to the Marine headquarters. Unfortunately, Vice-Admiral Doberman, one of the respondents to the Buster Call, arrives. His battleship takes a shot at the stockade and blows a hole in it. The next attack by Doberman is shooting at the Tower of Justice, causing its already broken upper half to crush down into the waterfall. Usopp narrowly escapes as it crashes into the abyss below and demolishes the damaged drawbridge with it. Zoro and Sanji realize that because the Gates of Justice are fully open, the waterfalls surrounding the island have vanished because the water current no longer has to go around them. This will allow the battleships to take a clear path into Enies Lobby. The resulting loud noise created reaches Luffy and Rob Lucci beneath the Bridge of Hesitation. Luffy's use of Gear 2 begins to take a toll on him. He pants heavily throughout its activation, and then Gear 2 completely wears off during his fight. Lucci figures out Luffy is doping his blood by using his legs as pumps-a move that would cause a normal person's heart to explode from the excess blood pressure. It is a move only Luffy can use due to the resilience of his unique rubber inner organs, but it risks shortening his lifespan. Luffy does not care about the damage he is doing to his body if CP9 is going to tear apart his life by taking his friends away, and yells at Lucci for making light of his crew's dire situation as if it were a game. Anticipating that the Straw Hats would emerge through the underground passage, Lucci tears a hole into a wall of the underwater chamber, flooding it and the passage. Meanwhile, Nami catches up to Kokoro, the unconscious Chopper, Chimney, and Gonbe in the passageway, with Zoro and Sanji about to do the same, none knowing a torrent of water is headed straight for them. Spandam desperately calls on all the Marines he can find to save his skin and try to stop Robin from escaping, but she and Franky easily defeat the reinforcements. However, both sides are now out of time. From the horizon, the rest of the Buster Call ships arrive and target the entire island, only ignoring Nico Robin on orders from Admiral Aokiji. Oimo and Kashii flee Enies Lobby with the Galley-La shipwrights and the Franky Family in tow as cannon fire wastes the judicial island. Robin looks on with great fear as her old nightmare comes back for revenge.

The episode starts with the narrator announcing the Spring has come, and some excited villagers, including Zoro, discussing the upcoming celebration of blooming of the sakura, which takes place once a year. Meanwhile, Chopper and Luffy are seen with Ninjin lying in bed feeling sick, and Chopper concludes he is too sick to move and better rest; Tamanegi and Piiman are disappointed with it, as they all wanted to visit the Hanami together.
All the Straw Hat Pirates are seen in their cafeteria, with Nami, Usopp and Sanji discussing the selling rate increase, and Luffy and Chopper feeling sorry for the fact Ninjin is sick and has to skip the festival. Luffy then states he would just like to find a way to show Ninjin the thousand-year sakura. Then both Luffy and Chopper leave, with Nami noting Luffy did not even finish his meal.
The day of the Hanami festival has finally arrived, and the people who gathered for its celebration note the sakura has been stolen. Usopp then remembers Luffy's words and starts suspecting him to be the thief. He then visits Nami and Sanji's cafeteria and shares his theory with them. This completely enrages Nami, and she orders Usopp and Sanji to find the thief immediately. They then proceed to look for Luffy (during this segment, Wanze is seen in the background showing the peace sign to the audience).
Usopp and Sanji finally find Luffy in Ninjin's house, who's showing him a branch of sakura, which Usopp assumes is an evidence of Luffy's theft. He then starts interrogating Luffy, who denies all the accusations. Meanwhile, Robin spots the sakura tree on a pirate ship and quickly notifies the Straw Hats about it, who rush to the location.
It is then revealed that the theft of the sakura tree is a combined effort by Buggy and Foxy, and that they made an agreement that Buggy would steal the tree for Foxy for 10,000,000. However, Foxy then reveals he lied to Buggy, which prompts the latter to fire a Buggy Ball, only to be slowed down by Foxy's Noro Noro no Mi's ability. Luffy, Sanji and Usopp finally arrive to the ship and confront Buggy, who gets punched by Luffy while affected by the Noro Noro Beam, which confuses the Straw Hats, as they seem to be unaware of Foxy's powers. Foxy then uses the Noro Noro Beam to slow down both Sanji's and Usopp's attacks. Suddenly, Zoro appears, who is revealed to be sleeping all this time on the sakura tree. Foxy then attempts to use the beam on Zoro as well, but he instead parries it with his sword, reflecting it onto Buggy, who had just used the Bara Bara Festival, thus slowing him down. Zoro then punches Foxy, who immediately afterwards sustains Sanji's and Usopp's attacks, which he had previously slowed down. Luffy then delivers the exclamation point, punching Foxy with the Gomu Gomu no Pistol (while holding a sword in his hand), which sends Foxy flying. Sanji then spots Buggy, who is still under the effects of Noro Noro Beam, with Luffy punching away at him with a Gomu Gomu no Gatling Gun (while still holding a sword in his hand), which sends the separate body-parts of Buggy flying as well.
The Straw Hats then retrieve the sakura tree, carrying it on Foxy's ship, so all the villagers, including Ninjin, can witness it, which helps Ninjin recover almost immediately. Chopper starts wondering if the effects of his own medicine have finally taken effect, but then acknowledges that the sight of the sakura tree has cured Ninjin.

We recap to the point the Buster Call shoots the Tower of Justice. It's revealed that Sogeking fell from the struck section and into the base of the tower where Sanji and Zoro were located, avoiding falling with the rest of the section into the abyss. Meanwhile, on the Bridge of Hesitation, Franky and Nico Robin (just freed from her cuffs) prepare to fight their way past Spandam and the Marines to reach a getaway ship. At the same instant, Luffy is still fighting Rob Lucci in the first column. Lucci has just used a Rankyaku to start flooding the column and the underground tunnel with seawater, meaning anyone attempting to catch up to them will drown, enraging Luffy.
Robin sees the arrival of the Buster Call and falls to her knees in shock while Spandam tries to calm the Marines seeking to flee its wrath. The Buster Call begins its attack on Enies Lobby's Main Island. Their main objective is to stop Luffy and company, and they'll destroy Enies Lobby to do it. Franky is stunned at this "total madness," but as he turns he sees Robin clutching herself, frozen in fear. She recalls how the Buster Call was just as merciless in leveling her home of Ohara, and now she is witnessing its terrifying force for a second time.
Sanji, Zoro, Sogeking, Kokoro, Nami, Chimney, and Gonbe make their way through the tunnel in two groups. In the rear, Sanji and Zoro are carrying an injured and slung Sogeking. Ahead, Chimney recounts to Kokoro and Nami how Luffy broke the heavy steel door earlier using a new technique called Gear 3. While effective, the attack apparently resulted in Luffy shrinking into a tiny form for a time. Chimney then hears something ahead; it's the flood of seawater.
Meanwhile, the first column is itself flooding, forcing Luffy and Lucci to take the fight higher up the column and above the water line. Lucci continues to taunt Luffy about the fate of his crew and friends. But Luffy places his faith in them. While the two groups face the onrush of water, Luffy and Lucci resume fighting, and Lucci's Rokushiki mastery forces Luffy to play his trump card. He activates Gear 3 and reveals his Bone Balloon technique. Biting into his thumb, he inflates the bones in his right arm then transfer the air to his left arm, giving it the size (and power) of a giant, which he proceeds to unleash on Lucci: Gomu Gomu no Gigant Pistol, an attack powerful enough to overwhelm Lucci's Tekkai, blow a massive hole in the first column, and send Lucci flying.

Lucci is nearly unconscious after being hit by Luffy's Gomu Gomu no Giant Pistol, where he reminds himself that he can't afford to fall into the water. He then lands on a ship of the Buster Call, where the Marines are confused and amazed.
On the island, Zoro, Sanji and Sogeting (who is carried by the former) are running through the tunnel seeing that the water is reaching them. But the water appears from the other, where it also chases Nami, Chimney, Chopper and Kokoro. Zoro tries to break through the walls to escape, but the tunnel has been strengthened and cannot be cut and at that moment they are engulfed by water. Meanwhile the island's marines try to escape of the Buster Call in the Sea Train, despite knowing there was no driver.
On a Buster Call ship, where vice admiral Doberman was, he is asked by one of his men what to do with Nico Robin, however he says not to interfere, saying that Rob Lucci would be able to take care of the mission. Meanwhile, on the ship where Rob Lucci was, he manages to get up and transforms back into his human form, where the marines do not recognize him when they see him, so they ask him to identify himself. There a captain present tells them that he was Rob Lucci, for which they apologize to the latter. On the other hand, back with Doberman, he begins to tell his subordinates the story of Rob Lucci.
15 years ago a kingdom was invaded by pirates, where 500 of its soldiers were taken hostage, and the captain demanded to be named the new king of the kingdom.
The desperate king was about to accept the request. However, one of his subjects tells him that a government emissary has arrived. Here appears a 13-year-old Rob Lucci, which angers the king by believing that the World Government was mocking them by sending a child. Lucci approached the king, who asked him to save the soldiers, but the boy told the king not to question the ways of the World Government. This left the king very confused about him, since despite being a child, he was terrified of him.
Later, Lucci entered the pirates' ship and tried to bring justice against them, then everyone laughed and made fun of him and two pirates tried to kill him with their swords; but Lucci blocked it with his Tekkai, leaving the two pirates confused. The captain, astonished, told him warned that if he resisted anymore, the hostages would be killed, and then decided that the boy would be his hostage, so that the World Government would obey them. After he was locked up along with the other hostages, Lucci made sure that all the hostages were there; Then, using his Rokushiki techniques, he brutally murdered the 500 hostages.
While the pirate crew was still enjoying their party, one of the pirates ran out and yelled at his captain about the hostage problem, and the entire crew watched in horror as Lucci had murdered them. After a brief discussion about the justice of the World Government, the captain angrily ordered his crew to shoot Lucci with cannonballs. The captain said Lucci had it coming for putting them down, then complained about how his perfect plan was ruined. However, he saw, to his surprise and horror, that Lucci had survived the explosion; the latter quickly appeared in front of him and killed him with a Shigan barrage. The rest of the crew seeing this was very horrified and scared, so they quickly fled.
In the present, Luffy goes to the ship where Lucci was, so the marines present try to shoot him, but without success. Luffy then uses Gomu Gomu no Gigant Axe, where he destroys the ship and knocks out many of the marines, but Lucci manages to dodge it and attacks him in his full leopard form, biting him on the shoulder. Luffy then uses Gomu Gomu no Gigant Whip and hits the masts of the ship Lucci was on. Lucci attacks Luffy, jumping behind him and kicking him into the ship and launching a Rankyaku which Luffy dodges and cuts through the deck.
Elsewhere, Spandam taunts Franky, telling her that even though they defeated the other members of CP9, Luffy won't be able to defeat Lucci.
On the ship where vice admiral Onigumo is, he is informed that Rob Lucci and Luffy are fighting on ship number 4; he then orders said ship to be fired upon, knowing that Lucci would survive. One of his subordinates, however, tells him that the ship is full of many of his men, but the vice admiral answers by shooting him, to later tell them about justice.

The Straw Hat Pirates are still fighting the Marines, while Luffy holds off Lucci, on the Bridge of Hesitation. Franky is shown firing into a crowd of Marines, which prompts one who is wearing boxing gloves to charge him. Franky easily dispatches him with raw power, throwing him back past the group he is fighting. The Marines are shocked at how strong the pirates are and how they are easily beating the captains of the ships they came from.
As Luffy and Lucci continue their fight, Nami and Nico Robin are shown out of breath and surrounded by Marines. One Marine notes that they should be fine as long as they can avoid Nami's lightning attacks. They then look up and realize there is another cloud above them. Robin has a hand come out of each Marine and slaps them. Nami then warns the Marines to be careful during the second thunderstorm, and unleashes another Thunderbolt Tempo on them, frying the whole group. Standing on the ship close by are Kokoro, Chimney and Gonbe who are seen cheering on Robin and Nami. Chopper is face-up on the deck of the ship, exhausted. Nami says they will leave Chopper's care in their hands before Robin and her take off up the stairs towards Roronoa Zoro, Franky, and Usopp. Chopper expresses his sadness over not being able to fight and wishes everyone good luck.
As Usopp watches Luffy battle Lucci, Marines approach him from behind. He turns and fires his Kabuto at them, but they easily dodge while jumping through the air towards him. Just as Usopp is about to be overrun a Rankyaku from Lucci flies up and takes out the three Marines that were about to attack Usopp. Usopp, who had his eyes closed, looks around to see all the Marines laid out, and promptly declares victory by starting to sing the Sogeking Song.
Franky punches Captain Very Good, only to have him split into many smaller balls because he has eaten the Beri Beri no Mi, and begins making the balls hit Franky from every direction. Zoro steps in front of him and knocks all the attacking balls away. Franky then grabs onto Very Good's head and fires a Weapon's Left behind the head that sends it flying and crashing into the side of a battleship. Franky calls out to the Straw Hats to be careful, since some of these Marines have Devil Fruit powers. Nami and Robin arrive at the same location as Franky, Zoro, and Usopp with Marines in hot pursuit. Robin, answering Franky, says that she is also a Devil Fruit user, and turns around to face the Marines. She uses Clutch to bring down the group.
Zoro then looks over to see a Marine standing there wearing a mask. As Zoro goes to land a strike, the Marine catches his sword, which instantly rusts and turns to dust down to the hilt. The Marine tells Zoro that he is a rust-man who ate the Sabi Sabi no Mi, and that Zoro can not defeat him with swords because he will rust them all. Zoro picks up two Marine swords from the ground before charging to attack. He cuts the Marine, but the sword he used only disintegrates after being turned to rust. The Marine says again that Zoro can not defeat him with a sword, and grabs Zoro's arm and rusts his joints. The Marine begins to rust Zoro's entire body when Usopp launches a Fire Bird Star which hits the Marine and takes him out.
Meanwhile, somewhere inside Enies Lobby, a Marine is shown talking on a Den Den Mushi to another Marine somewhere on the island. As the Marine drops the Den Den Mushi receiver and runs away, Sanji shows up and kicks in the door the guard was protecting. A large lever is revealed, as Sanji lights up a cigarette.
Usopp is looking out with a worried face back towards where Luffy and Lucci are fighting. Usopp yells for Luffy to get up, who is on the ground bloodied and out of breath. Luffy manages to turn his head slightly, realizing that it is Usopp standing there and not Sogeking. Usopp then starts taunting Lucci saying that he has eight thousand followers and others lies that Lucci ignores. Usopp then taunts him, which finally grabs Lucci's attention.
As Lucci starts walking towards Usopp, Luffy tells him to leave Usopp alone and to stop. Lucci tells Luffy that he has no more business with him now that he is defeated, and to just watch from there as he kills all of them. Usopp eggs Lucci on again, telling him that he will send Lucci flying. Luffy tells Usopp to stop and asks if he is crazy because Lucci is going to kill him. Usopp then throws this back in Luffy's face, asking what he is going to do about it when Luffy is so close to death. Luffy struggles to get up, but only coughs up more blood and falls back down. Usopp tells Luffy to stop worrying him. Lucci reaches the edge of the destroyed tower, and asks Usopp if he is finished. To protect his friend from the menace of Lucci, Luffy gets up, ready to fight until he has beaten his opponent. The two of them charge at each other, each unleashing a barrage of punches.
Luffy, about to fall backwards to the ground, remembers his promise not to fall until he beats Lucci. He stands up, arms outstretched, and lets out a blood-curdling yell. Lucci, who is bloodied and breathing heavily, turns his head to see Luffy standing there and is shocked. As he glares back at him, Luffy remembers all the times people claimed that Robin would be the Straw Hats' downfall, including comments from Admiral Aokiji and Lucci himself. Luffy lands a Jet Pistol on Lucci. Lucci flies at him, and he tries a couple more Jet Pistol's, but they miss. Lucci tries to use Rokuogan but Luffy moves away. Just then Lucci's tail grabs Luffy, holding him in place. Lucci uses The Largest Ring: Six King Gun point blank, which devastates Luffy. However, Luffy uses Jet Gatling. Lucci, seeing a huge attack coming, barely has time to use Tekkai and Lucci gets pummeled and slams into the wall. Luffy increases the power of the Jet Gatling even further hitting Lucci so much that he is projected through the wall. As the smoke clears over Tower 1, a Marine gets on the Den Den Mushi loud speaker and reports that Rob Lucci was defeated.

The Marines of the Buster Call are stunned by the announcement of Rob Lucci's defeat. The thought of a pirate able to defeat one believed to be the most powerful, most ruthless Agent of the World Government fills all of them with dread at just what the Straw Hat Pirates are capable of performing. On the other side, the Straw Hats and their ally Franky are all reinvigorated by Luffy's victory, and they begin the push to clear the way for their escape. Suddenly, the Den Den Mushis are filled with voices of congratulations. Usopp suddenly stops and tries to track something with his ears: something familiar. To Franky's joy and relief, the voices are Zambai and the Franky Family along with Paulie and the Dock 1 shipwrights. While they had been surprised by a Buster Call attack and knocked over the edge, Paulie had used his Rope Action to throw up a net. The giants Oimo and Kashii had endured the brunt of the attack, allowing everyone to survive. With the Buster Call focused on the Straw Hats, Zambai assures them they can get away.
Eventually, the Vice-Admirals get the Marines over the shock and the fight resumes on the Bridge of Hesitation. But the Straw Hats and Franky continue their stubborn defense. So, the Buster Call decides to zero in on Luffy: too tired to even move from the spot where he fell in victory. Usopp is the first among the Straw Hats to realize Luffy's problem. First, the Marines destroy the escape ship. Thankfully, Sanji had evacuated Chopper, Kokoro, Chimney, and Gonbe from it before the attack hit. The Straw Hats soon realize the Buster Call is redoubling its efforts and strategically cornering them: even at the expense of their own men. Eventually, they're isolated on the second column: unable to reach Luffy in the first column while the battleships take aim. Just then, Usopp hears that voice again. Soon the rest of the Straw Hats hear it, too, telling them to look down. Usopp finally recognizes it and proposes a bold gambit: jump into the sea. All the Straw Hats wonder what he could be thinking, particularly given Luffy, Robin, and Chopper's mutual problem with the sea. But Usopp insists they jump anyway: they have a friend down there. Once Robin conveys Luffy off the column with Cien Fleur: Delphinium, everyone else jumps. And to their amazement, a friend does wait below them, ready to receive them: the Going Merry.

The Straw Hat Pirates, Franky, Kokoro, Chimney, and Gonbe leap into the sea to find the Going Merry waiting for them. It takes a moment for the Marines of the Buster Call to realize what's happening. As the rope ladder seemingly drops on its own, Sanji and Nami climb aboard. As Zoro carries Chimney and Gonbe up with him, Franky brings Usopp, and Kokoro tosses Luffy, Robin, and Chopper aboard before climbing on, Sanji starts wondering how the Merry got here and who threw down the rope ladder. Many of the Straw Hats are choking back emotion at being back aboard their ship. Even Franky is wondering just how she got here after being dumped from his hideout by CP9. Luffy tries to thank Robin for getting him out of the tower, but a Fleur covers his mouth. Instead it is Robin who thanks everyone for saving her even when she felt she wasn't worth saving. In the emotional exchange, Chopper regains his ability to move. The Straw Hats soon organize and make plans to escape Enies Lobby.
Spandam is livid and orders all guns on the Merry, even if it means killing Robin. Spandam justifies it (falsely) as orders from Aokiji that Robin is to be killed if she cannot be captured. But when the cannons fire, the shot miss the Merry and hit each other instead. Then, two of the ships crash into each other. Eventually, the Marines discover the reason for their loss of control: the Gates of Justice are closing, meaning the whirlpool currents are returning. Usopp then realizes this was the reason for Sanji's absence earlier. He had been in the third tower looking for the gates' operating lever. Thanks to his thinking ahead, they now have a fighting chance.
As the Merry speeds along, Zoro, Sanji, Robin, and Franky fend off cannonballs from the battleships. Eventually, Luffy crawls his way to the stern using his mouth and insists he join in the fight. Eventually, Zoro and Sanji decide to quiet him by stretching his body like a net and using him to catch and return a large salvo of the cannonballs. Eventually, Nami computes a course along the whirlpool currents, allowing them to outrace the cannonballs. Spandam goes into a tirade over how the mightiest force in the world can't defeat one pirate crew and capture one woman. The tirade eventually stops when the "hands" of Nico Robin envelop him and begin to bend him backwards. After all the physical and mental abuse he had inflicted upon her, everyone knew what was coming. With a final, cathartic, "Clutch!", Spandam's spine snaps in two and Robin gets her revenge. Nami then directs Franky to finish their escape. With apologies to the crew and ship, Franky fires his Coup de Vent, launching the Merry clear of the whirlpools, the Buster Call, and Enies Lobby altogether. A final Smoke Star from Usopp ensures they cannot pursue.
Meanwhile, back at the Enies Lobby Front Gate, Zambai, Paulie, and the rest of the invasion force have boarded Puffing Tom and are starting their way back to Water 7. Lulu and Tilestone reflect on what's just happened while Mozu and Kiwi appreciatively cuddle up to Paulie in spite of his protests: resulting in a massive nosebleed from him. Everyone is in high spirits as in spite of bumps, bruises, and broken bones, they have taken on the World Government and made it out alive.
Eventually, Admiral Aokiji makes his way to Enies Lobby personally. The Buster Call is adamant in pursuing the Straw Hats, but Aokiji firmly orders everyone to stand down. There is no way to salvage the day now. The Buster Call is supposed to comprise a force equivalent to that of an entire country, yet their current situation is anything but proud and strong. Two ships are sunk, several more are severely damaged. And Enies Lobby stands a smoldering ruin: one of the great strongholds of the entire World Government destroyed. Something this catastrophic cannot be disguised or sugar-coated. The World Government has suffered a complete and utter defeat this day.
At his insistence, Kokoro positions Luffy at his customary position atop the Merry's figurehead. Luffy thanks Merry for coming to their rescue. He also thanks Franky for helping out. Franky has to appreciate the sheer audacity of the Straw Hats and cautions the World Government will be coming after them with a fervor now, but the Straw Hats don't care. To them, saving their friend was more important than defying the World Government and in this most important regard, they have won.

As they sail away from the smoldering ruins of Enies Lobby, Luffy looks all around the Going Merry for Usopp, wondering who sailed the ship to Enies Lobby to rescue them. He's still being fooled by the Sogeking costume; Usopp shrinks behind it, wondering how long it'll be before Luffy and Chopper figure out that he is Usopp. Sanji tries to get Usopp to admit to the ruse, but he won't. Robin just chuckles knowingly. Sogeking claims that Usopp sailed ahead to Water 7 in another ship. Zoro wonders how they could possibly not realize it's Usopp. Nami is also dumbfounded that nobody else is on Merry.
Zoro and Robin are certain they heard a voice from the ship when they were rescued, but Luffy says it was Merry's voice. But Franky remembers back in Water 7 before the CP9 betrayal, when Usopp told him, Mozu and Kiwi about what happened in Skypiea, how a mysterious figure was seen "fixing" the ship. The figure's voice, the same as what they heard at Enies Lobby, said it'll carry the Straw Hats a little while longer. Usopp was certain the figure was the spirit of Merry. Franky said the figure was a Klabautermann, a legendary manifestation of a ship's spirit that fixes the old ship when she wants to sail a little longer.
They are soon met by a massive ship from Galley-La Company, helmed by Iceburg himself. Iceburg was impressed that the Straw Hats and his brother made it back alive and got Robin back. Suddenly, however, the Going Merry lurches in the water before splitting across her beam down the middle, her bow end folding toward the sea. Kaku's diagnosis had come true: her keel snapped. Luffy begs Iceburg for help, not wanting to lose Merry right after she saved them. But Iceburg tells him there's nothing he can do. While the Straw Hats were on their way to Enies Lobby, he heard a banging on Scrap Island, where the ship had come to rest after being flushed by CP9. Although she had been grounded by the Aqua Laguna, he heard a voice saying she wanted to sail just one more time. So Iceburg did as much patching as he could that night, and allowed the hull to go out to sea on the next Aqua Laguna wave. To his shock, he heard a "thank you", and the ship appeared to sail off as if she had a mind of her own. Seeing this as a sign, he took one of his company ships out after it, leading him to find them now.
Iceburg says the Going Merry is a magnificent ship which, like the rest of the crew, went well beyond her limits. But she was not going to make it back to Water 7. Luffy finally agrees with Iceburg: it was time to let go. The rest of the occupants board one dinghy as Luffy lags behind in another. He takes a torch, and sets the hull of Merry on fire, proceeding to give the ship a Viking funeral so she would not suffer the loneliness of the sea floor. Luffy muses that it's better that Usopp not be here to see this, but Usopp tells Zoro that he has accepted the fate of his ship. Everyone watches as Luffy slowly drifts away from the ship, their captain thanking Merry again for carrying them.
As the ship burns under newly-falling snow, each of the Straw Hats recall their fondest memories of the ship. As the mast burns down and the ship begins to list, the crew hear Merry's spirit speak. It apologizes for not being able to carry them any further. Luffy cries out that the crew should be apologizing for their inexperience and incompetence at maintaining a ship; that if they knew better, Merry would have never gotten in as bad a shape as she did. At this point, nobody on the crew could keep from crying. But Merry speaks up, saying she was always happy, and knew they loved it.
Merry thanks them one last time as her figurehead, Luffy's "special seat", disappears in the growing flames. Luffy cries out her name as she disintegrates to ashes.


Two days have passed since Aqua Laguna, the battle of Enies Lobby, and the tearful passing of the Going Merry. It is a time to gather thoughts, pick up pieces, and resume lives. Zoro sits alone, holding the rusted ruins of Yubashiri and again stuck in a helpless feeling that he hadn't given the sword proper respect, leading to its fate.
Water 7's backstreets begin their annual process of rebuilding, though the ferocity of this year's storm has left a lot more damage than usual, leaving some to wonder if they'll be able to fully repair the damage. Just then, to their joy (and to the screams of the ladies), Paulie leads a group of Galley-La Company shipwrights from Docks 3 and 5 in their off time to help in the rebuilding effort with a goal of fixing everything within a month.
Meanwhile, the Franky Family are hard at work trying to rebuild the Franky House, though their lack of experience at construction is making things hard (and the house crooked). Nearby, Sodom and Gomorrah are convalescing. Chopper had given them both excellent prognoses: Gomorrah's eye damage isn't permanent, and both should be back to 100% soon. Just then, Zambai shows up asking for help: Franky's "special delivery" has just arrived at the train station.
Lots of people are outside the massive gates of Dock 1 demanding admittance in spite of vehement refusals from the shipwrights. Many want to thank or apologize to the Straw Hat Pirates while several ladies are hoping to fill in the secretary void left by Kalifa when she was revealed as part of CP9. Inside, guided by Usopp, Oimo and Kashii are passing some time helping out repairing the dock. With Dorry and Brogy still dueling, they can't go to Little Garden, so instead they'll head back to Elbaf. Though they offer to take him with them, Usopp declines, wishing to find a way to rejoin the Straw Hats instead.
Iceburg talks with Franky in his office. He learns that Franky had burned the Pluton blueprints and agrees with the decision. With the blueprints themselves targeted, the only option left was to deny them their prize. But in doing so, Franky will now be targeted by the World Government. Franky then notices the drawing on Iceburg's table. Iceburg reveals that Aqua Laguna's increasing ferocity means Water 7 will not be able to stand much longer unless something drastic is done. Remembering how their mentor Tom had realized the seeming impossible in the sea train Puffing Tom, Iceburg decides on a project no less ambitious: to convert Water 7 into a floating city. Franky is stunned by the idea, but Iceburg reminds him of their mentor, and Franky realizes that he should've expected no less. Just then, the Den Den Mushi rings. Franky answers it and finds Zambai on the other end with great news: his "treasure" has finally arrived.
The Straw Hat Pirates are recuperating in a special suite set aside for them in Iceburg's headquarters. Luffy, as expected, is eating ravenously, but Sanji is able to keep up with his captain's appetite. Soon, they receive a visit from Kokoro, Chimney, Gonbe, and Yokozuna (although the latter has to give his sentiments from the window due to his size). Kokoro tries to talk to Luffy, only to learn that Luffy is eating in his sleep: his appetite being that huge. She then tries to talk to Nami to let her know their Log Pose should be set in about three days. But she finds her in an aura of depression. Not only are they without a ship, but all their belongings were in a hotel that got destroyed by Aqua Laguna. But then Kokoro reveals she brought some other people with her: the managers of the hotel. When they reveal they'd come to return the Straw Hats' belongings, Nami is overjoyed: particularly since her precious mikan trees are safe. It turned out after the Iceberg attack, they'd confiscated their belongings figuring to turn them in as pirate loot, and as a result everything survived the storm. Just then Robin and Chopper arrive and soon hear the good news. Now that they have their goods and their remaining 100M, they can look for a new ship.
Just then, Franky, Mozu, and Kiwi show up with their usual flamboyance. After the introductions, though, Franky gets serious and starts telling them the story of the Treasure Tree Adam: about how it stood tall even as countless cities fell beneath its huge canopy. The wood of this tree, Adam Wood, is said to be among the strongest in the world but also extremely rare as pieces of it only fall off infrequently. The reason for the story is because Franky had taken the 200M he'd stolen from the Straw Hats and gone to a black market to buy a supply of this wood. At first the Straw Hats are angry, but Franky begs patience. For many years, he'd sworn off shipbuilding (after his Battle Frankies were used to frame Tom). Yet the desire to build never fully left him, so he ended up drawing plans for one last ship: a dream ship as grand and as as daring as Tom's most famous creation: Gold Roger's Oro Jackson. He has the plans, and now he has the materials, so now, in apology, appreciation, and recompense, Franky announces that he will build the ship for the Straw Hats. Everyone starts celebrating.
Just than, a Marine ship arrives at Water 7. The bulldog figurehead fills everyone with dread, as they know who commands that ship: the infamous Vice-Admiral Garp, who supposedly chased Gold Roger throughout the Pirate King's career. Zoro notices this and is trying to make his way to the others, but as expected he can't find his way. Finally arriving, Garp punches his way straight through the wall and goes straight for the sleeping Luffy. To the surprise of everyone, his punch awakens and hurts Luffy in spite of his rubber body. Luffy then further shocks everyone when he calls Garp his grandpa.

Luffy's grandfather has been revealed to be Monkey D. Garp, Marine Vice-Admiral and celebrated hero. Garp expresses disappointment that his torturous training regimes did not inspire Luffy to follow in his footsteps and become a Marine. The two continue to argue and Garp reveals that Shanks, the man who inspired Luffy to become a pirate, is a member of the Four Emperors. Four powerful pirate captains who rule over a part of the Grand Line like emperors and who are the reason for the creation of the Marine Headquarters/Seven Warlords of the Sea alliance.
Garp's speech is cut short by Roronoa Zoro, who arrives back at the Galley-La Company compound and begins fighting the assembled marines. Unfazed, Garp instructs his two best students to combat Zoro. However, the two are easily subdued by Luffy and Zoro and revealed to be faces from the past, Luffy's former companion Koby and his former enemy Helmeppo. Luffy warmly greets his old friend, while snubbing the irate Helmeppo, much to his annoyance. Koby explains that both he and Helmeppo have been training under Garp in order to become Marine Officers.
Garp later orders his men to rebuild the wall he broke down, but at their insistence, he aids them in doing so. Garp then asks Luffy about him meeting his father though Luffy is confused, as he didn't think he had a father. Garp realizes that Luffy's father didn't introduce himself before he states they met in Loguetown, much to Luffy's shock. Garp then reveals that Luffy's father is none other than the infamous revolutionary Monkey D. Dragon, who had been responsible for saving Luffy from Smoker. This news shocks everyone presents as no one knew Dragon had a son, his full name, or more shockingly that he was Garp's son. Luffy then asks why everyone is freaking out so much. Apparently, Luffy had never been told about his father as his crew tell him of his father's reputation.
Finally, Robin explains to Luffy that Dragon is the leader of the Revolutionary Army, an infamous rebel force that is openly opposing the World Government. This force has already been responsible for the overthrow of several monarchies, threatening to destabilize the Government itself. As a result, the World Government have labeled Dragon the most dangerous criminal in the world. Because of his reputation, showing Dragon's face or mentioning his name terrifies anyone familiar with him. Garp concludes that he has probably revealed too much and instructs everyone to forget what he said.

Garp reveals that he won't capture his own grandson. He more or less came to make sure he was okay and to let Koby and Helmeppo see him. While the Marines repair the damage to Iceburg's building, he lets the three take some time to catch up and chat, though he does slug Luffy once more when Luffy doesn't show some reluctance. Nami, Chopper, and Sanji come to realize just where Luffy gets his stubborn and stupid streaks.
After Garp leaves, the rest of the Straw Hats discuss Garp's revelations. Robin in particular is amazed at the connection to Dragon, not realizing Luffy would be connected to something even more dangerous than the scholars of her home island, Ohara. Zoro isn't with Luffy because his association with Koby was tenuous; his history is more with Luffy than with anyone else. Nami is notably absent; Chopper notes she'd wanted to seek out some Marine intel while they were here but instead went to the pool with Kokoro and Chimney. Hearing that, Sanji rushes off to the pool.
Outside, Luffy learns to his surprise that the Marines have found a way to safely cross the Calm Belt, meaning they don't have to go through Reverse Mountain to reach the Grand Line. Thanks to the work of a scientist named Dr. Vegapunk, Marines have covered the bottoms of their ships with seastone. Because of Kairoseki's natural sea energy emissions, this hides their presence from the Sea Kings meaning as long as they can address the issue of power, they can come and go more or less freely, giving them a huge maneuverability advantage.
Unknown to them, a Baby Den Den Mushi is hidden near their location. Nami was actually at the pool and listening in on Koby through a Black Den Den Mushi. She files the knowledge of the Kairoseki trick away for future reference. She also learns that it was Vegapunk who found the way to infuse Devil Fruits into inanimate objects-resulting in things like Spandam's Elephant Sword Funkfreed-as well as more insight as to how Devil Fruits actually work. The conversation then turns to Garp, revealing that all three admit he's an advocate of "tough love": he may test you to the verge of death, but in the end you become stronger for it. Plus Koby and Helmeppo are grateful for him taking them in after the incident of Axe-Hand Morgan's escape. Nami finally decides she'll learn no more secrets and finally goes for a swim, but she almost inhales water when she passes under Kokoro in mermaid form: some things will just never cease to shock.
Regretfully, Luffy, Koby, and Helmeppo's reunion is brief, as they have to go back to Headquarters and resume training. But before going, Koby leaves a tantalizing fact: the back half of the Grand Line is known as "The New World". It's becoming a focal point for both pirates and Marines, and the next Pirate King will likely be crowned there. Luffy realizes he needs to be part of this action. Koby's hope is that one day, even as opponents, they can meet there and vie to see who's dream is realized first: Luffy being the next Pirate King or he becoming the next Admiral. Luffy acknowledges this and without a hint of ridicule challenges him to realize that dream and meet him in The New World as a worthy rival. Encouraged, Koby rushes off with a confused Helmeppo following.
Back on Garp's ship, Koby wonders if the Straw Hats are fully aware of just how the World Government is depicting the Enies Lobby incident. Helmeppo points out that Koby's seeing the darker side of the World Government: one determined to maintain its stranglehold on power by hook or crook. Cover-ups like this are to be expected. Just then Garp stops their reminiscing and gets them back to training.
Back at the pool, Sanji is cooking up a barbecue. Everyone agrees it's delicious, and the taste is enough to even overlook Kokoro in mermaid form for the time being. Just then, Zambai and the Franky Family join them, encouraged by the news that Luffy was awake. Luffy invites them to the meal, starting off a comical cavalcade of other new arrivals: Oimo and Kashii, Sodom and Gomorrah, Iceburg and the Galley-La Company shipwrights, Franky, Mozu, and Kiwi. Even Usopp manages to join in his Sogeking disguise. What had started as a friendly little barbecue among the crew soon turns into a gigantic celebration.
As the sun begins to set, Robin finds a little peace and quiet against a wall. Just then, a familiar voice addresses her from the other side of the wall. It's Aokiji. He starts by asking why Robin didn't run away like she had for 20 years. Robin replies that she can't run away anymore: not when she now has finally found her friends. Then Aokiji drops a bombshell: Jaguar D. Saul, whom he'd been forced to kill 20 years ago, was a close friend of his. But while he'd been compelled by duty that day, he also allowed him one boon: that being to make sure Robin was safe. So for 20 years he'd kept tabs on the homeless, friendless Robin. By the time of their encounter prior to Water 7, Aokiji was prepared to believe Robin was becoming too dangerous. Then Enies Lobby happened and complicated the matter. No one had really thought the Straw Hats would go through CP9 and a Buster Call to rescue her. So he asks one more time, "Have you finally found a tree to call home?" Robin finally answers, "Yes." And Aokiji is finally relieved. With true friends, Robin can stop running away from her past and stand tall as the last survivor of Ohara. He tells Robin to live her life with resolve and then leaves. By the time Robin reaches the spot where Aokiji had been, all that's there is an icy "X". She's finally drawn back to the party by Luffy. As Aokiji calmly bikes away, Robin realizes that Saul's greatest wish has indeed been granted; she is homeless and friendless no more.

The episode starts by showing everyone at Water 7 partying. Sogeking singing, Franky Family dancing, etc. The scene changes to a fleet of destroyed Marine ships. An unharmed pirate ship proceeds past them. Meanwhile, the Five Elders are informed that the Whitebeard Pirates and the Red Hair Pirates have broke through the Marine's defenses and that the two crews are arranged to have a meeting.
On Whitebeard's ship, Whitebeard is informed of Shanks arrival. At Navy Headquarters, Marine soldiers are on standby after hearing the news of the meeting. Shanks boards Whitebeard's ship, as Marco orders the newcomers to go inside the ship. However, the message comes too late. Members of the Whitebeard pirates faint when Shanks walk pass them using his Haoshoku Haki. Shanks apologizes, since it hard to stay calm on an enemy ship. Whitebeard orders his men to leave. When the crew is out of sight, Shanks prepared drinks of alcohol for the two captains.
After a sip of the drink, Whitebeard said Shanks has made quite a leap as a pirate since Gol D. Roger's death, and asked about Buggy. Shanks replied that he hasn't heard anything about him since they parted ways at Loguetown after Roger's execution. Whitebeard was curious and asked why Shanks was missing an arm. He replied that he bet it on the new era. Shanks changed the subject to his scars, pointing to one scar across his face. Declaring it came from a member of Whitebeard's crew; Marshall D. Teach. He then asked Whitebeard to stop Ace's search for Teach. Whitebeard becomes furious, and says that Blackbeard needs to learn his lesson. He then throws his bottle at Shanks. Shanks draws his sword and said that the world will be thrown into chaos. The two clash swords, and the sky divides from the impact.
The next day, the Franky Family reads the newspaper on Enies Lobby, relieved that they were not mentioned. At the Galley-La Company, the Straw Hat Pirates react to the news, wondering why the Franky Family was not in the article. Sanji and Chopper are excited, as they can't wait for their new bounties. Meanwhile, Franky prepares the new ship for the Straw Hat Pirates. Iceburg arrives and offers to help, then Paulie, Tilestone, and Peepley Lulu appears and offers to help as well. Back at the Galley-La Company, Luffy learns that Franky is building a ship for them. Nami informs everyone that they still have the money to spend and recommends buying furniture for the ship. However, Nami finds only a small stack of money in the safe. Luffy told Nami that he spent the money on the party last night. After Luffy get beaten by Nami, the crew goes shopping.

When Zoro is crafting his sword, the old man yells at him to get paid or get beaten, but Zoro leaves, Michael and Hoichael shows up and calls Zoro "Big Brother" which he tells them that he can't be their brother just because they saved him. After Zoro got his sword crafted, and he saw Michael and Hoichael and tells them to leave them alone. Zoro was running away from the two boys one who found them in the watermelons, disguised as a civilian, and Zoro finally became safe. When Auntie shows up, he tells Zoro to leave her kids alone, but Zoro stops her from fighting him anyways. When the kids come out, they introduced themselves, Hoichael and Michael says to everyone that Zoro the great swordsman, and their brand-new big brother, and Zoro tells them that he is not, and neither will he ever be their brother. Auntie takes Zoro with the kids to have tea.

Sanji is buying groceries in the company of Chimney and Gonbe. For lunch, they lead him to the small floating restaurant of a drunken old man. He is asleep and not easily woken, so Sanji decides to prepare something himself. While he is cooking, the old man wakes up and immediately recognizes Sanji's way of handling the carving knife, for he knew Sanji's mentor, "Red-Leg" Zeff. He insists that Sanji taste some of his cooking. Sanji is amazed by the flavor, but cannot figure out how the old man made it. Intent on discovering the secret, he searches the city for seasonings that might have been used. He gets to eat an onigiri made by the old man and realizes that he uses a special salt. The salt was created by Aqua Laguna. As the storm floods the lower parts of the city, it covers the buildings with seawater. In the following sunny days, particularly tasty residual salt is left on the rooftops that Sanji uses.

Construction continues on the Straw Hat Pirates' new ship as the sun sets. Although having the help of Yokozuna, Paulie, Lulu, and Tilestone, Iceburg and Franky are doing the bulk of the work: surprising everyone else with their seemingly boundless energy. Even well into the night, the Dock 1 shipwrights are amazed at the "gusto" being displayed by their boss and his "bro" and realize that Tom's Workers still live on in these two incredible shipwrights. As they continue to work, Iceburg has a chuckle. When Franky accosts him, he replies that he never realized that Franky had so much talent hidden away. He remembers the Battle Frankies. While they may have had disagreements over them, and while they were used to frame Tom, he now feels they were just the warmups to this masterpiece: a work of sheer shipbuilding genius. He can't help but compliment Franky with all honesty. Kokoro recalls their youth. Tom had said they would both become great shipwrights in the future, and here Kokoro realizes his words are ringing true. Then Franky points out one crucial similarity. The crime that eventually sealed Tom's fate was building Gold Roger's Oro Jackson. And now Iceburg stands building a ship for a pirate crew who will no doubt become no less infamous. Iceburg replies that he will deal with that if it ever comes. Tom himself had said that a ship is a ship. What happens to it is the decision of its crew. So, like Tom, Iceburg will build this ship the same way every ship at Galley-La Company is made: on the belief that he is just building another ship. And in this case, he's also helping to fulfill a dream.
Franky, meanwhile, wonders back to the time he resolved to stop Puffing Tom from taking Tom away to his death. He had vowed never to build a ship again, fearing they may once again be turned against the people he cared about. The train runs him over, leaving him broken and barely alive. At that point, a derelict iron ship passes. With his remaining strength, he climbs aboard and feels at home: a broken, battered body alone on a broken, battered ship. He resolves first and foremost to rebuild himself. He then recalled his conversation with Iceburg back when he returned to Water 7: how in the end Iceburg was just happy to see him alive again. Franky wonders who's more stubborn: he for defying the World Government even now, or Iceburg for daring to take them on by helping him now.
Usopp in the meantime is continuing to develop ways to apologize to the Straw Hats. He then sneaks to their suite to find out where the crew stands with him. He notes Zoro standing defiant on one side of the room and the rest of the crew on the other side. Usopp thinks the crew's getting frictious and decides to employ a scenario, but then Nami spoils this by closing the curtains so no one gets to see him. So he leaves, knowing time is now against him. If this keeps up, they really will leave without him.
Back at the construction site, the Franky Family offers everyone a meal break from their work. Out of courtesy, Iceburg and Franky are given first dibs. As they eat, Iceburg asks Franky what he'll do once the ship is finished. At this, Franky can't answer. Iceburg suggests he go with the Straw Hats. After all, they are in need of a shipwright. But Franky stands firm. He'll remain here with his Family. Zambai, however, wonders if he may not be entirely truthful. Paulie, Lulu, and Tilestone are amazed once again at Iceburg and Franky's will to continue working when they're too tired to even have their snacks. But the conversation stirs Franky's thought. The Straw Hats were something else, and allying with them at Enies Lobby proved quite a blast, so this dream ship of his will be entrusted to them. Their work continues until sunrise, even after everyone else except Kokoro collapses in exhaustion. Somehow, Franky and Iceburg are able to egg each other on to greater and greater efforts.
As dawn breaks, Nami wakes to encouraging news: one week has passed, and her Log Pose is finally set. Once their ship is finished, they can set sail and resume their journey. Kokoro then points out something to Nami: the needle is pointing slightly downward. This is because the next leg of their journey will be taking them to the halfway point of their journey along the Grand Line. Their next stop will be Fish-Man Island which is at the bottom of the ocean. The mention of Fish-Man brings up mixed feelings. While Sanji is excited at the prospect of a place bound to be full of mermaids (until he remembers that Kokoro is a mermaid, too), the word stirs up unpleasant memories in many of the others: particularly Nami, who doesn't forget the time the Arlong and his fish-men had held her home of Cocoyasi Village hostage, though Zoro reminds her they were ruthless because they were also pirates. Then Kokoro points out that getting there will be the hard part: not just because they need to find a way to the sea floor but because the route indicated by the Log Pose passes through some very dangerous waters: an infamous place known as the Florian Triangle where ships of all types have vanished without a trace or returned without their crews. Nami is initially scared to go until Robin points out that ghost ships are often treasure ships, too. Luffy's already itching to go in hopes of encountering zombies and skeletons, and the talk of treasure ships makes Zoro wonder if he can find a new sword among such loot.
Just then, Chimney, Gonbe, Mozu and Kiwi arrive with great news. The new ship is ready, ahead of schedule. But moments later, Zambai and the Franky Family arrive as well, and their news is not so great. The World Government has issued new wanted posters, and for the first time, the entire Straw Hat crew is wanted:"Straw Hat" Luffy's bounty triples from 100,000,000 to 300,000,000. Luffy is jubilant at his increased notoriety.
"Pirate Hunter" Zoro's bounty doubles from 60,000,000 to 120,000,000. Like Luffy, Zoro reacts positively since more infamy means greater challengers. To her shock, Nami gets the epithet "Cat Burglar" and a bounty of 16,000,000. Her photo is provocative due to the photographer pretending to be from a magazine. Chopper is dismayed that he has a bounty of only 50, having been mistaken for the crew's pet. His epithet is "Cotton Candy Lover". "Devil Child" Robin gets a modest raise from 79,000,000 to 80,000,000, mostly to justify updating her picture to show her as an adult. Robin is mildly amused. Sanji's excitement over finally being wanted (he earns the epithet "Black Leg" and a bounty of 77,000,000) disappears when he learns his wanted picture isn't a photograph but rather a very inaccurate drawing. Though not present, Usopp (as Sogeking) also has a bounty: this one worth 30,000,000. Zambai then reveals he has one more wanted poster to show them" "Cyborg" Franky, with a bounty of 44,000,000.
As Iceburg had predicted, Franky is now a wanted man. This means it's no longer safe for Franky to stay at Water 7. So they beg the Straw Hats to take him with them.

After Zambai and the Franky Family beg Luffy to take Franky with them, now that he is wanted, Luffy calmly agrees since he had been seeking a shipwright anyway. But Zambai realizes (after watching him last night) that convincing him will be another matter. Leaving Mozu and Kiwi behind, they proceed towards the Franky House (where Franky is returning right now), saying what they are about to do is a matter between men. As the Straw Hat Pirates prepare to leave, Roronoa Zoro reminds them of their stance regarding Usopp. Urged on by Mozu and Kiwi, they make their way to Scrap Island. At Marineford, Attach the photographer has to explain why Sanji's wanted poster does not have a photo. He shows the original result of his effort a completely black photo. While Attach thinks this to be the result of mystic power, it was because he forgot to take the lens cap off. 
The Straw Hats arrive to see their new ship enshrouded. Surprisingly, while Iceburg, Paulie, Lulu, Tilestone, and Yokozuna are present (albeit asleep), Franky is not. As he wakes, Iceburg notes Franky did not want to be present at the unveiling, but Franky did leave a message: the King of Pirates should sail a ship graced by the King of Beasts. With a grand flourish, Iceburg unveils their new ship graced with a lion figurehead. Before them stands a brig sloop, at least twice as big as the Going Merry, and packed full of incredible things. Even as the crew take in their new ship, Iceburg conveys something important about Franky. Although he would like more than anything to accompany the Straw Hats on their journey, Franky feels he owes an obligation to Water 7 and in particular to the Franky Family whom he has been training and protecting for years. He is being stubborn, so if they want Franky as a shipwright, they are going to have to get rough.
The dirty business is beginning right now as the Franky Family react to Franky relaxing at the Franky House. Despite their best efforts, they cannot hold back tears at what they are about to do. Zambai starts by asking why he will not go with the Straw Hats. Franky points to the shoddily rebuilt Franky House as proof they still need his guidance. Zambai then displays the wanted poster and points out that he is now wanted and cannot stay at Water 7, buy Franky blows it off, wondering if they are using this as a ruse to get rid of him. Suddenly, one of them sneaks up and pulls off his swim briefs. The Franky Family starts running in the direction of Scrap Island with Franky in naked pursuit. As each member falls, he passes the briefs along to the next one ahead. The chase passes through the back streets, with Franky retaliating when he can and causing collateral damage along with cries of indecency from the public. Just as the last member of the Family is about to get caught, he finds Luffy. As he takes the briefs, Luffy thanks Franky for the ship, but Franky continues to demand his briefs back. He finally shoots at Luffy, but Luffy passes the briefs on to Chopper who leads Franky into a trap. Zoro and Sanji grab Franky and stuff him into the Franky Family's Anything-Shot Cannon, which then shoots him towards Scrap Island. He finally comes down legs up for all to see. As he comes to, he turns to see Luffy aboard his new ship, still holding his briefs and saying if he wants them back, he has to join the crew.

Franky stands on Scrap Island after chasing his swim briefs through Water 7 to the Straw Hats' new ship. He demands that Luffy, who has his swim briefs currently, return it. Although somewhat humiliated, with the people of the city yelling at him that he's a "pervert", he still stands proudly against leaving, even posing before the ship shamelessly. The townspeople cover their children's eyes, and Luffy is impressed by Franky's determination. Nami just says Franky is a pervert, much like the townspeople were calling him. Robin, however, has an idea, and asks if she could get a little rough with him. Luffy did remember Iceburg telling him they might have to.
With Luffy's consent, Robin uses Dos Fleur Grab to grab and squeeze Franky's testicles. He shrieks and starts thrashing about in terrible pain. All the townspeople and those on the new ship cringe as Robin tortures him. Mozu and Kiwi squeal that they would be plucked off like ripe fruit. Franky is brought to the ground in agony. Luffy protests that he still wants Franky to be a man when he joins the crew. Robin responds that pirates should not let go of treasure they find without good reason.
Franky continues to protest that he could not leave the island, and that he no longer wishes to be a shipwright; the Straw Hats' ship would be his last. At this point, Iceburg steps up and says he remembers Franky's dream when growing up was to build the ultimate ship, and sail on it as its shipwright. He then suggests that Franky's real intention for not leaving was atonement for Tom being taken away for execution at Enies Lobby. Iceburg tells Franky that even if he and Tom forgave him, Franky also needs to finally forgive himself. As Franky comes to tears, Iceburg says it's time for him to start living his dreams again.
The Franky Family tosses him a bag; they've already packed his things. Zambai apologizes for making him run through Water 7 naked, but they were only looking out for him, and wanted him to be happy. By this time, Robin has stopped grabbing him, even though he continues to roll around the junk piles as if in agony. She also says she only squeezed him once. His tears are coming for a different reason as he recalls how he built the Franky Family by gathering up the rogues and the destitute of the city, taking them under his wing and recruiting them to the defense of Water 7. In despair, Franky asks his family how they could possibly survive without him. The group tells their "big brother" that they have learned enough to keep Water 7 safe in his absence, and they would always be his followers.
Suddenly, Zoro and Sanji run through the group and down to the ship. Zoro alerts Luffy that his grandfather, Vice Admiral Garp, has returned, and is after them despite having promised to leave them be earlier. Sanji notes that Franky still isn't wearing his pants, and Luffy throws his swim briefs back to him. Franky shows his confidence again, saying that the Straw Hats were amateurs at ship repair, and a ship as grand as their new one would be something to pity without a proper shipwright. With that, Franky agrees to join their crew. Franky thinks one last time back to Tom and the construction of the Sea Train. Leaving Galley-La Company and the Franky Family behind, he gives one more pose before jumping on the ship. Sanji reminds Franky to put his swim briefs back on.

With his Marines having located the Straw Hat Pirates, Vice Admiral Garp sets sail in his ship for Scrap Island. He and his crew are annoyed with the order from Fleet Admiral Sengoku to exterminate the Straw Hats there at Water 7, but saw little choice in the matter with Admiral Aokiji on-board his ship. With the Franky Family calling their farewells to Franky, the Straw Hats set sail on their new ship. But some of the crew are concerned, because one person is missing. Luffy knows.
Flashback to a few days before at Galley-La Company's headquarters, where Sanji told Luffy about Usopp's plan to ask to rejoin the crew. At first Luffy is eager to take Usopp back, but Zoro speaks up with an objection. He says it is not right for Usopp to return without at least an apology after the way he quit originally, especially with the duel he fought with Luffy over the Going Merry. Zoro says it is not right for Usopp to be accepted back so easily after the duel, and they must respect its result. He insists that allowing Usopp back without such would be an insult to Luffy's authority as captain, and that he will quit if Luffy allows himself to be walked all over like that. He says it is time for them to stop treating being pirates as a game, and that Usopp needs to learn to a lesson on not quitting so easily. Luffy understands Zoro's point, and agrees.
Back in the present, Luffy is convinced (at least outwardly) that Usopp is not returning, but is certain they will run into each other again in the future. Meanwhile, Usopp is running through Water 7, eager to return to the crew and certain they will welcome him back with open arms. On the ship, Nami asks Luffy to wait just a little while longer, but a cannonball splashing in the water signals their time is up. Vice Admiral Garp has caught up with them. Everybody, especially Luffy, is surprised that it is Garp attacking them. Garp uses a megaphone to hail his grandson. Garp apologizes for the change in situation, since he said previously he would let Luffy leave Water 7, but does say he will take care of the matter by himself.
With that, Garp uses his superhuman strength to hurl cannonballs at the ship far harder than a cannon would fire them, an attack he calls Genkotsu Meteor. He fires a warning shot that explodes on the shore by the ship, blowing it out into open water. He calls for more cannonballs so he can proceed with Genkotsu Ryuseigun: he plans on rapid-firing cannonballs at Luffy's ship. Luffy's crew prepares to fend off the attack. Chopper sniffs the air, and senses that Usopp has arrived by the shore of Water 7.
Usopp makes it to the shore above Scrap Island and runs through the gathered crowd to see what is going on. Zambai asks him what he is still doing here. He looks up, and sees the new ship as it sails away. Usopp panics, not knowing why they'd leave without him after his help at Enies Lobby. They could not possibly have forgotten that he is really Sogeking, could they? Seeing the attack begin, he jumps to Scrap Island and runs after the ship along the shore, trying to get their attention as they fend off Garp's constant rain of cannonballs. Chopper tries to tell them that Usopp has arrived, but they are too busy defending the ship.
Usopp calls out to his shipmates, trying to get their attention. All the while, he is in denial that they could have taken his resignation from the crew seriously, and that is why they are leaving without him. He reaches the shore of Scrap Island, and calls for them to stop fooling around. Chopper tries one more time to get Luffy and Zoro to listen for Usopp, but they claim they cannot hear him. Usopp watches in growing despair as the ship sails further away under Garp's attack. Usopp thinks back to the circumstances of his departure and sinks to his knees, realizing finally what his hasty resignation is about to cost him.
With tears streaming, Usopp screams to the ship that he is sorry. Luffy finally stops, hearing his mea culpa. Usopp apologizes for being so selfish and stubborn, and that he wishes he could take back what he had said when he left. He begs to be allowed back in the crew. With that, Luffy stretches his arm out to the shore, and screams for Usopp to grab on. He pulls Usopp back onto the boat, tears streaming, as the rest of the crew splits time between rejoicing at the heartfelt reunion and continuing the defense of their ship. With their crew finally complete, Luffy orders his men to fight off the bombardment so they can continue their journey.

Usopp is finally reconciled with the Straw Hat Pirates and has been pulled on-board their new ship. But they remain under attack from Vice Admiral Garp. Franky orders Zoro to furl up the sails so he can fire up a secret escape mechanism.
But before they get underway, Franky insists they name the ship first. Luffy comes up with a bunch of odd, unsuitable animal combinations. Franky says the name should be based on the masthead, which is shaped vaguely like a lion's head, though most at Galley-La Company "mistook" it for a sunflower. Iceburg and Franky agreed that it was suitable for the future ship of the Pirate King. Iceburg is inspired, envisioning a ship that can brightly cross a thousand seas like the Sun. He therefore suggested the name Thousand Sunny. The crew ignores Franky's lion-based name idea and go with Iceburg's idea instead.
Franky goes below deck to power up his escape device, remarking that Water 7 will disappear from view momentarily. Luffy calls out to his grandfather and says they are leaving now. He says his goodbye to Koby, but still doesn't know Helmeppo's name. He whacks away one last cannonball from Garp telling him it's no use which infuriates Garp who has to be held back by Helmeppo. Luffy then proclaims his thanks to Iceburg, Galley-La and the Franky Family, but he's too far away for them to hear him. Garp then gets out a comically-enormous cannonball and swings it at the Thousand Sunny. Just as the crew think they're all going to die, Franky's "Miracle Emergency Acceleration Device" fires: Coup de Burst! Powered by three barrels of cola, the Thousand Sunny launches into the air suddenly, getting away.
Everyone on Garp's ship is surprised, even Aokiji. Garp almost looks pleased at his grandson's escape, and starts laughing remarking "Not bad Luffy." As the Straw Hats sail off in the sky, Usopp remembers the flying sensation from when the Going Merry flew up the Knock Up Stream to Skypiea. Franky boasts that the soul of the Going Merry lives on in the Thousand Sunny. There's not a thing that Merry could do that the new ship cannot. Back at Water 7, Oimo and Kashii are seen assisting the rebuilding process. The Franky Family frets a bit because they're out of food, but Iceburg comes to their aid, giving them jobs at Galley-La. Word begins to spread about the new bounties for the Straw Hats. Smoker gets the new wanted posters from Tashigi after a pirate bust. He says other pirates will start to defer to the Straw Hats now, and vows he will crush Luffy when they reach the New World.
On the Baratie, Zeff immediately recognizes the terrible composite sketch made of Sanji. His former fellow chefs all laugh at it. Regardless, his poster replaces Luffy's at the center of the restaurant, and they use it as a selling point, that the restaurant is Sanji's home. Back at Foosha Village, the villagers once more rejoice at Luffy's growing infamy. Woop Slap is again annoyed by the raucous partying. Makino likes his crew, especially his "cute pet". Woop Slap is annoyed that an enemy of the World Government came from Foosha, and wonders what Garp is doing about it. He also wonders if Dadan knows about Luffy's recent actions. At Syrup Village, the Usopp Pirates and Kaya instantly recognize Sogeking as Usopp. The rest of the village doesn't believe it, however. Kaya goes back to her medical studies so she can be ready if Usopp needs to be healed if/when he returns. The boys say they'll beat Usopp up if he ever hurts Kaya.
At Shimotsuki Village, Koushirou admits to his pupils that he taught Zoro how to fight, but swears he didn't teach Zoro how to be a pirate. Now all the kids want to be pirates in addition to great fighters. He doesn't mind too much, as long as Zoro keeps kendo at his heart. At Cocoyashi Village, Genzo is irate at Nami's wanted poster, yet has it blown up behind his desk. Nojiko sates him by pointing out Nami's expression, saying it's proof that Luffy has indeed not taken away her smile. At the Sakura Kingdom, Dalton calls Dr. Kureha down from her castle, and shows her the latest wanted posters for the Straw Hats. Dalton is certain the Marines are mistaken about Chopper's measly 50 bounty. Dr. Kureha is just happy that she gets to see him again.
At Arabasta, Igaram, Chaka, Pell and King Cobra are shocked that Nico Robin, "Miss All Sunday" of Baroque Works, is now affiliated with the Straw Hats. They are concerned that Vivi will not take this news well, but she already knows, and doesn't care. She trusts Luffy's decisions even if nobody ever understands his motives. Yet again, they are surprised by the princess' maturity. At Baltigo, a yet-unseen island on the Grand Line, the Revolutionary Army discusses a successful coup at Centaurea in South Blue. Their leader, "Revolutionary" Dragon, sees the stack of wanted posters for the Straw Hats. It's noted that the Marines made the entire crew wanted due to the events at Enies Lobby. His associates mention Luffy's relation to Garp, apparently unaware of their leader's relation to both men. Dragon believes his son's exploits will get more people to question the World Government, and welcomes the day when they will finally meet. Back on the Thousand Sunny, the Straw Hats celebrate the returns of Usopp and Robin; their new shipwright, Franky; and their new ship.

While the rest of the world is finding out about the Straw Hats' new bounties and events at Enies Lobby, Blackbeard is seen reading an earlier account of the Straw Hat's activities at Enies Lobby, commenting that their bounties should rise afterwards. Lafitte wonders if the Straw Hats hijacked a Sea Train from Water 7 to get to Enies Lobby. Van Auger comments that Water 7 isn't too far from the Blackbeard Pirate's current location and thinks they'll cross paths again while Doc Q suggests that fate may allow them to meet again and take action when it happens. Jesus Burgess laughs while carrying a sack and asks what they're waiting for, and Blackbeard responds in agreement and announces his intent to stop the Straw Hats before the Marines can. 
Meanwhile, the townspeople are seen defeated and scattered around. As Blackbeard's crew walks ahead, they pass by an observing Ace, who is seen squatting in a roof near them. Ace calls out Blackbeard by referencing him as Teach, stating that they need to talk. The narration then plays, confirming that history-changing events are taking place in this small island called Banaro Island, three days before the Straw Hat's fate and bounties were revealed to the world.
Blackbeard looks up in surprise and addresses him as Commander Ace, to which Ace responds by stating that he has no right to call him that anymore. Lafitte comments that this must be the famous pirate "Fire Fist" Ace that they're witnessing. Ace confirms Lafitte's address and then notes that Blackbeard is a captain of his own crew now. Blackbeard responds that it's been a while since they interacted, and teases Ace if he's been looking for him. Ace responds to Blackbeard to cut his act and that there is only one reason for him to be here. In response, Blackbeard asks him to join his crew instead of fighting, claiming that he has the perfect plan to become the Pirate King while mentioning that Whitebeard's days are numbered. Blackbeard further mentions that he plans to head to Water 7 to kill Luffy and present it as a gift to the World Government.
A surprised Ace then reveals to Blackbeard that he won't let him kill his younger brother. Upon refusing to join Blackbeard's crew, Auger shoots Ace with a bullet harmlessly piercing through his Mera Mera no Mi's Logia Devil Fruit abilities. Ace smirks and comments that Blackbeard's crew weren't taught manners, to which Ace retaliates at Auger with Fire Gun. From behind, Burgess launches a hotel towards Ace to which he burns up with Flame Commandment Fire Pillar. The rubble lands near Blackbeard who yells at Auger and Burgess, warning them that they're not strong enough to fight Ace by themselves. As Burgess apologizes, Ace launches Fire Fist at Blackbeard's crew, managing to hit their captain. Engulfed in flames, Blackbeard rolls around in pain while his unscathed crew runs to his aid. As Auger fans the flames out, Ace walks towards them. Blackbeard dismisses his crew's help and tells them to stand back. As Blackbeard recovers, he understands Ace's intent to finish him, before admitting to the crime of murdering their former crew mate, fourth division commander Thatch. 
Blackbeard reveals that he had no choice but to kill Thatch in order to obtain the Yami Yami no Mi, a Devil Fruit he's been chasing after for decades and so the rule goes in Whitebeard's ship: whoever finds a devil fruit can claim it as theirs to eat. Blackbeard emphasizes that he memorized the shapes and colors of many Devil Fruits until he recognized the Yami Yami no Mi sitting in Thatch's hand. He further states that by lying low in Whitebeard's crew, he would have the best shot at finding it someday. Blackbeard tells Ace to witness the power he gained, stating its power is unique among Logia types. With his right hand, Blackbeard forms a black pillar into the sky and tells Ace that just as he is made out of fire, his own body is made out of darkness. The townspeople catch sight of Blackbeard's dark pillar, describing it as the weird black smoke from before. Seeing no other options, the townspeople run away in fear.
Blackbeard continues his fruit's display, stating that it is said to be the most powerful of them all. He tells Ace to witness his power, and Ace urges him on. Meanwhile, Blackbeard's crew is seen running away, with Burgess stating that their captain may kill them if they don't get away in time. Doc Q falls over and is dragged away by Burgess and Auger. Stronger subsequently collapses behind them, and Burgess proceeds to yell at him for also falling down. 
The pillar descends into Blackbeard's position and then spreads out, engulfing the ground of the town. The remaining townspeople observe the darkness spreading further out, wondering if it'll suck them up as well. More of them run away, as Blackbeard continues his speech about his power: darkness is like gravity, and it swallows everything around it. Ace acknowledges his claims, but mentions its not surrounding him. Blackbeard tells him this is intentional, as he wants him to see the power of the Yami Yami no Mi. Blackbeard uses Black Hole, which destroys and sucks up the entire town. The townspeople watch in fear as Blackbeard continues his speech, stating his power crushes and compresses everything his darkness touches. Moments later, the townspeople see the vast emptiness that is left of their town. With his left hand swallowing the remnants of the dark hole, he uses Liberation, and a black pillar forms out of his back and throws out everything the dark hole had just swallowed up and destroyed. 
Blackbeard marvels at his power, stating that this was worth killing Thatch over before pausing to see green balls of light appear towards him, which is Ace's Firefly Fiery Doll. Blackbeard is engulfed in flames and withers in pain, to which Ace comments that he understands his darkness power, but not at his sensitivity to pain. Ace states that as a Logia type, the flames should not hurt, let alone hit Blackbeard. Blackbeard's power absorbs the flames and responds that his power absorbs everything around him including pain, stating that he is unable to simply turn into an element and dodge an attack. He claims the pain he then receives is much greater than what a normal human feels. Even so, he states the tradeoff is worth utilizing the power, stating that there is one more thing his power can swallow. With his left hand, he summons Black Vortex, which utilizes gravity to pull a Devil Fruit user into his grasp. Ace's hat flies away as he is being pulled in, and comments that the power is indeed strong. Blackbeard appears before him, being able to grab Ace's shoulder and both of them realize what had just happened. Blackbeard punches Ace and sends him flying towards the rubble, commenting that it must have been a while since the last time he was hurt like that. Blackbeard finally states that his power can even absorb Devil Fruit powers, so long as he is in contact with the user. 
Wiping blood off his mouth, Ace states then all he has to do is avoid contact. Blackbeard reminds him that gravity is stronger than he thinks, and he summons Black Vortex. As Ace is pulled in, he uses St. Elmo's Fire, sending two pillars of fire through Blackbeard. Blackbeard manages to grab Ace anyways and punches him away, before dealing with his new damage again. His power absorbs the fire pillars away, and Ace realizes that Blackbeard's power will be more difficult to manage than he expected. Ace fires Cross Fire at Blackbeard and the impact falls a giant rock named Banana Rock which the townspeople observe. The townspeople fear that the ongoing combat may destroy their island in its entirety. Meanwhile, Auger and the rest of the crew are watching from afar, as he comments that unlike other users in combat, Ace isn't handicapped to only utilizing his Logia abilities. 
After some moments, both Blackbeard and Ace are seen in exhaustion, with Ace on his knees while Blackbeard stands tall. Blackbeard once more asks Ace to join his crew, stating that it would be a waste to finish him here. Ace struggles but stands up, stating that if he joined, he can never call himself a man again. Ace says no matter what happens, he won't submit and live a life of regrets. Blackbeard dismisses his morals, stating that they're meaningless if he is dead. Blackbeard understands that Ace won't change his mind, and summons a black pillar towards him. In response, Ace summons a giant fireball at the tip of his finger, the Great Flame Commandment Flame Emperor. Blackbeard remarks that this is the sun facing against darkness and that only one can win. Ace responds that he will make Whitebeard the King, or he will die trying. The two charge at each other with their massive attacks and from afar, the island is seen with their attacks colliding in the center, before the scene shines away into a view of Ace's hat lying on the ground. The narrator concludes that this clash would set off a chain of events that would change the world.

As the episode starts, Franky accepts his invitation to the Straw Hat Pirates. Usopp returns to find that the crew's new ship, the Thousand Sunny has already departed. As the crew is being attacked by Marines, Usopp shouts that he wants to go with them. He makes a final proclamation that he is sorry. Usopp admits that he was wrong, and Luffy extends his hand out to bring him back on board. The ship dodges a giant cannon ball throw by Monkey D. Garp using Coup de Burst. Luffy then holds a toast to the two returning members, the new crewmate, and their new ship.
The scene switches to a cabin inside of a ship, where an injured man is having memories about a man named Vigaro. A boy sits and watches over the man, worried about his physical condition. The scene switches again to a large man lying on a couch. He is surrounded by hanging pirate flags, and a group of people addressing him as "Papa" arrives, asking him if he is staring at his flag collection again. One of the men from the group tells him that they are throwing a wonderful birthday party for him. We then see the boy again, looking concerned about the sick man, when someone else walks into the room. The man addresses the boy as Jiro and says that he will watch the sick man now.
The scene now transfers to the Thousand Sunny, where the crew is enjoying their new ship. Nami is sitting in a large bath tub, Chopper is spinning in his new doctor's chair and talking to himself as Sanji watches through the window. Luffy catches a large shark and Usopp tells him to put it in the fish tank. In the room below the deck, Robin, Franky, and Sanji watch the fish tank and talk about how wonderful the ship is. Luffy and Usopp run to the fish tank, only to find that the shark has eaten all of the other fish. Zoro is sitting in the watchtower on the ship and yawns. Everyone in the fish tank room sits as Franky explains how the ship's Docking System works. 
Nami comes out of the bathroom and goes outside to discover that the crew will soon be coming across a winter island.
The crew soon notices that it is beginning to snow. Zoro looks out the window to see what looks like an abandoned ship. They all comment on how it is strange since it is missing its masts. They see people fishing. Sanji turns the Sunny to travel toward the other's ship. The largest man who is fishing says they won't catch anything without bait. A smaller man says not to say that and be pessimistic. A round man says there isn't anything better to do and looks up to find the Sunny approaching their ship.
The three men are shocked, and Luffy asks if they are alright, only for them to begin shouting to the rest of the crew that pirates have arrived. A few crew members surface from within the ship, including Jiro. The three men who were fishing then beg the Straw Hat Pirates for their lives, leaving the Straw Hat crew confused. They then board the ship and ask the mast-less crew about their condition. The short man who was fishing earlier says that they are a group of fishermen who were attacked three days ago by pirates and begins to cry. The round man comments and says that the Straw Hat Pirates would have nothing to take if they were there to pillage.
Luffy offers them to come aboard the ship and get a meal. Sanji recommends that Chopper should tend to the crew wounds, which he agrees on. The short man from earlier is shocked that Chopper can talk, which angers the reindeer. Chopper then tends to their wounds and one of the men cringes a lot from the treatment. The man who spoke to Jiro at the beginning of the episode walks out of the cabin of his ship to see the Straw Hat Pirates' flag and receives a Den Den Mushi call from a man wearing frilled clothing who asks about what they have found. The first man says that they have come across a rookie ship, which the frilled-clothes wearing man identifies as the Straw Hat Pirates. The man receiving the call is shocked by the number, and the caller tells him to not let them get away.
The scene switches to inside the Thousand Sunny's dining room, where the Straw Hats and the "fishermen" are feasting. The "fishermen" are very grateful and thank Sanji. The large and smaller ones point out how beautiful Nami and Robin are. Then, Chopper is seen putting away his medical equipment after treating Jiro when the boy asks if he can treat one more person in their ship's cabin. Luffy, back in the kitchen, tells the "fishermen" that they are planning on going to the New World, which terrifies the first two fishermen. The rest of the crew seems annoyed with them and equally as scared of the New World. The man who received the call earlier boards the Sunny and gives the crew a barrel of alcohol, introducing himself as Stansen. He throws the barrel to Zoro and says it is special that they have had. The "fishermen" inside the dining room and sit and look tense, and one of them pulls out a vile of poison from his pocket.
The scene changes to Jiro and Chopper entering Jiro's ship looking at the sick man. Chopper is shocked by the man's wounds and says he must operate immediately. Back in the dining room, the Straw Hats mention how peculiar it is to have a lot of alcohol and no food, for Stansen to respond by thanking them for the wonderful meal. Luffy offers Stansen to take them back to their island, which Nami disapproves of. The Sunny then is seen towing the "fishermen's" ship, with Robin looking out the window suspiciously. Chopper has finished the operation in the other ship's cabin and tells Jiro that they can't relax until the wound heals.
The Straw Hat Pirates are shown having fallen asleep on their ship. The fishermen are discussing their plan, with the large and smaller men feeling guilty due to the crew's kindness. One of the other men says they have no choice when Stansen says they will proceed with the mission. The man yells at Stansen, saying that a counterattack would be what Vigaro would want. They are interrupted by Franky, Sanji, and Robin revealing that they knew about the poison and want to know the truth. Zoro looks out the dining room window and says three people will be enough before going back to sleep.
The scene switches back to the large man on the couch as the clock strike midnight. Everyone in the room begins celebrating the large man's birthday as one of the party-goers receives a call from the frilled-clothing wearing man, who tells him about the Straw Hat Pirates large bounty. The man is pleased and says it will be fitting for today before hanging up on the caller. The last scene is a shot of the Thousand Sunny towing the other ship.

The episode opens with Luffy and Chopper on the Phoenix Pirates' ship after Luffy was rescued by Puzzle after falling in the water. Jiro and the other Phoenix pirates argue with the captured Brindo to tell them where their flag is but Puzzle offers his bounty to him in order to let his crew go free. Luffy gets involved and threatens Brindo to tell him the location of the stolen pirate flags. Meanwhile, Don Accino is getting impatient with Campacino waiting for the Straw Hats' flag to arrive in Lovely Land. Nico Robin, still on the Thousand Sunny, attempts to find a way to get Lil to tell her about where the Straw Hats' flag might have gone and asks her where her brother, Hockera, is taking the captured Franky and Nami. The scene changes to Franky and Nami arguing in the Shark being transported by the flying fish and Hockera. Meanwhile, Usopp and Sanji are once again cornered by Salchow and Arbell. Sanji tries to defend himself from their attacks but slips on the ice and bumps into Usopp. He comes up with a "cooperative attack" by standing on Usopp's back and manages to hit Salchow, Arbell landing in his arms. Salchow and Arbell crack the ice with their skates and Usopp and Sanji fall into the cold water, penguins attacking them. They use fishing poles to pull them out of the water. Once again, the scene changes back to the Phoenix Pirates' ship. A Den Den Mushi in Brindo's pocket rings and Jiro pulls it out and answers it, Campacino on the other end of the line. He asks where his brother is and asks him to hurry back, thinking he is speaking to Brindo on the snail. After hanging up the call, Brindo begins to glow bright red while Campacino arrives, glowing bright blue. He busts his younger brother out of his chains and explains why they are glowing. He describes the magnetism that connects the two of them as twins and the two brothers reveal their goal to capture Luffy for his bounty. They begin to attack Luffy together. Meanwhile, Zoro enters a steaming room where Don Accino offers him a drink. Zoro explains that he is looking for his crew mates, unaware that the man before him is an enemy out for his crew's bounties. The scene switches back to Luffy, Brindo and Campacino. The iceberg next to the Phoenix's ship crashes into it and Puzzle breaks it using his chain. Once again the scene changes back to Zoro, where Don Accino explains his collection of Pirate flags and pulls out the Straw hats' flag. Zoro finally understands who he is and demands where he got their flag. Don Accino explains that he is out for his 120,000,000 bounty.

Zoro is in the observation room of the Thousand Sunny. Looking out of the window, he sees something floating on the ocean and alerts the crew. As the others look out, they see it's a barrel and Usopp notes it has the character for "treasure" written on it. They pull it out of the water. Nami step outside and says it probably just has alcohol and food in it. She notes the whole message on the barrel says "Gift to the God of the Sea" and that this is a tradition for people to place those kinds of items in a barrel to pray for a safe journey. After some disappointment and discussion, they decide to open it anyway and drink up the booze.
When they open the barrel, a large red light shoots up and explodes in the sky. The crew is a little shocked. They wonder what it means that there was a flare in the barrel and Robin wonders if it is a mere prank or something more serious. Usopp worry that this was a trap and Robin notes they could be targeted by someone.
At that point, Nami notices changes in the atmosphere and senses a storm coming. She urges everyone to get in position to fight it as they only have five minutes. After some difficulties because of the strength of the storm, Franky uses Channel Zero of the Soldier Dock System and gets them out of the storm.
Zoro notes how dark it has gotten even though it is not nighttime and Luffy mentions they are in the "ghost sea", the Florian Triangle, that Kokoro told them about. At that moment, they start hearing a haunting song sung in the distance while a massive black ship with torn sails slowly approaches them. The crew is stunned and terrified to see the "ghost ship" once they notice it. As the ship passes by the Thousand Sunny, they see a skeleton wearing a suit and an afro and drinking a cup of tea singing softly and watching them. Luffy is excited and wants to rush and see from up close the living skeleton of the legend. Sanji stops him and says he can't go alone or he will find a way to act rashly and get them in trouble. The crew draws straws and Nami and Sanji go with their captain.
Once on the ship, Sanji and Luffy stare in amazement at the skeleton. The skeleton calmly apologizes for not greeting them properly but explains he was so surprised to see real people: all he has seen for years were terrifying ghost ships. He suggests they go inside and talk. He notices Nami and suavely notes how pretty she is. He tidies himself up and matter-of-factly asks if Nami can show him her panties, but the girl decks him. To Sanji's irritation, Luffy wants to know if the skeleton can poop but Sanji insists there are more important questions: who is he and how come he is alive and can talk. Luffy interrupts because he has an even more important question. Luffy offers the skeleton to join his crew and he accepts.

Brook is aboard the Thousand Sunny, greeting everyone, refers to himself as "Just Dead Bones" Brook. Chopper is seen with a cross. Brook approaches Robin, commending her beauty, asks if he could see her panties. Nami comically hits him calling him a perverted skeleton. Usopp gathers exorcism materials and began an attempt to exorcise an evil spirit - Brook. Brook inquired where the evil spirit was and Usopp and Chopper comically answered, saying it was Brook. While in the ship, Brook mentioned he has not had food to eat in so long and requested milk to drink. Luffy, called him "Korobokle" and Brook corrected him. Brook inquired what Luffy's name was and he was told. Then Luffy asked Brook what he was and Zoro comically asked why they did not ask those questions when they first met. Sanji prepared dinner, which they all heartily enjoyed.
After dinner, Brook told the crew he was a Devil Fruit user of Yomi Yomi no Mi. Brook told them he had died once, years past and the Yomi Yomi No Mi grants its user the ability to be resurrected. He told them he was once a pirate like them (which excited Luffy) and he was aboard the ship they found him on. He went on telling them his crew came to the Sea of Devils but were defeated by a stronger pirate crew, killing his crew mates and himself. While he was alive, Brook explained to them that he just simply could not swim. However, after death, his soul returned from the underworld. His soul was unable to find his body on time due to the fog that makes that part of the sea difficult to navigate. It took one year for his soul to find his body and by then, he had decomposed to bones. Zoro asked how Brook still has his hair, and Brook responded saying he has tough roots.
Usopp asked if Brook was a human or ghost and Brook responded that he was scared of ghosts. On hearing that, Nami brought out a mirror so as to show Brook how he looked. Brook was very scared at seeing the mirror. That was when Usopp and Chopper realized that Brook had no reflection and shadow. They referred to him as a vampire and the crew was ready to attack except Luffy, who thought Brook was awesome. Brook told them, him being a skeleton and having no shadow are unrelated. He told them he cannot live or see the sunlight because his shadow is stolen. Robin asks what would happen if Brook saw the sunlight and he answered that he would disintegrate. He then told them of an incident he witnessed when a person who had no shadow comes in contact with sunlight.
Brook, yet after telling his story was still delighted. He told the crew of how he had aimlessly traveled that sea lonely and scared and waiting to die, however, he lived on. He told them they were his joy. Brook, at that point, refused Luffy's offer to join his crew, saying if he left the covers of the fog, it would be a matter of time before he disintegrates. He told them he would wait until he gets his shadow back. Luffy was upset at Brook's statement and told Brook, if Brook needed his shadow, he would get it back for him. Luffy, demanded who the person was but Brook refused to tell him. Then, Brook decided to play music for them stating he was the past crew's musician. Luffy, excited that Brook is a musician, said Brook must join his crew. Just as Brook was about to play a song, he noticed a hollow and yelled "Ghost" and a rocking feeling was felt on the ship.
Upon coming out to see what had happened, the crew noticed a huge object on their course. Brook told them it was the back of the gate and told the Straw Hat crew to come look at the back of the ship. Reaching there, they were surprised by what they saw. Brook then asked if they picked up a floating barrel. Luffy had a flashback of picking up a floating barrel, and told Brook they did. Brook told them it was a trap and their ship has been targeted after that incident. Luffy asked why an island was there and Brook responded telling them it is the wandering ghost island - Thriller Bark.

Nami notices that her Log Pose has not reacted to the presence of the island. Brook explains that is because Thriller Bark is an island that drifted from West Blue. As he walks inside and picks up his cane, Brook tells the Straw Hat crew that this is a lucky day because he both met them and now sees one of his dearest wishes finally realized. He opens the door on the other side of the kitchen and jumps in the air on the prow. Sanji remarks on how light he is. Brook then bids farewell to the crew. He urges them to quickly make their way out of the gate away from this island and thanks them for the meal. He suggests fate may make them cross paths again some day. He then jumps off the boat altogether and to the crew's amazement, he runs on the water away from them.
Nami then suggests they follow his advice and sail away as fast as they can but from Luffy's facial expression the others realize he wants to go on the island. Chopper worries about the ghost they saw earlier but Zoro saw it fly towards the island. Robin then points out to the rest of the crew what probably happened earlier when the boat shook. The "mouth-like" gate probably enclosed them in a fence wall that runs all around the island. They are trapped. Franky also points out that they are in the middle of the sea which means they can't drop anchor. Nami and Chopper sob they have the "can't get on this island" disease but Luffy is ready and raring to go. He has a net and a box to catch a ghost and keep it as a pet! Usopp is appalled and try to dissuade him. Robin also suggests she wants to go and it is decided Luffy, Robin and Franky will go explore the island.
Franky suggests they need to use Soldier Dock System Channel 2 to get on the island. He explains the Soldier Dock System system and unveils his "present" to the crew: Channel 2 is a steam-powered Mini Merry II that can seat four people. As they will be staying on the Thousand Sunny, Nami, Chopper and Usopp are invited to test run the Mini-Merry first while the others watch from the boat. Everybody is thrilled and excited and Luffy is dying to try it too. As the people still on the boat are talking, Nami is heard screaming in the distance. Sanji runs to the side of the boat but nobody can see anything in the fog.
Suddenly the anchor is dropped without anyone visibly dropping it. Franky notes the gears sound much more worn out than they should be on a brand-new boat. A trapdoor on the lawn deck abruptly opens and everybody is puzzled. There shouldn't be anyone else on the boat. Luffy's face start stretching and as Sanji yells at him to stop goofing around, Luffy protests he isn't doing anything. One of Zoro's katanas is taken out of its scabbard and thrown in the air at Luffy who is on the floor after his face was stretched back. Franky jumps in and kicks Luffy out of the way before he gets injured. Franky yells at Zoro who protests it wasn't him. Everybody realizes that there must be someone else on the boat with them.
Franky speculates the culprit is a ghost or a Devil's Fruit user. Luffy confirms he did feel someone grabbing him and Robin says she heard the growl of a wild beast. Sanji is worried about Nami and decides to jump off the ship to go after the missing members of the crew. However as he jumps, something grabs his leg and starts throwing him around and back on the ship. Franky is shocked the "ghost" won't let them leave the ship. Robin starts screaming and is seen pushing back against something that is pushing onto her and we see the signs she is being licked by something. Sanji is furious and runs to protect her but he is tripped by an unseen obstacle. A beast is indeed heard growling.
The sea starts becoming tormented with big waves that Franky speculates must be artificial since they are inside the fence. Everybody is confused what to do and Sanji is worried they are going to be separated from Nami and the others. Franky suggests they use his "Flying Surprise Pool" to overcome the waves.
Back on the island, Nami, Chopper and Usopp have fallen down a very deep ditch that is located between the actual island and the sea. She explains they were having too much fun with the Mini-Merry and probably bumped into the embankment that she did not see because of the fog and got thrown into the ditch. Chopper and Usopp are upset and scared that they are on the ghost island. The bottom of the ditch is full of skulls and bones which does not help calm their nerves. Nami hopes her cuteness will help them forgive her for putting them in this predicament. Usopp hopes Luffy will find them there but they debate whether it would be wiser to wait on the bank above instead.
Suddenly a three-headed dog appear in the dark. As the three stranded Straw Hat Pirates are shocked, Chopper realize this must be Cerberus, the guard dog of hell! Nami, Usopp and Chopper start running away, with Cerberus in tow chasing them. Chopper notices that one of the three heads is the head of a fox, not of a dog, which seems to anger Cerberus even more. Everybody is confused where they are and what is going on. As they run they find a large staircase that seems to lead to the island proper.
Upstairs they find themselves in a forest. Usopp uses a Kemuri Boshi to create smoke and once it clears, the Cerberus cannot find them anywhere. The beast starts moving further into the forest while Nami, Usopp and Chopper are  actually hiding up in a tree. Usopp remarks that the beast does not seem to have the developed sense of smell of a normal dog. The three Straw Hat Pirates wonder what to do now. With Cerberus running around, they can't be walking around in the open.
A voice behind them confirms they are in danger. It is a vampire-looking man who is hanging upside down on a tree branch. He introduces himself as Hildon. He says he saw them being chased by Cerberus and followed them secretly to protect them in case of trouble. He says that, as nighttime is falling, the forest is indeed going to become dangerous for them and maybe they should ride his carriage with him back to Doctor Hogback's mansion.
Chopper reacts with shock to hearing Doctor Hogback's name.

Usopp, Nami, and Chopper take up Hildon's offer in accompanying them to the mansion while they traverse through the forest via carriage. Inside the carriage, they discuss about the strange creatures in the forest with Hildon telling the three that it is dangerous at night and that the mansion is the best place to wait for the rest of the crew. Chopper excitedly asks if they can really meet Dr. Hogback, a doctor whom he idolizes, and explains to Usopp and Nami who he is, telling them that he is a renowned surgical genius who suddenly disappeared without a trace. While Hildon is telling Chopper that Dr. Hogback is in the mansion, Nami is shocked when she looks through the window and saw a lion with a man's face, and started screaming, scaring Usopp and Chopper as well. Usopp asks what she was screaming about. When she told about the lion he didn't believe her so they looked out the window again only to find many strange creatures, but after blinking the creatures were gone, prompting there to become more scared.
Nami and Usopp wants the carriage to stop and go back but Hildon explains that what they saw were possibly just illusions made by the fog. Chopper is saddened by their decision to go back, but Usopp managed to convince him. When the three made up their mind to go back, Hildon told them to stay put inside while he talks to the carriage driver. However, after a few minutes of waiting, Usopp decides to check on Hildon and ask what's taking so long, only to see that there was no one there and that they are in the middle of a graveyard. The three freaks out and tried to calm themselves, but then zombies started to rise from the earth. The three tried to hide in the carriage but a zombie grabbed Usopp and dragged him out, while other zombies turn over the carriage, forcing Nami and Chopper out. Nami hear Usopp scream and saw him getting bitten by zombies. As Nami try to get to Usopp, she is grabbed by a zombie that suddenly popped up from underneath her, causing here to fall on her knees as the zombie try to bite her while a platoon of zombies surrounds her.
Chopper run towards Usopp in his Heavy Point, helps Usopp and knocks the head of a zombie, but is shocked when the zombie put his head back. Nami screams for help, and Usopp used Hisatsu Kayenboshi to start a fire, startling the zombies making them let go of Nami. They used this to run away from the zombies, with Usopp telling the two that zombies move slow, making running impossible, which got the zombies mad and run after them at a fast pace, shocking the three. However, the zombies soon run out of stamina giving the three pirates a chance to escape.
Meanwhile, on the Thousand Sunny, the rest of the crew tries to steer the ship but the helm is stuck because of the current causing it to run into a gigantic spiderweb, entangling it and making it hard to get out.
Nami, Chopper, and Usopp continue into the forest, eventually arriving at the gate of the mansion. Having no other choice, they decide to go in where they are welcomed by Cindry. She then starts throwing plates at Usopp stating that he cannot enter the mansion while the other two can. Eventually, a man came out and greeted them, saying that they are welcome inside and explains that Cindry was once engaged to a man whom she tested his love for her by breaking his most valuable plates, causing him to abandon her, thus making her negative. He introduces himself as Dr. Hogback. Cindry invited the three inside and locks the door, leaving Hogback outside.
In the dining room, Hogback ask why they came in his mansion. Chopper says he wants to talk to Hogback while Nami and Usopp tells him that they were chased by zombies. Hogback is surprised to see them escape the zombies and tells them that he had no idea what they are, and says that they are the reason why he is living here to study them. Chopper, amazed by Hogback, roots for him and asked for his autograph, which Hogback willingly give. However, when Chopper asked if he can see Hogback's lab to which he angrily stated that he, Chopper, will never see his lab. Afterwards, Cindry came back, serving them flans without plates, and telling the three that the bath is ready for them to get clean. Usopp then ask Hogback if he saw a skeleton man pass by the mansion, to which he answered nervously with a "No".   

After the dinner with Dr. Hogback, Nami decides to take a bath with Usopp and Chopper guarding the bathroom door. Chopper states that he wants to take a peek in Hogback's lab while Usopp complains to Nami that if she is scared, she should not take a bath, which she replies that when night falls, they will leave the mansion. The two boys complain saying that they won't make a move for now and that they will wait for Luffy and the others. Nami then says that there are abnormal presences in the mansion as well, scaring the two. She states that she also suspects that Dr. Hogback was lying when he said that he does not have a relationship with the zombies. She heard a growl and voice, thinking it was Usopp or Chopper. Suddenly, invisible hands grab her arms and pins her on the wall. The invisible man continues to growl at Nami, stating that she will be his bride. Usopp and Chopper burst through the door, panicked, when Nami tells them that someone else is in the bathroom with them. Usopp, however, only ends up seeing Nami completely naked and pervertedly thanks her for "letting" him see her naked, confusing Chopper. With quick thinking, she kicks her unknown assaulter in the groin, freeing from restraint. Chopper uses his sense of smell to check if he is still there, while Usopp attacks the invisible man, though he escapes. Nami, startled and briefly traumatized from the attack, wraps a towel around her naked body to cover herself. Usopp asks Nami is she is okay, to which she replies that the invisible man knows their plan.
Meanwhile, the Thousand Sunny is immobilized after getting stuck in the spiderweb. Zoro suspects that everything that happened after Nami, Usopp, and Chopper disappeared is a trap, but Luffy insists in exploring the island while searching for Nami, Usopp, and Chopper, prompting Zoro to join them. On their way to the forest, they came across Cerberus, which they scared when they reacted differently than others would have. Luffy tries to tame it but all three heads bites him, making him punch them, thus, taming it. The crew continue their search for the three. In the forest, they encounter two strange creatures: a talking tree and a unicorn. Franky and Luffy run after them, and eventually catches, making Luffy ask the two to join their crew, which Zoro and Sanji objects.
Outside the mansion, Hogback and the invisible man, Absalom, talk with Absalom saying that he will make Nami his bride, but Hogback refuses to hand her because of her bounty. Then a ghost came saying that all the crew members have bounties on their head. Hogback says to Absalom that he needs to go all out in order to capture Luffy, because of his 300,000,000 bounty.
Inside, Usopp argues with Nami in the hallway about the invisible man in the bathroom. Usopp continues to state that zombies and other abnormal phenomenons that occurred were not real, with the exception of Brook because of his devil fruit. He asks Chopper for support by saying that aside from Brook's power, there is no other way to resurrect the dead. Chopper says that in a medical point of view there may be a natural explanation on this, but since Hogback threw his glory for his research, Chopper believes that there may be miracles on the island. Nami tries to tell Chopper that he trusts Hogback too much, but Chopper defends him and ask the two proof that Hogback has a connection to those zombies. Nami argues that it is obvious, even calling Hogback the "King of Zombies". Usopp stop the two from arguing further, and Chopper went ahead to talk to Hogback to clear things out, with Usopp and Nami following.
They arrive in the dining room but it is pitch black, and that no one was there. Suddenly, the light went on, and they saw Hildon hanging upside down. He says that Dr. Hogback and Cindry have already gone to bed, however upon seeing him, Usopp got mad for leaving them in the middle of the graveyard. Hildon apologize and try to 'guide' them back to their rooms but the Nami and Usopp refused to believe his excuses, saying that they plan to leave; Chopper is reluctant, saying that he wants to talk to Hogback one more time. Then, they heard a voice belonging to a woman inside a portrait, shocking the three pirates. The woman came out of the portrait, shocking them further, and grabs Chopper. The other zombies attack them, with one taxidermy zombie stating that he is the captain of the zombies there. A Bear-skin rug zombie attack Usopp, thinking that Usopp was the one who stabbed him, and throws him, making him hang on the chandelier. Overwhelmed, Usopp threw a candle at the zombie, setting it on fire. The other zombies try to attack him, but Usopp retaliates by throwing all the candles at them, giving the three a chance to escape. However, the door is locked, trapping them inside the mansion while the zombies start to recover, wanting to get revenge on them.

Nami, Chopper, and Usopp are trying to escape from the zombies but the doors are locked, as they find a fireplace, and the three attempt to block the passage preventing them to enter. The three enter in Cindry's room and Nami reads the book about her past of being an actress of how she died on the stage. Nami sees a treasure chest and asks Usopp to open it but when he does it turns out to be a Jack-in-the-Box zombie. Usopp, Nami, and Chopper then escape. Ryuma comes up and talks to the zombies never to fear and that he shall herd them up and laughs maniacally like Brook did. While Luffy and the crew are riding with Cerberus on the forest, Sanji tells Luffy that the skeleton was bad enough and that they do not need trees and unicorns on the crew and that they already got Chopper (by referring to him as raccoon dog) and Franky (by referring to him as a robot) and that this is messed up enough. Franky starts telling Sanji that he is not a robot, he is a cyborg, and the two argue. Robin then takes notice of how everything they have encountered since they came on the island has had bandages, stitches, and numbers tattooed on their bodies.

Luffy questions the zombie groups intentions. They inform him they are hanging out in the graveyard. He then interrogates on where Nami, Chopper and Usopp might be, but they refuse to talk. As the Straw Hat captain is about to hit them, the zombie admit they didn't harm them. The Straw Hat group begins to beat them up and begin to check Dr. Hogback's home. A person carrying a torch approaches the beaten zombies.
While walking through the forest, Zoro and Sanji get into another argument when another zombie comes in awe of their power. This zombie informs the group of a major threat who stole the zombie shadows, Gecko Moria the most terrifying on the island. This catches Robin's ears as his bounty's much higher than Luffy's and one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea. The old zombie also warns that Gecko Moria will also be after the Straw Hat Pirate's shadows and when the sunlight hits them, they will be vaporized. Luffy picks up his lantern and accepts the challenge. Just then, more zombies without shadows appear to encourage the group.
Meanwhile, Ryuma knocks Nami, Usopp and Chopper into Dr. Hogback's lab, surprising and angering the scientist. The three pirates try to apologize, and Hogbacks warns that the "night raid" will commence and anyone walking after midnight will be killed. The invisible man spots the buried zombies and plucks them out of the ground. He then begins the awakening of the Zombie Soldiers and they rise again. Absalom reveals himself and the soldiers chant his name. They then call him a pervert and Absalom calls for silence. The ghosts creeping through the forest gather to Kumacy and a girl's chambers, forming Perona up.
As more zombies race to inform Moria, one of the short zombies Nin wakes their boss up. The three little zombies tell of the Straw Hat's progress thus far. Luffy and his party spot rain pouring down and they spot a pirate sail. The old zombie then warns that Thriller Bark has a sail and is actually a very large pirate ship. The back of the mast is also the home of Gecko Moria. Absalom then begins the order to hunt down the pirates at the stroke of midnight. Perona prepares for battle and Moria announces that Thriller Bark will give nightmares. Meanwhile, Luffy begins to head inside.

The zombie soldiers march through the forest carrying a large orb. Meanwhile in Hogback's lab, Nami learns the truth about how Hogback was making the zombies. She also tells of how Cindry died ten years prior. Having been found out, Hogback orders Cindry and Ryuma to kill the group. Ryuma then walks into the lab laughing like Brook and admiring Nami even without his eyes. He almost gets to glare at Nami's panties but is denied. The navigator begins to wonder about Brook's personality being replicated by the samurai. Ryuma was once from the kingdom of Wano. The skeletal samurai dashes through with nothing happening at first and asks for a sandwich from Cindry. The group almost makes it out, but Ryuma's power knocks the three down. Ryuma then says he used the Three-Verse Humming: Arrow Notch Slash.
The zombie soldiers continue their march while Luffy's inspecting the mansion grounds while searching for Moria. He and his party find an empty room full of seemingly harmless portraits. Just then, Buhichuck, the living Bear Rug and the portrait zombies begin their surprise attack. Luffy begins to smile while Sanji interrogates the portrait monsters. Robin also uses the twist on some of the portrait zombies and Franky breaks another's spear using his brute strength. Zoro also uses Nigiri to cut through some portrait zombies too and Luffy leads the Bear Rug zombie on a wild goose chase ending with the Straw Hat using the Gum-Gum Bazooka to knock the bear down. Buhichuck is in shock seeing his allies beaten.
Meanwhile in Hogback's lab, Nami, Usopp and Chopper are trapped in a coffin to be disposed of. The soldiers trek through and eventually reach Moria's mansion. Buhichuck then tries to make an excuse that three of Luffy's crew are sleeping upstairs, but Franky notices Sanji had disappeared. Zoro begins to fear for the worst, and Luffy is confident that their cook can survive. Robin insists on taking the mounted pig as a guide while the portrait zombies are laughing and insist they go with them. The zombies warn that when they fight Moria, they will be wiped out one-by-one. Luffy then warns if any harm comes to his crew, he'll beat Moria so hard it would take Thriller Bark apart. As they take Buhichuck as a guide and the pig warns the Surprise Zombies are downed. The orb the zombie soldiers brought in was a disco ball and they sing a massive song to begin their Night Raid. Absalom heads into a casket room and awakes the General Zombies out of their coffins and out of the ground. Nami, Usopp, and Chopper's coffin is then ferried out of the mansion. Absalom concludes his speech to teach the Straw Hat pirates the meaning of fear.

After awakening the General Zombies, Absalom is accosted by Lola, a zombie warthog obsessed with making him her husband. After learning that he has chosen Nami to be his bride, Lola sets her sights on the navigator. Nami, Usopp, and Chopper manage to escape their coffin and find themselves in a garden, surrounded by animal zombies, including a bizarre penguin-bulldog zombie named Inuppe who talks and acts a lot like Sanji. The other Straw Hats, meanwhile, discover a hallway lined with suits of armor, and realize that Zoro is now missing as well.   

The Straw Hats are beginning to wonder where Sanji and Zoro are. A golden knight begins walking towards Luffy's party with a Straw Hat and falls over. It is Luffy in disguise. Franky then tells of how his heart became black. Buhichuck then brings Luffy's party to a room full of tents. Then a knight dives down to hit Franky who dodges. It is a General Zombie. This knighted zombie fights with Franky and is unable to pierce him. The knight launches a cross-shaped projectile that can cut steel. The cyborg then shoots a Weapons Left at the knight. The knight gets back up and cuts through Franky then goes for Luffy and Robin, when the cyborg throws it back. Buhichuck then points out how the General Zombies can take more hits. Among them are a knight, a criminal, a samurai and also a gunslinger. The wall then closes behind Buhichuck. Then, more Zombie Generals with armor appear and give Luffy's party trouble. Robin knows that on escaping, they could be in the courtyard. The Straw Hats then begin the offensive. Meanwhile, Absalom is trying to outrun Lola who is determined to marry the zombie. Absalom shows his desire to marry Nami while the warthog zombie seeks to kill Nami.
Inuppe using Sanji's personality protects Nami, Chopper and Usopp from the animal zombies. This leaves the navigator wondering about the penguin-dog's personality. Elsewhere, Perona begins to steal the goods from the Thousand Sunny. Zoro is imprisoned in Gecko Moria's chambers and is knocked out by another slash. He lays beside an also captive Sanji. Franky uses his Strong Right on a large zombie, Robin ties up a few with the Trienta Fleurs, while Luffy bashes some. However, the zombies get back up and it would seem Luffy's party is in trouble. As the group of Zombie Generals get up, a warrior uses the 36 Caliber Phoenix to cut through several zombies. First, Luffy thinks it is Zoro, but it is actually a warrior using sabers with scars all over his body, Jigoro. This warrior declares Luffy his enemy and desires to kill the captain. Franky begins to have trouble when Robin swings to rescue her friend and they run along a catwalk. The cyborg then blows a Fresh Fire, and the zombies drench themselves with water. The archeologist uses an Once Fleurs and Slam to try and stall the zombies. As they race to the outside, they begin to learn that Luffy had gone missing. Luffy is also trapped in a casket and ferried to another part of the castle. A spider-monkey-like zombie then appears blocking the way. The two begin to feel outnumbered.

Inuppe continues to pummel more animal zombies with his kicks. The dog-penguin zombie gives a speech about how love is a hurricane. He then goes hostile towards Usopp and Chopper. Just then, Lola arrives targeting Nami while Absalom is trying to stop her rampage. The warthog then begins to flirt with the zombie and demands his love trying to kiss Absalom. After a number of missed kisses, Absalom knocks Lola off. The warthog then accuses Nami for stealing her love, but Inuppe breaks Lola's axe. The angry love-crazed zombie then punches the penguin-dog zombie away.
Absalom then kidnaps Nami whilst invisible and begins to prepare his wedding ceremony. That is when Usopp and Chopper recognize Absalom as the man who snuck in on Nami's bath. The navigator then blasts Absalom with a Thunder Charge, releasing his grip allowing the three Straw Hats to flee. Just then, Absalom begins to feel love for Nami while Lola gives chase. The animal zombies worry about the punishment Perona will lay on them, while Inuppe begins to feel weak. The Wild Zombies then disobey Absalom's word but are stopped by a loud command from the lion-faced zombie tells them he will not tolerate misconduct. Inuppe then warns no one will hurt Nami, but Absalom launches his right hand at the dog-penguin zombie. The lion-faced zombie then warns the dog-penguin to watch his mouth.
As Nami's party continues to run away from Lola, Nami plans to use Usopp and Chopper as shields against the warthog-zombie. However, the two get up unscathed. Lola readies her swords to strike Nami who defends herself with her clima-tact. Usopp and Chopper dive onto the warthog but she still won't give up. Meanwhile, Tararan and the Zombie Generals corner Franky and Robin who learn they were taken via caskets to Moria's chambers. Tararan reveals he used a web to restrain the Thousand Sunny and hiding is useless. As Franky prepares to make a last stand with his Coup de Vent, the bridge is crippled, sending the zombies falling down. Robin uses her Cien Fleurs Wings to fly and catch her friend. Franky latches to the building where Luffy was taken and Robin arrives safely while the cyborg crashes into a wall. Tararan gets up and just then, Brook falls down from the sky and makes a hard landing.

Lola continues her relentless pursuit of Nami showing she would marry Absalom no matter. She knocks Usopp and chopper away and almost kills her when Nami claims she's a man posing as a woman. Nami then points out the warthog-zombie should chase after Absalom instead and Lola begins to feel hope in her heart. Nami tells her it was "friendship" and the zombie calls her a friend. The zombie tells of how Absalom has been ignoring her and the navigator advises she needs to knock out the lion-faced zombie and make him sign the wedding papers. Nami then learns of some valuable treasure which is near Perona's room.
Usopp steps on a stick and learns of Absalom walking by. Lola then charges at the zombie still desiring to marry him. With her ploy working, Nami then begins to trek for the mansion's treasure room. Midget zombies then carry the captured Luffy to Moria's chambers. Perona is angry that the Thousand Sunny doesn't have much treasure on board but steals some food and money. Hildon then calls for a meeting with the Mysterious Three and calls for the birth of zombie No. 900. Moria learns of Luffy's skill and announces his intentions to make the Straw Hat pirate his pawn in becoming Pirate King. Lola becomes angry that Absalom hasn't come out of hiding. Absalom is coming for the three and they find a hiding spot with a zipper. They don't see they are hiding in Kumacy. The lion-faced zombie is scolded by Perona for coming into her chambers but is then called in for a meeting.
Hildon also reports that Brook is on the loose. Meanwhile, Tararan uses webbing to get to where Franky and Robin are and the cyborg plans to make a spider-smasher to buy time. The spider-monkey uses a Sticky Spider Net to launch a web projectile, but then Robin uses a Cies Fleur to slap his eyes and make his eyesight messed up. Franky then shows some columns chained together and smashes Tararan hard. Eventually, the spider-monkey entraps the columns, but is then shot by a Weapons Left. Just then, Robin is entrapped by the Spider Mice and Tararan entraps Franky too. The mice then admit they kidnapped the other Straw Hats to be transported to Moria. Then Brook's singing is heard. Tararan is annoyed by this, and Brook sees how the Straw Hats came to Thriller Bark all along. The skeleton then says he would quicken the fight. He then uses the Three-Verse Humming: Arrow Notch Slash to cut through Tararan.

Tararan is in genuine pain, much to the shock of Robin and the spider mice. Franky warns Brook that Tararan is a zombie and therefore won't be defeated by a simple cutting move. Brook confidently tells him that the spider-monkey is, indeed finished, since zombies actually have a weakness that Brook has identified. Tararan's agony becomes more violent and a black substance flies out of his mouth towards the sky. Brook explains that it is his soul returning to its "master". Tararan collapses and loses consciousness. The spider mice are shocked and upset. Franky wants to know what happened and Brook states this was "purification".
The spider mice suddenly recognize Brook as the "Humming Brook" who caused a ruckus on the island five years ago. They rush inside to inform Moria about it. Brook tells Franky that while the spider web is immune to brute force, it can be destroyed by fire which, sure enough, Franky illustrates with his fire breath. Once free, Franky and Robin confronts Brook about his knowledge of the island. Brook is concerned about the members of the Straw Hat crew that have already been captured and whether it is too late for them. After a bit of goofing around, Franky finally gets Brook to tell them what he knows.
Brook tells them of spending the years after his "death" drifting on the sea on a ship with a broken rudder. Five years ago though, he was led to Thriller Bark. Hoping to find a way to repair his ship and finally escape the Florian Triangle, he went in to investigate. He found the zombies and ended up being captured. He was brought to the building they currently stand in front of. There he saw a combat dancer and a patched corpse (called a "marionette"). Then a huge man, Moria, tore the dancer's shadow from the floor and inserted it into the corpse who then suddenly came to life, replicating the moves of the dancer, while the dancer himself lost consciousness. Soon thereafter, the same thing happened to Brook himself.
Brook explains that a shadow is a replicate soul that follows you everywhere. Gecko Moria, thanks to his Kage Kage no Mi, seizes them and makes them obey his will. He uses a corpse, usually the corpse of legendary warriors, sometimes sown together from different pieces by Doctor Hogback, to transfer the shadow soul into and revive them. It combines the physical strength of the body of the marionette and the personality and fighting skills of the shadowed soul. This is why Moria is particularly eager to find bounty heads to capture. Because of that strength though, the original owners of the shadow are generally sent away and left drifting at sea after they lose consciousness, which worries Franky and Robin. But Brook figures they still have some time before that happens to the captured Straw Hats. Brook has a plan and orders the other two to follow it. Franky is reluctant but Robin asks Brook to tell them what it is.
Inside, Gyoro, Nin, and Bao announce the arrival of the "Three Mysterious Persons". Dr Hogback, Perona and Absalom enter the room and stand in front of Moria whose face and gigantic body are finally revealed. He tells them how eager he is to become Pirate King but Luffy, who is tied up with spider web string in a cage in the same room, yells that he will be the one who becomes Pirate King, not Moria!
Luffy yells at Moria to give Zoro, Sanji, Nami and the others back. Dr Hogback admires Luffy's strength but Perona is skeptical whether Luffy is the type of man who would actually be a threat to the World Government. Luffy and Absalom bicker about the armor Luffy is wearing and "romance".
Moria tells Luffy he only captured three members of his crew so far: Luffy himself, Zoro and a "blonde guy with no wanted poster". Luffy surmises it must be Sanji. Inside Kumashi, Nami and Chopper are eavesdropping and the three of them are shocked that the three strongest members of the crew got captured. Moria asks Perona about the missing three members and Perona says the Risky Brothers never showed up with them. She assumes they must have escaped. Kumashi approaches to try and tell them about them being hidden inside his body but Perona shushes him again. Absalom tells the others of the fight those three Straw Hats had in Perona's garden then suddenly worries Hogback did something to "his bride" Nami. As they bicker, Cindry interrupts with some putdowns.
Moria interrupts pointing out they can capture the missing pirates later. He wanted them here to show them the creation of Moria's new great fighting asset. Suddenly a scream is heard and Luffy, still tied up with spider web string and in the armor, is crawling around the room. Bao tells Moria that Luffy bit through his cage to escape! Hogback is excited by Luffy's fighting spirit but as Absalom raises his hand to attack, Perona points out that because they are inside, it is better if she takes care of it. Perona starts running after Luffy and Luffy, still crawling, taunts her. But three of the "negative ghosts" come out of Perona's body and aim straight for Luffy who can't crawl fast enough away from them. As they pass through his body, Luffy stops crawling, goes into the fetal position and wishes sadly he was reborn as a sea slug. Absalom notes with a mix of admiration and dread how the negative ghosts were able to destroy the spirit of the "man who wants to be Pirate King".
A while later, Luffy is seen without the armor but still tied up in the spider string. This time, he is also hanging to the ceiling with some more string while standing in front of Moria. His spirit is back and he is still grunting and cursing Moria. A large light source is turned on behind Luffy and Moria leans over to grab the shadow Luffy's body is creating on the floor. He picks it up from the floor, dragging Luffy along with it. Nami, Usopp and Chopper, still hidden inside Kumashi, watch in horror. Luffy is shocked and yells at him to stop. Moria pulls out a gigantic pair of scissors and cuts the shadow from Luffy's body. Luffy falls on the floor and loses consciousness. Moria laughs and celebrates that he now has Luffy's shadow with the 300,000,000 fighting power. He proclaims his intention to use it to create the "Ultimate Special Zombie".

Having stolen Luffy's shadow, Moria now has the means to give a new life to Oars to the horrors of Nami, Usopp and Chopper. Perona begins to be suspicious of Kumacy thinking he's talking. The three Straw Hats begin to make funny noises in the bear zombie. Hogback tells of how he has preserved the No. 900 zombie and the three henchpeople of Moria begin to think of their dreams. It wouldn't be very long for Moria to build an empire of zombies. In the freezer, Oars lays while Gyoro, Nin, and Bao head to get him. Absalom orders Luffy's body be placed on his ship when he hears reports of Tararan's defeat at Brook's hands.
Brook tells Franky and Robin to get back to the Thousand Sunny and warns with even without the shadow, the body still lives. They learn that Moria intends to leave the Thousand Sunny adrift with the bodies of the victims. Brook then warns the two must not lose their shadows and must try to wake up their bodies. He then gives out some salt to purify the zombies. Brook then informs of how he has a desire to fight the zombie who holds possession of his shadow, Ryuma. The skeleton then declares he won't run any longer and leaves the group. Franky then asks a question. Hogback is infuriated on how Brook's weapon against the zombies. Perona is intrigued of the Humming Swordsman. Moria then sees the No. 900 zombie in the freezer, while the Spider Mice move to place Luffy on the ship. Usopp realizes the captain is still alive.
Captain John and the Zombie Generals are in shock over Tararan's defeat. Jigoro then plans to kill the remaining Straw Hats. Franky is crying profusely about while running up some stairs with Robin. Meanwhile, the Surprise Zombies are cut through by Brook and purified. The Humming Swordsman then thinks of his last battle with Ryuma and how he lost. This makes the skeleton determined to win and get back his shadow. In the freezer, Moria and his entourage learn of how Oars was the Continent Puller and made a country of criminals. Moria then sees the lifeless Oars and the group are in shock and awe. Moria then prepares for the process to revive Oars.

Moria walks along the chains to the lifeless Oars being watched by his minions as well as the horrified Straw Hats. No matter how the shadow of Luffy struggles, Moria holds the shadow and makes it swear loyalty.
The zombie then places Luffy's shadow into Oars, making the giant monster begin to feel new life and break the chains binding it. Nami's party is horrified as the monster opens his eyes.
The Straw Hats make loud noises and are noticed by Absalom and Perona. Gyoro, Nin, and Bao block the exit.
Oars drops an ice block, hitting Dr. Hogback who admires his masterpiece. Oars then yells for meat in a distorted version of Luffy's voice and calls for Sanji. The yell blows Nami's party out of the room and they try to escape.
Chopper realizes that Dr. Hogback is the one making the zombies and they steal personalities with the shadows inside them. The reindeer knows that Hogback is using people like pawns. Usopp knows they must save the bodies of the other pirates in their crew. Just then, Absalom lights Usopp and Chopper on fire and abducts Nami so he can marry her. Usopp tries to save his friend with the Viper Star Six but the lion-faced zombie and Nami disappear.
Absalom then orders some zombie knights to capture Usopp and Chopper. The zombie soldiers then demand for their shadows and overpower them, but the two pirates break free and race back up the stairs. They are completely surrounded until Franky and Robin purify the zombies. The zombies are horrified about how their secret was ratted out, but Franky has failed to save Nami while Usopp and Chopper cry in joy.

Brook runs up a flight of stairs, and confronts Ryuma in a room, calmly waiting for him there. Ryuma asks if he knows what giving up means, to which Brook replies he will never give up until he reclaims what he has lost. Ryuma states that he is a legendary dragon slaying swordsman and that the level of their bodies are different, but Brook disagrees, saying that he is his shadow and will fight to return him to his rightful position- under Brook's feet.
Elsewhere, a group of zombies express their shock at people other than "that humming guy" knowing about their weakness, stating that despite not being able to die is their catchphrase, it is useless if they are terrified of being destroyed.
Robin, Franky, Usopp and Chopper are running down a flight of stairs, to which the former claims is used to transport stolen shadows. Usopp realizes that the zombies from before were transporting Luffy. He and Chopper worry about Nami, but Usopp says that since her life isn't in danger, they'll definitely go back to save her. Franky replies that that is the exact reason they need to return to the Sunny, wake up the Monster Trio and take back their shadows. Chopper states that it won't be easy due to the amount of zombies, while Usopp asks just how they were able to defeat the group from before. Franky responded, saying that Brook had been the one to tell them of the zombie's weakness, recalling how both he and Robin were given small pouches while Brook explained the vulnerability of zombies to salt. Chopper expresses surprise at the zombies having a weakness, while Usopp realizes that by throwing salt into their mouths, the purification is complete and the shadows are released. Robin asks about the monstrous roar they heard earlier, which Franky says they heard and tracked it, to which Usopp responded that it had been Luffy's voice, and that he and Chopper will explain what they saw later, and that it has become an unbelievable matter.
Meanwhile, hordes of zombies are bringing food to Oars complaining about how the entire island's food supply will be gone at this rate. Many are watching Oars eat in awe, with Moria commenting on his outstanding appetite. Perona is scolding Kumashi for hiding pirates, silencing any attempt for Kumashi to defend himself, as it is "uncute". Oars apologizes to Moria as "leek guy", saying that even though he didn't even know his own identity, he still forced Moria to feed him; and even if the food is horrible he can't stop eating. The other zombies protest at Oars' rude behavior to their master, but immediately cowered and apologized upon making eye contact with the Special Zombie. Oars complains of his hunger, and that the food he has now is still not enough. Moria calmly replies that he'll give him as much food as he needs, but the zombies claim that there is nearly no more food left in the mansion. Cindry replies that there are emergency rations in the store room of Hogback's mansion, though the latter argues that if they let Oars eat it all then it ruins the point of the food being for emergencies. Nevertheless, Moria orders three zombies to go out and retrieve the food, with many following behind. The food from the storage is brought back, while Cindry watches Oars eating and claims there to be some salted fish in the food as well. The three zombies panic and rush to find it, barely preventing Oars from consuming it. Moria explains to Oars his past life and that now he has been reborn to serve him as an underling. Oars refuses, stating he has a dream, and the place he's in is small and boring, and that he would like to go out for a while, perhaps travel the seas and check out the world. He proceeds to use a Gomu Gomu no Pistol and punches his way out of the freezer, much to the shock and horror of the onlookers. He lands on the ground, and vaguely wonders that for a moment, he thought his arm would stretch, but quickly dismisses the thought to cry out his ambition of becoming the Pirate King.
Ryuma mocks Brook, stating that just like their previous fight, it will end with Brook begging for his life while shouting for Ruma not to touch his afro, But Brook disagrees, stating that this time will be different, recalling when he overheard zombies talk about a comrade who accidentally got purified when he ate some salted grilled fish, and realized that it must be the key to the zombie's weakness. Afterwards he had cornered Hogback and demanded that he be told where the zombie with his shadow was, threatening to spread fish all over the island, only to realize the weakness was in reality salt instead. Later, he came up with the idea to hum music while facing zombies so that he would not get scared and he be able to purify all he came across, so that he would definitely meet the zombie with his shadow one day. The survivors became terrified and begged Absalom to do something about the skeleton who annihilated their comrades. Kumashi tried to warn Perona of the danger, but was immediately silenced and told not to wake her up. Finally, he met Ryuma, and they fought, but Brook was quickly defeated. Ryuma suggested cutting off Brooks afro as a means of making him faster, but Brook quickly demanded the afro be left alone, as if it was cut off, it would never grow back. Ryuma tries to attack, saying that a skeleton who regards an afro to be important is nothing more than a joke, and Brook is forced to defend. Their fight continues, but Brook is again defeated and cornered against a tree. Brook pleads with Ryuma to spare his life, saying that he will never set foot on the island again, and Ryuma relents, saying that if Brook died, he would be in trouble as well. Back in the present Ryuma states he does not want to see such a pitiful scene twice, Brook responding that he can say whatever he pleases, and the two swordsmen begin fighting. Brook proclaims while fighting that during the previous five years, for his second chance, he has gotten stronger.
Absalom brings Nami to a room with an old zombie and two painting zombies, and asks if the ceremony preparations are complete. The old zombie replies that they are ready when Absalom is ready, and one of the paintings comments on the bride's beauty. Absalom orders the ceremony be started immediately, and for Nami to be put in a dress and brought to the ceremonial hall. The old zombie answers that it shall be done right away.

Robin, Franky, Usopp, and Chopper rush across the stone bridge back towards the Thousand Sunny. They'd been told by Brook they would locate their missing crewmates Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji aboard for safekeeping. Franky asks Usopp about Oars, whom Usopp had been seen being brought to life after being implanted with Luffy's shadow by Gecko Moria. They return to the Sunny to find the zombies had ransacked the ship in the process of returning their victims. Usopp finds the missing crewmates in the dining room in assorted humiliating poses. As Brook noted, they're unconscious and unresponsive until Usopp yells, There's a beautiful swordswoman with lots of meat. This awakens all three.
Back in the castle, Nami lays unconscious on a table while a zombie sizes her for a wedding dress. The zombie returns with the dress and lays it beside Nami to check. He also notes the presence of Absalom in spite of his Suke Suke no Mi, forcing Absalom to leave in frustration. Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji quickly regain their bearings. The crew trade information they've picked up: Nami's kidnapping, the zombies that hold the stolen crew's shadows, Brook's knowledge of the zombies and how to purify them, and the fact Moria's one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea. Franky then admits that, in a callous moment, he'd asked what kept Brook going in spite of the hardship he'd endured. Brook then mentioned Laboon, whom he'd been forced to leave behind at Twin Cape but not before promising to return for him. Luffy, Zoro, Usopp, and Sanji instantly recognize the name and reveal to Franky, Chopper, and Robin, they've met him already and they're familiar with that promise.

Franky hears of Luffy's meeting with Laboon and Sanji explains the events. 
Chopper is quite surprised about how the whale swallowed the Straw Hats and the same Laboon that Brook is interested in. The group tells Chopper and the rest of how they also met Crocus inside the whale and the time Laboon waited for his friends to come back to him.
After Luffy's fight with Laboon and the departure for Whisky Peak, Sanji informs the rest of how Laboon is still waiting for his friends. Zoro learns that one of Laboon's old friends is Brook.
Meanwhile, Brook is trying to hold his own against Ryuma who has the same abilities as he does. Ryuma cuts the Humming Swordsman's afro and laughs. Brook stands up and tries to counterattack while thinking about Laboon. He felt he was not strong enough to face the Grand Line and all of Laboon's old friends would be dead by that time. Brook fears for Laboon's reaction to his skeletal appearance.
Brook also thinks back to when he met the baby Laboon out at sea and performed for him. Even at a disadvantage, Brook vows to meet Laboon again.
Back at the Thousand Sunny, Franky cries over the Laboon story. Luffy then becomes interested in Brook and seeks to get him into his crew as the musician. Sanji then becomes determined to stop Nami's marriage to Absalom and the crew prepares for the battle to take back their shadows.

Oars plays with the mast of Thriller Bark and doesn't seem to extend his arm. His legs also fail to stretch. Hogback admires Oars' strength with Moria laughing with sadistic pleasure. Oars then decides to climb up by hand. Zoro tells of the plan to get back their shadows while Luffy wishes to see how cool Oars is using Luffy's shadow. Then, he becomes determined to bring down Moria who's waiting at the top of his castle. Sanji announces his intentions to rescue Nami from Absalom who had spied on Nami naked igniting the cook's rage. Usopp blames himself for letting the navigator get kidnapped and goes with Sanji. Franky hopes to back up Brook and Zoro volunteers. Robin also decides to go save Nami. Usopp then provides a set of anti-zombie salt balls so they can purify the zombies. There's no guarantee the forest will keep the crew safe from UV lights as they need to get their shadows back before the sun comes up.
The spying Hildon flies off to warn Moria while Oars is surprised on how big the Thriller Bark ship is and nearly falls off. Perona learns that Oars is not in their control and Moria needs to break the giant so he can be controlled. Hogback promises a massive set of marios to stuff the shadows into. Hildon warns that the Straw Hat Pirates are awake and are coming towards Moria and are in cohorts with Brook and about the weaknesses. The zombie soldiers are in a panic as Luffy fights through many of them. Hogback learns that Absalom is about to get married to Nami with the Zombie Generals in attendance. Absalom also wishes to use the dance hall for dancing, but the doctor wants the wedding cancelled.
Perona plans to weaken the Straw Hats with her ghosts to make them feel negative yet again. With Absalom occupied, Hogback volunteers to be second-in-command and has managed to tame Inuppe and Jigoro. Meanwhile, the zombie soldiers are at a disadvantage with the Straw Hats splitting up. Just then, Luffy's party begins to have negative thoughts thanks to Perona's ghosts hitting them. As the group tries to outrun the ghosts, Oars jumps down from the mast announcing a setting of sail, but breaks part of the castle, sending Sanji and Usopp falling down, Zoro and Franky find themselves facing Oars and are unable to break through. The four are horrified to meet this zombie.

With the Straw Hats split up, Luffy's party runs down a corridor with Luffy assuring Zoro's party would be fine as he is determined to get Moria. Chopper informs if they keep going, they would be in the freezer. Suddenly, they run into Hogback and Cindry.  Chopper volunteers to take on Hogback while Luffy goes ahead, but Cindry throws plates at the captain. Robin uses three arms to grab the maid zombie's arm preventing her from throwing more plates at her captain. Robin also stays behind to fight.
Chopper accuses Hogback of being a mad scientist who admires how he escaped the garden. The scientist plans to kill the reindeer and turn him into a mario. Inuppe and Jigoro then come in under the doctor's orders. Chopper is horrified knowing different. Inuppe wishes to fight Chopper.
As Luffy continues through the freezer, he eventually sees Moria resting. Meanwhile, Zoro's party is flabbergasted at Oars' monstrous size and misuse of Luffy's power. Oars then grabs some debris and makes a pirate hat from it before walking off. Zoro knows of the danger Oars poses and Usopp feels afraid. With the stairs broken, taking another route would take too much time. But Franky forms a corduroy bridge so they can cross.
Zoro and Usopp's party then races down another hallway, while Perona observes. Reaching Perona's quarters, they find the ghost princess's negative ghosts flying about. Seeing how they made it in, Perona warns of how her patience is wearing thin. The swordsman suspects Perona's play and she senses fear before the princess demonstrates her ability to disorient her foes with her ghosts. Zoro, Usopp, Sanji and Franky try to free, but Perona fills the Straw Hats with bad thoughts.
Just then, more Wild Zombies appear to capture the Straw Hats. But Usopp fires a Gatling Salt Star to purify the animals. Since Usopp is already negative, he took Perona by surprise. The Ghost Princess's Negative Hollow proves ineffective on the sniper, horrifying Perona.
As Perona faints, she knows how people bear hopeful thoughts. The Wild Zombies and Perona cheer on. Usopp manages to snap his friends out of their negative states and they leave Usopp to deal with Perona and her henchmen.
Meanwhile, Absalom's wedding to Nami goes on with the generals cheering. Nami is possessed into accepting. As Absalom is about to kiss his new bride, Zoro's party races through the hall.

The Wild Zombies are surprised that the Negative Hollows are not working on Usopp. The sniper needed backup, but is left to go at it alone. Perona fears for her downfall and summons more ghosts determined to rob Usopp of his will to fight. It seems to be effective this time, but the ghosts fail yet again. Even with Usopp's negative personality, he becomes confident in his battle. As the Wild Zombies move in, they are shot with Salt Stars, purifying more of them. The animals close their moves and chase the sniper around.
Meanwhile, Zoro's party races through the outer ground and Sanji volunteers to save Nami by himself. Franky points out how the adrenaline is kicking in and heads to where Brook is fighting Ryuma.
Brook tries to hold on, but Ryuma continues to break his guard. With the skeletal musician losing, Ryuma expects his opponent to lose with dignity but he gets up again. The samurai zombie prepares to permanently kill Brook who is warning of how he's stealing his techniques. Years ago, Brook served a squad called the Requiem La Banderole and soon renamed it the Three Verse Humming Arrow Notch Slash squad. The samurai dares Brook to try and hit him again. The two walk past one another with invisible slashes and Ryuma's Arrow Notch Slash prevails.
Brook then thinks of his time with Laboon as he wished to apologize to him for his bad luck and how lonely his life had been. Ryuma prepares to execute his opponent by starting with the afro. But then the mansion shakes.
Zoro and Franky make it to Brook's side and he is surprised at how they followed him. Ryuma is angry about the outside interference, but Zoro demands a challenge from the zombie samurai.
Luffy also senses the shaking and Moria's blaming his foe for it. The Straw Hat captain shows his vow to get back the shadows of his crew and Brook by defeating the zombie pirate. Before Absalom's lips can kiss Nami, she turns her head suddenly as the area is shaking from a sharp current.
Oars is playing with Thriller Bar's rudder trying to speed the ship up. Absalom orders his henchmen to put Oars under control, but the giant zombie monster drops himself onto the Zombie Generals using a false Gum Gum Gatling. The zombie demands his path of adventure be clear.
Absalom is horrified by how the generals have been beaten and worries that Oars will sink the island ship, but then Sanji arrives to save Nami. Zoro holds Ryuma back from Brook. Zoro then declares that he will recover Brook's shadow for him. He also becomes interested in Ryuma's sword, Shusui.

As Luffy faces Moria, the latter warns that even if he is beaten, the shadows will never make it back to their rightful owners, so Moria says that it is he who decides whether the shadows can go back or not. He also dares Luffy to try and make him. Luffy uses a Gum-Gum Pistol to hit him, but it's actually a decoy, the Doppelman. Moria says that he will have his pawns make him the Pirate King and also says that Oars desires that title.
Moria also says that zombies with the victim's shadow will mimic the personalities, but it won't be long before they become eternally loyal to him. Luffy tries to land a Gum-Gum Gatling, but the Doppelman becomes Brick Bats to chase Luffy around. The Straw Hat captain slings back and prepares a counterattack.
Meanwhile, Usopp continues to run from the Wild Zombies as he has to deal with them and Perona by himself. Suddenly, Usopp fakes an injury and uses Pepper Star to make them sneeze, then shoots more Salt Stars to purify the zombies. He then shoots a Firebird Star, but misses. However, the chandelier causes a fire and makes the Wild Zombies panic, but Kumashi blocks Usopp from hitting his boss. Perona flees into the hallways with Usopp in pursuit. Kumashi also chases and tries to ram Usopp. He then flies into a rage and tries to smash the sniper who is running in a panic.
Outside, Oars continues his rampage and rests his legs on the water, making waves, scaring Cerberus off, and yells he'll be Pirate King, scaring more zombies.
Sanji then kicks his way through and catches Nami in his arms.
Oars stretches himself and wonders if he would sink. He splashes himself in the water, making the waves massive but the giant zombie struggles to swim and moves back to shore. Hildon flies to him and warns him of the salt water that would purify him.
Meanwhile, Sanji sees how Nami isn't moving and believes she's a goddess. He also believes her to be a fairy, but comes back to his senses. Absalom spots him and launches invisible blasts at the cook. Absalom points how Inuppe showed off Sanji's personality. The Zombie Generals still obey Absalom.
Absalom then warns Sanji to leave Nami as his wife or Sanji would be killed. However, Sanji grabs Absalom with his legs and throws him back. He almost shoots Hands of the Dead at Sanji, but the cook uses Basses Cote and Longe to kick him. To further get back at Absalom, Sanji kicks him with the Tendron, Flanchet, Quasi, Queue, Cuisseau, and Jarret kicks.
Absalom makes himself invisible, but Sanji is able to find him and kicks him with a Veau Shot, knocking him into some benches. Sanji begins to burst in flames and knows how his issues go back way long.

Sanji shows his flames of rage to Absalom while Nami is still unconscious. Absalom recovers and learns that Sanji is angry with him over his stolen dreams. Absalom prepares to send the cook flying, but Sanji insists that he removes his hidden bazookas on his arms. To keep Nami out of harm's way, Sanji kicks away the bazookas. Sanji knows how Absalom can make objects invisible with his Clear-Clear Fruit.
Sanji points out that Absalom ate the fruit and robbed him of the dream of seeing naked women. Absalom insults Sanji as a pervert and is kicked again. He then tears off his jacket and increases his muscle mass. Even so, Sanji kicks him again. Absalom makes himself invisible again and shows his determination to marry Nami. The cook loses sight while cradling Nami and the invisible man hits him, mocking how he would sacrifice himself and uses a phantom hand and leg attack on him, but Sanji continues to carry Nami away. Absalom then makes a sneak attack, hurting Sanji badly and forcing him to drop Nami.
Sanji regrets how he doesn't want to soil Nami's dress with blood but accepts he didn't take the Clear-Clear Fruit and decides to stay visible after all. Absalom closes in, but Sanji grabs the invisible commander. As Absalom bombards his opponent, Sanji retaliates with an Extra Hache barrage and sends him flying into a wall.
Meanwhile, Luffy is getting pecked on by the Brick Bats until he kicks them off, but they turn into the Doppelman yet again. The Doppelman becomes Brick Bats again and continues to harass the captain until they are forced back. With Luffy's rage fuming, he uses a Gum-Gum Stamp to kick Moria. 
Elsewhere, Usopp continues chasing Perona with Kumashi behind him. The bear zombie tries to smash himself into the sniper who dodges each time until Kumashi is crushed by some debris. The zombie continues to chase Usopp but then he uses a Flame Ball to light Kumashi on fire, then spills some oil to make a fiery trail. As he is confident that Perona will not stand a chance, Usopp is startled by the Ghost Princess who is floating outside. She vows that once Usopp is out of the picture, the rest of the Straw Hats will be her next targets.

Moria marches at Luffy, angry about the injury that was inflicted on him. The Straw Hat captain attempts another Gum-Gum Stamp, but the Doppelman stops it and grabs Luffy before it separates into Brick Bats. He stops them with a Gum-Gum Finger Net and drops them, but they reform again.
Outside, Perona laughs evilly and admits how she seemed to panic but then put herself under control. She then tells Usopp to cheer up, but Usopp shows his Kabuto. The Ghost Princess disappears and seemingly becomes a giant in front of Usopp. The sniper tries a Swallowtail Meteor, but Perona reduces herself back to normal so he misses. She also dodges a Mantis Meteor, mocking Usopp's aiming. He continues to miss his shots and finds Perona breaching into his body. Perona informs Usopp he would die soon from his heart exploding. Despite his pleading, the heart seems to fail, but it was actually a bluff. Her hands just passed right through.
The sniper also tries a Six Chamber Viper Star, but they go right through Perona and she moves her hands through Usopp to scare him further. Usopp knows how he might be safe from Perona's body, but she uses a Mini Hollows and Ghost Wrap to cause explosions. The Firebird Star also fails to hit her.
The Mini Hollows close in and seem to blow Usopp to pieces.
Kumashi searches for Usopp in a blind rage and hears Perona's Ghost Wrap. The bear zombie closes in while Usopp curses his bad luck as Kumashi gives more hits. Defeat seems certain until Usopp becomes Sogeking and shoots salt into Kumashi's mouth, finally purifying him. Perona is angered about Sogeking's appearance and he charges at the Ghost Princess. Sogeking speaks in Usopp's mind and implores him not to give up. He learns about how Perona's personality seemed odd as she panicked and somehow calmed herself.
Usopp then searches for a hiding spot and sees a door. He takes Kabuto and shoots an Atlas Comet at the door. He then sees Perona's real body, confident in his victory.

Usopp sees how Perona can float and go straight through people, and learns that she is a ghost that left a physical body behind. With the real body of Perona revealed, Usopp fires a Big Bang Star, but the shot misses. Perona says it was a dud, then reveals a large Special Hollow, scaring Usopp. She then fires more Hollows and tries to blow him up. The Special Hollow then bites down on the sniper leaving him trapped in its teeth. Perona points out how the ghost's teeth is inescapable, then returns to her own body.
Meanwhile, Luffy is struggling against the Doppelman using a Gum-Gum Bazooka, but is deflected. It also stops another one of the Straw Hat captain's attacks. Luffy tries to bite down, but the essence of the Doppelman reforms and it slams him down. Moria knows how hopeless his enemy's struggle has been.
Oars begins searching for his hat and resets it on his head. He also dreams of readying a cannon salute.
In another part of the castle, Robin uses an Ocho Fleurs to bind Jigoro, but he breaks free. Hogback and Cindry watch, hoping Robin and Chopper will surrender. Inuppe also insults Chopper and dares him to fight. Jigoro then fires a 36-Caliber Phoenix, nearly hitting Inuppe. With the distraction, Chopper restrains Jigoro and Robin begins to feed the sword-zombie some salt. Inuppe kicks the scholar, forcing her arms to disappear and drop the salt. Jigoro also throws the reindeer down. Hogback laughs wickedly at his victory.
Oars continues his rampage, scaring several zombies while searching for his cannon. He soon begins to feel uneasy and realizes he was made to follow the orders of Moria. He decides to head back to the castle.
Perona awakens in her normal body and prepares to detonate the Special Hollow to kill Usopp. However, the sniper uses an Impact Dial to stop the explosion. Usopp also points out that he used a Birdlime Star, binding the Ghost Princess's physical body.
A zombie hippo tries to take Usopp by surprise, but is hit by the Impact Dial. Suddenly, Usopp feels a percussion in his arm, but he uses a Shining Black Star to hit his opponent. This releases cockroaches, horrifying Perona. Usopp then says she should be afraid of him and reveals a 10-ton hammer. Despite Perona's pleas, Usopp smashes his hammer down, pretending to knock her out just as the hammer pops and deflates. The roaches Usopp used were just toys and the hammer was just a balloon. As he leaves, Usopp bids her a goodnight sleep until dawn.
Meanwhile, Zoro is at a disadvantage against Ryuma who is glowing with fire. Brook is horrified that the zombie samurai was not fighting at full strength.

At Hogback's lab, 5 minutes earlier, Ryuma mocks how Zoro intends to take the Shusui sword from him. Zoro points out how he has carried three swords, one of which being a broken sword. The swordsman prepares to fight using two swords. Ryuma revels at the challenge Zoro is presenting and blocks a hard attack. Ryuma then uses Aubade Coup Droit, shooting bullets of air out of his sword. It would seem to be a draw, as the lab is about to cave-in. Brook knows that in Ryuma's former life, he was still a fearsome samurai.
Ryuma then thrusts his sword at Zoro with Prelude Au Fer to break his swords, with the latter retaliating with a Flash. It doesn't get through. He then uses a Demon Magma Bear, but the attack is also blocked. The zombie samurai then uses a Gavotte Bond en Avant, launching an intense thrust at his foe with Zoro using a Sword style Rashomon, dashing past each other. Ryuma takes the hit and the lab's structure begins to weaken.
Franky hopes to take Brook to safety, while Zoro and Ryuma continue their fight using a 72-Caliber Phoenix and Polka Remise respectively on one another. Franky then fires a Weapons Left to make a safe exit. On the rooftop, the Straw Hat swordsman and the zombie samurai appear to be evenly matched even with limited movement. The two continue to swing their swords with Zoro about to lose his footing. Breathing heavily, Zoro worries that his swords will break if he keeps it up. Suddenly, a part of the roof is blasted. Zoro almost lands a Soaring Dragon and the skeleton uses an Arrow Notch Slash, wounding Zoro greatly. Just then, Ryuma is lit on fire.
With Zoro lying on the ground, Ryuma admits defeat. He passes Shusui onto his opponent as the sword has had a long history of owners. Zoro catches the sword and Ryuma believes he feels shame in his failure. Zoro wishes they could have met in the era when Ryuma was alive. Just then, Brook's shadow finally returns to its rightful owner, allowing Brook to walk around in broad daylight and he makes another skeletal joke. As Ryuma cremates, Zoro wants to pretend the fight never happened.
Usopp runs down a hallway and hopes to inform his friends of his victory over Perona and dodges a group of Wild Zombies using an empty picture frame.
Elsewhere, a group of armored zombies are told by Hildon that the downed zombies were meant to restrain Oars. Just then, Oars arrives and the bat-like zombie orders a retreat. However, the zombie warriors try to charge at the giant zombie anyway, but Oars smashes through the generals. Remembering the orders, Oars continues his march.
Luffy is now beginning to feel tired while Moria gloats how he can be Pirate King without lifting his fingers. The Doppelman then drops onto Luffy and then slams the Straw Hat captain around. Moria warns that his backup will be arriving any moment.

Hogback wickedly laughs about how the zombies have lost the personalities of the victims' shadows. On creation, the zombies retain a fraction, until they begin to serve Hogback loyally. Chopper then sees the doctor's true colors. Years ago, Hogback had once worked to save lives, and there were brief ways to restore people to life. The reindeer now realizes that Hogback will not do it for the benefit of people. Hogback made a lot of money off his treatment for people. Chopper knows he can no longer respect the mad doctor.
Hogback then demonstrates how he can give people a new life by kicking Cindry hard and has her lick the floor. Disgusted, Chopper fumes with rage and learns how he broke into the mad doctor's room featuring pictures of Cindry. Years back, Cindry was so popular she captured the hearts of men, including Hogback.
On one tragic day, Cindry had a fiance, making Hogback jealous. Just then, Cindry was killed in an accident, melting Hogback in sadness. Gecko Moria then offered him a chance to give Cindry a second chance at life. The doctor then found Cindry's corpse and carried her to his lab to make her obedient. She then wishes to wipe out all plates in the world.
Outraged, Chopper knows it's all a farce and demands that Cindry stop licking the floor. The reindeer knows how Hogback has been making monsters of people. Hogback then orders Cindry to attack. The scientist plans to make Chopper his loyal servant after killing him. Cindry then launches Square Blade Plates at the raging reindeer. She seems to succeed in knocking out Chopper with a stack of plates.
Chopper then tries to reason with Cindry, and warns about what her family would've said about the situation they are in. To be alive, one needs to be a free person. Hearing that, Cindry drops and is almost fed some salt. Inuppe stops them with a kick and Jigoro launches a 108 Caliber Phoenix that the parties manage to dodge. Robin the uses a Doce Fleur but is deflected.
Inuppe and Jigoro begin to argue using part of Sanji and Zoro's personalities. With this distraction, Robin binds Hogback's mouth and knows how the zombies won't take orders if his mouth is shut. She releases him and believes he can kill them by dropping them out of the tower. He then orders Jigoro and Inuppe to jump out of the tower, and suddenly becomes horrified that the two have fallen. Hogback cries over his error.
Chopper then prepares to pummel the mad doctor, and Cindry begins to cry over without moving.
Just then, Oars arrives at Moria and Luffy's location and Moria introduces his prized creation to his enemy.

Chopper and Robin watch as Cindry's body refuses to move, much to the dismay of Hogback. However, Cindry quickly recovers, and Hogback tells Cindry to buy as much time as possible, so he can escape. Robin quickly restrains Cindry though, and Chopper captures Hogback easily. Robin starts to lift Chopper and Hogback up, as Chopper is preparing to throw Hogback down to the ground from a dangerous height. Elsewhere, Luffy is confronted by Oars who is given the order to capture and destroy every Straw Hat Pirate. Moria takes advantage of Luffy's bewilderment at Oars and quickly escapes, though Luffy immediately starts chasing after him while Oars begins hunting down the other Straw Hats. 
Oars, moving around the island, causes many disturbances, and he interrupts just as Chopper is about to throw Hogback to the ground. Hogback is trampled by Oars while Cindry again is unable to move. As Oars continues to move, he also disrupts the battle between Sanji and Absalom. While Sanji is distracted by Oars, Absalom steals Nami back and plans to properly wed her this time without any disturbances. Zoro, Franky, and Brook see Oars' huge figure coming towards them, and they quickly realize that it is Luffy's zombie. Sanji also arrives to help fight Oars along with Usopp, Chopper, and Robin who realize that the gigantic Oars has received orders to destroy them. At the end, Oars cries for the Straw Hats to come out and have a battle with him.

Oars checks the bounties of the Straw Hat crew on his arm and doesn't know of Brook. He then spots Luffy, Nami, and Sogeking and goes off to find them, leaving the rest of the Straw Hats battered and beaten.
Perona has a nightmare being surrounded by roaches and being bashed by Usopp's 10-ton Hammer. She wakes in the real world surrounded by the Wild Zombies and is told of the events transpiring so far, and that Usopp has left. The mansion is also crumbling thanks to Oars and he bashes some of the animals. The Ghost Princess spots Oars calling out to Nami. Perona plans to steal the Thousand Sunny and make a break for it.
Elsewhere, Absalom has resumed his wedding, but now, Nami tries to resist his kisses to seal his marriage. Lola arrives seemingly obsessed with killing Nami and is angry for the lies the navigator had given her. Lola claims that Nami is "Namizo" and demands that Absalom marry her.
Lola tries to vent her frustration but keeps missing. However, it is secretly intentional so Nami can escape. Just as Lola is close, Absalom shoots an invisible blast at Lola, horrifying Nami. Absalom then declares Lola a lowly zombie.
Absalom then sees that Nami is not running off. Nami then readies a Thunder Charge thinking of how she made friends with Lola. The navigator charges at Absalom and shocks him greatly, hoping to finally beat him. Suddenly, Absalom falls down and has a dream of Nami being his bride before finding out that he is kissing her rod.
With Absalom's limits reach, he is defeated. Lola breathes heavily, proclaiming Nami as her friend. Nami apologizes for lying that she was a man. Lola then goes after Absalom yet again.
Luffy continues to chase Moria and dodges some debris thrown by Oars. He then makes a path by smashing down some trees. Moria then surprises some humans and dares them to take him on.
Oars searches for his targets while the Straw Hats recover. The crew warns Oars not to underestimate the entire crew.

With Absalom down, Nami goes in search of Thriller Bark's treasure. She finds out that the vault is empty but forces two chipmunk zombies to tell her where the treasure is. Meanwhile, the Straw Hat Pirates fighting Oars decide to use Tactics 15: Big Emperor. Franky docks onto Sanji and Zoro, with Usopp docking as right arm and Chopper as the head. Nico Robin refuses to complete the docking as the left hand, stating that it is too embarrassing, much to the dismay of Oars who was getting pumped to fight the Big Emperor. Usopp fires Oil Stars to make one of Oars' feet slip. Zoro then takes Franky's Heavy Nunchunks and is launched to Oars' arm by Sanji. He then smashes the nunchunks into Oars' arm and Robin attacks Oars' other arm with Cien Fleur: Big Tree. Franky and Chopper climb up to Oars' face and attack with their combined powers, causing Oars to fall off balance. Sanji kicks Oars' remaining foot that is supporting him, causing Oars to fall down face first. Meanwhile, Brook goes to the kitchen in search of milk and salt.

Nami beats the two squirrel zombies into telling her what they did with the Straw Hats' treasure. She goes looking for Perona and heads to the Thousand Sunny when she spots the fallen Oars. But Oars remains stuck to the ground since his horns are now imbedded into the ground. Using this to their advantage the Straw Hats' start beating him up, much to Oars' fury. Oars gets back on his feet, much to everyone's chagrin and Usopp, Chopper, and Franky blame Robin for not doing "Tactics 15" properly. The former three decides to do it again anyway and using Sanji's kick, aim to attack again. Embarrassingly, the attack is practically useless. But Usopp mocks Oars causing him to punch his own head. Oars does not go down and Franky, Chopper and Usopp run away again.
Trying to think of what else they could do, Usopp reminds everyone that Luffy's memory is not completely gone; basically Luffy's weak points are Oars' weak points. Usopp and Chopper distract him and Franky and Zoro attack. While Franky figures all they need to do is keep this up until Luffy defeats Moria, Sanji and Zoro are ready to simply defeat Oars with no intention of waiting for Luffy. Zoro decides this is a good chance to use the new sword he had acquired from Ryuma.
Luffy continues searching for Moria in the woods and finally manages to find what appears to be him.
Nami reaches the Sunny and confronts Perona who intends to take the ship and escape Thriller Bark with all the treasure. Suddenly a tall stranger appears behind Perona who, shocked and frightened, falls down and introduces the man as one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea, Bartholomew Kuma. Perona tries to tell him she no longer works for Moria and was just on her way off the island. Perona wonders what he'd do with that information and ends up telling him. Snapping out of it, she intends to fight him after all (though he ignores her). Perona attacks but Kuma reaches out to her and she disappears. Nami stands shocked and Kuma identifies her and inquires about Luffy's brother, Ace, then leaving her. Nami thought she had to warn everyone.
Luffy has tackled Moria's shadow but not Moria himself and realizes he's been tricked into a wild goose chase.

Brook laughs proudly and seems well enough to fight against Oars and Moria. In the process of getting some salt, he had also drank down some milk to heal himself. With the large quantity of salt, Sanji knows they only have one shot to purify Oars and beat Moria before sunrise. Moria then dares his enemies to try to get the shadows back. Brook prepares to join in, but feels stiff.
Usopp fires an Oil Star and massive Firebird Star to light Oars on fire. Moria tells his giant minion to extinguish the fire as it feels nothing to him. Zoro and Chopper work together, with the swordsman jumping off the reindeer and using the Great Buddha Slayer to break a part of a tower. Sanji uses the Jenga Cannon to kick the tower pieces at Oars, six times. But Oars deflects the tower pieces, and Robin uses Veinte Fleurs to throw her friends out of range and Franky shoots the debris.
Usopp then reveals the Kuwagata shot with a bit of difficulty and Franky poses in front of the sniper. He then launches Franky via Iron Man Comet at the giant zombie, then the cyborg shoots an anti-monster cannon at Moria, but Oars dodges and gives a heavy blow. Moria orders his minion to give the finishing blow with a stomp. Just then, Nami readies a Thunderbolt Tempo and shocks Oars badly. This forces the large zombie to drop to his knees. Outside, the zombie soldiers are in shock.
Sanji begins to feel love for Nami's heroics, but Nami warns it would give her away to Oars. The zombie prepares a Gum-Gum Pistol and knocks Nami off the tower. The navigator hangs on from Robin's multiple arms and is brought down to her side. With his newfound power, Oars uses a Gum-Gum Whip.
Elsewhere, Luffy races back to the mansion and is tripped up by a pirate. The pirates that made contact with Luffy are the Risky Brothers, members of the Rolling Pirates. They hope to get Luffy back in time so they can grant him special abilities to finally attain victory. Then, Marriage Proposal Lola with pink hair appears and asks for Luffy's hand in marriage, but is rejected. For so long, the Rolling Pirates have been in misery without shadows for three years.
Lola then orders the Risky Brothers to bring in some shadows. They force a shadow into Luffy who feels convulsions. They also give him a sword that the Straw Hat captain uses with great accuracy. The Rolling Pirates plan to use Moria's own abilities against him. The shadow power-up will only last for ten minutes. With the fog clear, there's only 20 minutes before daylight begins. Then, more shadows are forced into Luffy.
Luffy's skin turns pale blue and is becoming stronger by the second. With a more massive sword, Luffy takes it as well, demanding a fight. Nightmare Luffy then sets off while going in the wrong direction.

Oars uses a Gomu Gomu no Kane to throw the Straw Hats around. He then uses a Gomu Gomu no Yari to stretch his legs down hard on the crew. Zoro wonders how Oars became so powerful. Moria explained that he used Shadow Revolution extending his shadow down to Oars. With that, Oars can extend his body parts almost like Luffy does. Moria then turns Oars' shadow into a ball, making him a ball as well. Oars rolls towards the crew and suddenly stops and demands that he be the one to finish things. Moria orders Oars to pick off the Straw Hats one-by-one. Nami wonders where Luffy is and thinks about how Kuma might be somewhere on the island as well. Usopp hopes that by beating both Moria and Oars, the shadows will return. Brook then volunteers to help. Zoro charges at the Oars/Moria duo.
Nami readies a Dark Cloud Tempo, and Usopp shoots Brook at Oars with Robin making spin into a wild tornado. With lightning surrounding him, Brook uses a Lightning Bone Sword to pierce right through Oars and crash into a wall. However, Oars retaliates by using a Gomu Gomu no Muchito kick the skeletal Humming Swordsman. He also blocks Usopp's Atlas Comet. Next, Oars launches a Gomu Gomu no Bazooka towards the sniper, but finds his arm not stretching. Robin had used Ocheta Fleurs Cuatro Manos to bind Moria. She orders him to surrender the shadows and threatens to crush him to death. But then, Moria sends some Brick Bats at Robin and they bite her, dropping her. Sanji kicks the bats off, but they form into the Doppelman behind Robin. Just as she uses Clutch to snap Moria's bones, the Doppelman forms Moria's face.
Moria had switched places with his Doppelman and now steals Robin's shadow dropping her into a coma-like state. He decides to hold the shadow, but then Sanji lights his foot and tries an extra Hache, but is fooled by the decoy.  Now furious, Oars uses a Gomu Gomu no Bazooka but is hit by Sanji's Frit Assorti. As Usopp carries Robin away, Chopper learns that Oars once died of frostbite, and that one of his arms was just recently placed onto him. Oars overhears and smashes the reindeer in, but he misses. Using Jumping and Arm Point, Chopper is boosted by Sanji and they use a Roseo Shoot to hit Oars in the right arm. Chopper warns that pain is a warning sign on the average body. Oars then uses a Gomu Gomu no Gatling to pummel Sanji and Chopper. With only Nami, Zoro, and Usopp remaining, it appears that all hope is fading.

With only Zoro, Nami, and Usopp remaining, Moria orders Oars to stomp on them. Zoro hopes to make an opening and dodges an attack, but is knocked into a wall by Oars' head. He continues dodging while Usopp readies a special shot. Moria knows the swordsman can't win with multiple injuries. Just as Oars is about to finish off Zoro, he increases his muscle mass and uses a Two Gorilla Slash to make the zombie get his hand stuck. He then uses a Yaksha Crow to cut at Oars' right arm.
Oars then kicks Zoro into a wall and seemingly kills him, but then Usopp fires the massive salt bag into Oars' mouth. It would seem like Usopp has won. Luffy's shadow seems to resist and fly out. But then, the Doppelman shows it caught the salt before it could be digested. The Doppelman then throws the salt back to Usopp and renders it useless.
Oars then crushes Usopp under foot and Nami tries to plead for his life. The zombie then crushes Nami next. Moria then orders his large minion to crush those who are out cold to make sure they're dead. Suddenly, Nightmare Luffy appears, showing he has saved Usopp and Nami.
Nami and Usopp are shocked at Luffy's new appearance. Now serious, Luffy learns the entire crew has been beaten and prepares to fight next. He blocks Oars' Gomu Gomu no Rifle and says there's only one Luffy before counterattacking. Oars then crashes onto the ground scaring the zombie soldiers away.
With his new abilities, Luffy and Oars' strengths are now evenly matched. The Rolling Pirates arrive and check for the other Straw Hat crew members and find them heavily injured. Lola orders her crew to get the Straw Hats to safety. Nami and Usopp suspect them as hostile.
Luffy throws Oars like a wrestler by his hair. The zombies begin to fear that Moria will be losing. Nightmare Luffy begins to slam Oars around. Meanwhile, the Straw Hats meet with the Rolling Pirates who explain they just want to get off Thriller Bark and go out in broad daylight.
Kuma watches from the collapsing mansion. Oars recovers and tries to use a Gomu Gomu no Bullet, but Nightmare Luffy uses a sword to cut through the large zombie. As Moria tries to escape, he is hit by a Gomu Gomu no Pistol. After that, Nightmare Luffy uses a Gomu Gomu no Storm to rapidly hit both Oars and Moria and send them crashing down. Luffy falls to the ground and the shadows depart from him. It seems like victory and Lola cheers for Luffy.

Oars lies seemingly broken along with Moria while the Rolling Pirates cheer for Luffy's victory. Usopp tries to wake Luffy up as he was exhausted from using the shadows for his nightmare form. With sunrise approaching, Lola hoped Luffy would force Moria to return the shadows to the rightful owners.
Suddenly, Oars and Moria recover, frightening the Rolling Pirates who have run out of options. The crew plans to get to the forest as the sun will be blocked out, but the Straw Hats recover. Luffy insists on attempting a coup de grace on Oars, but is worn out. Robin provides footholds for Luffy to get up top. Lola's crew is surprised by Brook's appearance. Nami also shows herself at the top of a tower.
Sanji and Chopper race down a hall while Franky prepares something with Usopp.
As the Rolling Pirates clear out, Brook climbs Robin's arms on the tower, while Nami uses Cool Balls and Rain Tempo to dampen the giant zombie. Franky then fires a Coup de Vent to charge up a Super Cold Cannon to freeze Oars up. With Oars frozen from the legs down, Sanji kicks some chains at the giant.
On top of the Thriller Bark mast, Luffy is thrown down by Brook who then goes into Third Gear and uses the Bone Balloon to enlarge his arms. Zoro then forces his way into Oars's stomach with the Three Thousand Worlds slash. Sanji then tightens the chains on Oars' neck. Chopper points out how Oars' spine is s-shaped and went straightened, it will get the full impact of Luffy's blows. The Straw Hat captain then uses a Gum-Gum Giant Bazooka to snap Oars' spine finally defeating him.
Everyone is in surprise and awe as Oars falls down defeated.
With dawn approaching, the zombies begin to worry that Thriller Bark will be finished. Cindry watches in silence, as does the warthog-zombie Lola.
As the Rolling Pirates and Lola cheer, Luffy is shrunk down to size. Chopper knows even with his spine broken, the large zombie will not get up. Usopp tells his captain to hurry and get the shadows back from Moria.
Suddenly, Moria gets up and Lola demands the shadows be returned to their rightful owners. However, he refuses and blames everything on Luffy. Moria points out how the New World is far more dangerous than anyone could imagine even to the Straw Hat Pirates. Moria then gathers shadows to him as the zombies are immortals. Using Shadows Asgard, he overloads himself with about a thousand shadows, becoming more grotesque. In the process, Cindry, warthog Lola, Hildon, Jigoro, Inuppe drop lifeless and the others shadows are consumed.

The Straw Hat Pirates see to their horror that Moria has grown to an immense size from the thousands of shadows he's absorbed. The zombie soldiers prepare to accept the worse when Luffy grows back to his normal size. With dawn approaching, there is now little time.
Moria roars and smashes part of Thriller Bark while much of the Rolling Pirates try to flee. As they try to, the sunlight begins to burn some of the pirates who don't have their shadows. Lola intends to stay behind while her crew flees and sees how the Straw Hats won't flee in terror of Moria's power. She hopes the Straw Hats can at least have a fighting chance just as the sunlight hits her, but Lola shrugs it off putting her faith in Luffy.
Zoro sees how Moria got much bigger, and Robin notes how his pride made him lose control.  Luffy orders his crew to get the others to safety while he fights Moria. Lola's pirates see how with that much power in his body, Moria will have a tremendous advantage and there's not much time before daylight.
Luffy enters Gear 2 while Zoro notes either the sun will vaporize them all or the Thriller Bark monster will be destroyed. Moria attempts to claw at Luffy, but he dodges and uses the Gum Gum Jet Rocket to hit Moria hard, releasing some of the shadows. The Straw Hat captain then uses a Jet Bazooka barrage to force Moria to release hundreds of shadows, making him weaker. However, Moria traps Luffy in a Black Box via his Brick Bats. He then crushes the box, saying it is punishment for going against him.
Even after a number of stomps, Luffy breaks out. He also says that even if he is a nail that sticks out, he will not be hammered down. Luffy also warns that he would return all the shadows to their rightful owners no matter what.
With time running low, Luffy goes into Gear 3 with Usopp worrying about the last time his captain used it. With his rubbery body now immense, Luffy uses the Gum Gum Giant Jet Shell to force Moria to regurgitate more shadows, but he tries to hold them in. Lola calls for her shadow to come back to her.
Luffy tells his shadow to shape up and return to him and gives a hard blow to Moria yet again. The main tower of Thriller Bark collapses onto Moria. With the shadows escaping, Moria warns Luffy about the nightmares awaiting him in the New World.
Just then, morning light arrives and Luffy, Zoro, Robin, and Sanji begin to burn up. Usopp and Chopper cry in terror that their shadows may not make it to them.

Usopp, Nami, Chopper, and Franky cry in terror as Luffy, Zoro and Sanji are vaporizing by the sunlight. Lola also begins to disintegrate. On another ship in the Grand Line, the captain insists on sleeping more, but one of his crewmates points out that his shadow has returned to him. The captain runs out of his bed and is elated to see how his own shadow has returned to him and so are his crew. The crew wonders if someone has defeated Moria. On a Marine ship, a Marine is delighted to have his shadow back. More pirates and civilians express joy of having their shadows return to them. In one home, Margarita drops some plates and is shocked at how her reflection had returned along with her shadow. Her boss, Egana, is surprised that her shadow is back. The maid tells of how she once hated plates but got over it. Her boss stops her from leaving as he was pleased how Margarita was unscathed, making her cry with joy. All seem lost for the Straw Hats until Zoro sees how he managed to survive, Robin thinking she would be on her way to heaven, and Sanji wishing to be with her. Nami and Chopper cry with joy with Brook saying he almost had a heart attack, but doesn't actually have a heart. He then sees the sun for the first time in days.
Lola and her crew cheer over the return of their shadows. Luffy has also survived but is unconscious from his intense fight with Moria. Robin says that when the shadows returned, their bodies were restored in the nick of time. Sanji knows that all the creatures made by Moria and his henchmen were all just fabricated. Meanwhile, Hogback wakes up Absalom who is horrified to see the warthog zombie of Lola and tries again to turn down her marriage proposal, but the doctor informs him that the warthog-zombie is now lifeless and the bad news that Moria is beaten. With the damage done to Thriller Bark, Hogback doesn't wish to spend the rest of his days there. Chopper knows that Gear Third could wind up tearing Luffy apart. The old man with the lantern arrives and reveals he is just an elderly injured man and thanks the crew for finally defeating Moria. Lola recognizes him as Spoil, the chairman of the Thriller Bark Victim's Association and also congratulates the Straw Hat Pirates on their victory and also wants a husband so badly but is turned down.
Zoro wanted to point out how the path to victory was of the Straw Hats' own accord and is slapped by Nami for it. Lola's crew offers to show Moria's treasure room and allows the Straw Hats to get it as reward. However, Nami also warns that Kuma is still on the island. Kuma appears communicating with his superior on his Den Den Mushi and tells them of Moria's defeat. The person on the other end orders that Moria is to be transported back to Marine Headquarters and no one must know about his defeat. Kuma is then ordered to eliminate every last person on Thriller Bark including the Straw Hats. The Straw Hats feel exhausted from the fight with Moria, but Zoro prepares to fight. Nami warns him of the abilities Kuma has like how he seemingly made Perona disappear and can warp in split seconds. Kuma takes off his gloves and warps to the Thriller Bark victims and the Straw Hats. As Lola's crew charges at him, Kuma launches a paw-shaped blast through some of them and causes a massive shockwave against some he didn't touch. He then warps to Zoro and prepares to fight him.

Bartholomew Kuma towers over everyone. Many of the witnesses there wonder what kind of powers this man could have to cause so much destruction. Lola is upset as she and the rest of the Rolling Pirates had just finished suffering through the nightmare of Gecko Moria, but with Kuma in their midst, it seemed their suffering was far from over. The other members of the Rolling Pirates decide to fight as the Straw Hat Pirates already went through a lot to defeat Moria. Zoro suddenly speaks up saying that Kuma challenged him, intending to take down the Warlord of the Sea himself. Kuma starts to speak rather highly of the Straw Hats and their exploits, and how quickly they rose to infamy. However, Kuma makes it clear that they must still be taken out. At that moment Zoro prepares his swords. Usopp tries to talk Zoro out of it but Zoro doesn't listen, as he intends to fight even if it leads to his demise.
As a first attack, Zoro uses Nitoryu Iai: Rashomon but Kuma quickly moves out of the way. Kuma is suddenly above Zoro and tries to attack him but Zoro manages to dodge at the last second. Zoro comments on how fast Kuma is and Kuma sends another paw-shaped air attack that manages to slightly graze Zoro. Everyone then notices the paw on Kuma's hand as Zoro gets up again. Zoro uses Sanjuroku Pound Ho but Kuma deflects the attack away using his paw, redirecting it near some of the Rolling Pirates. Chopper wonders how Kuma is able to deflect the attack with his bare hands. Zoro then says that he's figured out what Kuma's ability is. Kuma reveals that he ate the Nikyu Nikyu no Mi that allows him to deflect anything. The other Straw Hats question the name and appearance of Kuma's Devil Fruit, particularly Franky who doesn't believe it's a serious devil fruit. Kuma sends an air blast at Franky knocking the cyborg down. Everyone is shocked at how Franky, a cyborg, got knocked down so easily. Robin explains this, saying that Kuma is deflecting the air itself. Kuma calls the technique the Pad Ho as he is able to deflect the air itself into a high-speed, damaging attack.
Kuma now assumes a sumo-like position and fires off multiple air shots known as Tsuppari Pad Ho at Zoro. Zoro manages to evade the attack using Toro Nagashi but, as he connects with his attack on Kuma, Kuma deflects the attack away with his paw pads. Zoro is sent flying backwards and Kuma quickly moves closer to him. Some of the Rolling Pirates comment that Zoro is too worn out from fighting Oars and, as Usopp calls out, Kuma suddenly appears behind Zoro preparing for another attack. Sanji suddenly rushes in and kicks Kuma in the face halting the attack. Zoro angrily tells Sanji not to butt in but notices Sanji falling down after kicking Kuma. Sanji screams in pain as Kuma recognizes him due to his kicking style. Sanji wonders if Kuma's face is made of steel and Usopp fires a Hi no Tori Boshi/Fire Bird Star at Kuma. Kuma simply deflects the attack back at Usopp damaging him. It becomes apparent that the Straw Hats are having quite a lot of trouble fighting the Warlord.
After a bit of silence, Kuma speaks saying how boring it is to fight against the injured Straw Hats. Kuma admits it isn't a fair fight as the Straw Hats already fought against Moria and Oars, but he also says he must follow orders even if he doesn't agree with them. Kuma then suddenly starts to compress a large amount of air into a strange translucent paw-shaped energy ball. Nami notices that Kuma is compressing the massive air mass into a very small area. Robin says he plans on releasing the compressed energy, causing an explosion much like a bomb. After a little while, Kuma appears to have finished, but before he releases the attack, he proposes an alternative. Kuma says he will spare everyone's lives if they hand Luffy over to him. The Straw Hats and the Rolling Pirates all decline the proposal and Kuma releases his attack, Ursus Shock, upon everyone resulting in a massive explosion which results in the destruction of Thriller Bark.

After the devastating power of Kuma's Ursus Shock, everyone of the Straw Hat Pirates and the Rolling Pirates are knocked out. Kuma then takes this time to try and capture Luffy who is still worn out from his fight with Moria earlier. However, just as Kuma picks up Luffy, he is suddenly attacked by Zoro who slashes at him with Ittoryu Iai: Shishi Sonson. This attack manages to damage Kuma but Zoro is shocked to see cybernetic parts under Kuma. Zoro says he should've known that Kuma is a cyborg like Franky and Kuma fires a laser from his mouth that misses Zoro directly but the shockwave sends him flying.
Zoro is shocked to see that Kuma is able to fire a laser from his mouth and Kuma explains that he is a Pacifista. He continues on saying that a Pacifista is a creation designed to work for the World Government and says that he, himself, was created by the infamous Dr. Vegapunk. Zoro replies saying that Kuma has a major advantage being a Pacifista with Devil Fruit powers. Zoro also says that his body has given up on him but, not wanting to give up his captain's head, offers up his own life to Kuma. Zoro says his bounty may not be as high as Luffy's, but he is willing to give up his dream to become the world's greatest swordsmen in exchange. A surprised Kuma looks on how Zoro is willingly to give up his life and dream to make his captain's dream come true. Suddenly, Sanji gets up and offers up his life instead. However, Zoro, who already made up his mind, knocks Sanji out.
Zoro turns his attention back to Kuma who throws his swords in front of him and asks Kuma to show some honor. Kuma, after thinking for a while, agrees to Zoro's plea, saying that it wouldn't be honorable for him to still attack Luffy. Kuma, picking up Luffy, tells Zoro that he will spare Luffy but not before Zoro takes Luffy's place by experiencing all the pain he has endured during his time on Thriller Bark. Kuma then uses his powers to repel all the pain out of Luffy into a large, red mass of air. Kuma says that Zoro must take all of Luffy's pain if he really does want to take his place saying that the experience will kill Zoro as he is close to death. Kuma sends over a sample to Zoro and Zoro suffers intense pain from that small sample. Zoro falls to the ground but barely manages to make it back to his feet. Zoro then sticks his arms into the giant mass of pain. Kuma then remarks on Dragon having a good son.
Later, the Straw Hats and the Rolling Pirates all regain consciousness. Franky is surprised to see Luffy acting well, who tells the crew that his body feels as good as new. As the other Straw Hats wonder why, Sanji runs off toward Zoro's direction. He reaches Zoro and asks what happened to the Warlord, but notices blood everywhere. Sanji asks Zoro what happened, and Zoro, who is covered head to toe in blood, says that nothing happened.

Everyone is happy that their shadows are back, and Nami is really happy with the pile of treasure they find. The crew carries lots of food with them down to the courtyard. While everyone starts enjoying it two men say they saw what happened to Zoro after everyone else, including Sanji, was knocked out. Sanji drags them out and asks what happened. After being told about Zoro risking his life and taking in all of Luffy's pain from their time on Thriller Bark so far, he makes them swear not to tell anyone, especially Luffy since he would get sad at the thought that all the pain, he took for his friends was in one of them. Everyone starts partying, and Luffy tries to feed Zoro, still knocked out from taking all of his pain, some rum, but Chopper won't let him. Brook plays the piano, and everyone starts partying. Luffy asks once again if Brook wants to join the crew seeing he got his shadow back. Brook declines again, saying that he made a promise to Laboon the whale. Luffy then tells Brook he doesn't need to worry and that Laboon's fine. Brook starts crying with happiness and has a flashback to when he first met Laboon.

About 50 years ago, the Rumbar Pirates left the young Laboon in the care of Crocus at the outlet of Reverse Mountain. Brook, then the crew's musician, promised the whale that they would sail around the world, and return for him.
Some time later, the wreckage of Brook's ship floats aimlessly in the Florian Triangle. Brook, resurrected by his Yomi Yomi no Mi Devil Fruit powers but not before his body decayed into a skeleton, is gathering the remains of the rest of his crew. The last skeleton he stores below deck is that of Mizuta Madaisuki. He places the skulls all in a separate casket. He remembers the earlier day when they had to face a particularly nasty weather, including waterspouts. They regrouped in the galley, where Brook prepared to play his violin to cheer up the crew. Brook scares himself when he passes by a mirror, confirming that he had indeed reanimated his skeleton. He recalls a situation where Yorki punished two crewmembers who had been fighting over a near friendly fire incident during a battle. Yorki punched the crewmember who was almost shot, telling him the pain is a reminder that he's still alive. During one night, Brook wonders how Laboon is doing, and Yorki ribs him for being overly sentimental. They later celebrate a victory over the Marines which earned Yorki another increase in his bounty.
Brook's wandering leads him to the steering wheel. While quietly humming "Binks' Sake", he spins the wheel. It shows that the broken rudder is not moving. In another flashback, the crew is shown to be worrying about Yorki's illness. It turns out he contracted an infectious disease at a recent jungle island, and infected ten other crewmembers. The ship's doctor says he does not know this disease, and it may kill the crew if Yorki and the other infected aren't evacuated. They land at the next island, where Yorki orders the able-bodied crewmembers to leave the original ship and get a new one. He and the other ill crewmembers would then try to return to West Blue through the Calm Belt. Brook is the last to leave Yorki's side. Yorki takes Brook's hand, and asks that the ship be sent off to their favorite song.
Ten years after he originally entered the Grand Line, Brook is doing his best to amuse himself. He rolls up and down the deck of the ship, and working on his "45 degrees" trick. While sleeping, he dreams that he is back on the ship, with the entire crew back, including Yorki. But when he falls on his face, he's snapped out of his dream, and back into his lonely reality of being stuck as a skeleton on a broken ship in the Florian Triangle. He looks through the broken galley and sees his piano. He remembers a day when he wondered if Yorki made it safely through the Calm Belt. As their journey continues, Brook eventually gets a bounty for himself. Of course, they sing wherever they go, no matter what situation they are in. The scene returns to Thriller Bark in the present day, where Brook is playing for the Thriller Bark Victim's Association and the Straw Hat Pirates.
Brook stops playing, and takes a moment to undo the bandage on his head. He opens his skull, shocking Usopp and Sanji, and pulls out a Tone Dial, setting it on the piano. He says it's very rare, but Luffy says they learned about Dials on Skypiea. Brook says he keeps the Tone Dial in his body at all times, and plans on playing it for Laboon when he finishes his journey. He tells Usopp that the Tone Dial carries a song, a message to Laboon that the crew was happy all the way to the end of their journey. Brook asks if he can play the Tone Dial, and Luffy says he should. Brook reaches for the tone dial.
In another flashback, Brook's ship is ruined. The Rumbar Pirates have been decimated by an unknown enemy in the Florian Triangle. The crew finds that the enemy used poisoned weapons against them; those still alive, won't be for much longer. The crew worries about Laboon, and one crewmember inquires about Brook's Yomi Yomi no Mi powers. Brook says he's never died before, but he suddenly gets an idea. He finds a Tone Dial that the crew had purchased. He suggests that if they're going to die, why not die happy? He says that they should sing one last time, and record it on the Tone Dial. If the Yomi Yomi no Mi works and he is revived, he will find a way to deliver the Tone Dial to Laboon.
As the song is recorded in the past, it is played in the present. Lola gets everyone singing and dancing again. Brook plays the piano to the tune as they hear the Rumbar Pirates sing "Binks' Sake". In the present, the crowd gathered at Thriller Bark sings the song. A scene in the past is shown of the Rumbar Pirates playing the song for Laboon, who even chirps along to the song. Another flashback shows Brook singing it alone during his solitude following his revival. As they record it, the Rumbar Pirates die one at a time, but they all sing to their final breath, and die smiling. Brook tearfully counts down the last four in musical terms until he is the last one left. "What's wrong? Now this is just a quartet... trio... duet... solo. Why? Leaving just the accompaniment..." But as he plays the piano alone to his own demise, he remembers the original mission of the Rumbar Pirates, to bring joy to children through their music, and the promise he made to Laboon. He has a smile on his face when he finally succumbs and dies.
Back in the present, as he entertains the Straw Hats and Thriller Bark, Brook resolves to finally keep his promise to Laboon and return to him.

Brook told Monkey D. Luffy that he was truly glad to be alive despite the trials he had experienced since reviving over 50 years before. Brook asked if Luffy's original invitation to join the Straw Hat Pirates was still open, and Luffy accepted him as part of the crew. All the Straw Hat Pirates were shocked by this, except for Roronoa Zoro, who was sleeping, and Nico Robin, who knew Luffy would accept him no matter what, but they nevertheless welcomed him to the crew. Brook fully introduced himself, revealing he is a wanted pirate himself, with a bounty of 33,000,000, though it's highly unlikely the Marines would identify him by his bones.
Two days later, Usopp and Franky made a grave for the dead Rumbar Pirates. Brook is glad that his comrades finally have a resting place, especially since the soil at Thriller Bark is from their native West Blue; the Thousand Sunny wasn't big enough to store their remains anyway. He then spent some time playing the violin, when Zoro arrived. Zoro then planted the broken Yubashiri at the grave and joined Brook in his mourning. Zoro and Brook finally had a chance to get acquainted; Zoro teasingly pitied the skeleton, saying he's now part of a crazy crew.
Eventually, the Straw Hats were ready to depart. Lola told everybody she wished they could party just a little longer. Franky told her that the Thriller Bark Victim's Association can use Brook's ship, on which he repaired the rudder and sails. Lola asked Franky to marry her, but he politely declined, saying he's "too super" for such to work out. Lola then gave Nami a Vivre Card, which points the way to her mother, a pirate in the New World.
Luffy took out the piece of paper he received from his brother, Portgas D. Ace, which turned out to also be a Vivre Card. To their surprise, Ace's card was burning and shrinking, a sign that Ace's life was in danger. As Luffy and his crew sail away, three enormous and mysterious figures appeared in the fog, looking over Thriller Bark. The Victims decided to set sail the next day.
Nami asked Luffy if he's alright sailing on knowing Ace might be in danger. Brook said he doesn't mind a detour, while others like Franky expressed interest in taking Brook straight to Laboon. Believing that Ace can get out of trouble on his own, Luffy decided to head onward rather than go to rescue him. He says Ace doesn't like looking weak, and he wanted to meet him in the New World at full strength as a rival. The Straw Hats shared another toast for Brook, since Zoro was asleep during the first one, and take a Coup de Burst for a jump-start to their next adventure.

The Straw Hats realize that Spa Island was just a sham. Doran is revealed to be collaborating with Foxy to get the secret ingredient for the gem. Lina has searched everywhere but can't find any sign of Sayo. She pleads with Luffy to save her sister as he wants to see the gem.
Luffy wishes to wreck Spa Island, much to the crew's protest. Zoro agrees to the plan. Luffy tells Franky to take care of the Sunny, while the crew begin to wreck the island-ship, causing flooding in multiple area and also fighting through Doran's henchmen.
Angered, Doran reveals a massive cannon and shows Sayo tied up on the roof and in the cannon's range. Doran then demonstrates his cannon's firepower leaving Sayo at the greedy owner's mercy. He demands the notebook be handed to him unless Doran executes Sayo. Desperate, Sayo insists on Lina to complete their father's research and make the gem that would save their village.
Lina thinks back on how her father hasn't come home from work. Their father soon arrived to see a cake made for him. He also shows 30-year-old shells that could prove useful in his research. He also ate the cake, but the heat from the sun made it go back, so he collapsed. Their father also told that Lina was determined to hold a birthday party for him. As their father left, he didn't want greedy men to take his work.
Lina and her father once did clover-leaf hunting.
Lina then realizes she very well forgot about her cloverleaf and refuses to surrender the notebook to Doran. Robin uses Seis Fleur to hold the greedy entrepreneur down, then Usopp shoots a Special Tobasco Star to heat up his mouth. Nami and Chopper race to rescue Sayo, but find the lock needs a key. Then, Zoro cuts through the cannon with a Great Buddha Slayer and frees Sayo. Brook relaxes while he is admonished by Usopp.
Desperate, Doran releases the ship's ballast and tries to blast Luffy, but he dodges, goes into Third Gear and bashes a Gigant Axe onto the cannon, defeating the corrupt Doran and splitting Spa Island in two. Porche wakes Foxy up while the Thousand Sunny sales away. Lina then catches Luffy as he tells how he forgot the side effects of Third Gear. While in the water, Lina spots a big X as Sanji carries them out. The X that Rina found is an underwater volcano.
In the sky, a round rainbow forms, leaving the crew astonished. They soon learn the Round-Rainbow is the gem of the sea. Doran swims away from Foxy who is giving chase.
Days later, Nukky flies in using a bird form to give a message from Lina of how they made a special cake and were successful in their experiment. Luffy observes the gem, and a candy rain falls. During the rainfall, Luffy loses the gem and says, "Oops dropped the gem." Then Nami screams at them to find it again.

During a particularly calm night, Brook is on watch, manning the steering wheel while reflecting on the peace. He remembers his old companion Laboon, and contemplates his new companions, the Straw Hat Pirates. He recalls discovering a journal recounting the adventures and battles the crew have gone through. He vows that as long as he's their friend, he will act appropriately. The next morning, Brook wakes everyone up by singing Black Handkerchief of Happiness, much to everyone's annoyance.
At breakfast, Brook's laughter grabs everyone's attention and Chopper notices that Brook has read their journal. Brook announces that since he has become their comrade, he does not feel like he has been of any help, but intends to work himself "to the bone" to become acceptable.
In the kitchen later on, Brook washes up, while Sanji is preparing tea to serve Nami. Brook slips and drops the dishes, but Sanji manages to catch them with his legs, arms and mouth. Trying to be helpful, Brook decides to deliver Nami's tea, much to Sanji's frustration.
Brook goes to Nami to deliver her tea. As he arrives, she explains that she is catching up on her map drawing in the calm weather. Brook offers to refill her cup of tea, but fails to notice when it overflows until Nami sees it. Brook tries to clean up the map, but only manages to wipe away the ink. He rushes away to escape Nami's wrath.
Luffy calls him over to see a new cola-powered cannon developed by Franky and Usopp. Franky asks Brook to fetch another barrel of cola. Brook gladly complies, but picks up a barrel at random. Usopp and Franky target a nearby rock formation and attempt to fire, but the cannon explodes, showering fluid everywhere. It turns out the barrel Brook fetched was full of soy, not cola. An enraged Franky chases Brook while Chopper, who was drying medicinal plants, finds that they are ruined.
Brook goes up to the crow's nest in order to train with Zoro. Zoro welcomes him, and begins his meditation. Brook tries to join, but continually annoys Zoro until he loses his temper.
Upset, Brook wonders if all he has done is to be an inconvenience to everyone. Robin notices he seems perturbed, and asks what is wrong. After hearing his troubles, she explains that she also felt out of place, but now the crew is her family. They risked their lives to save her at Enies Lobby, and she is prepared to do the same for them. As Brook reflects on her words, Luffy rushes up and tells them that it's time for food.
Later on, Brook sits out on deck, enjoying a cup of tea and then napping. Brook begins to think about how long it has been since he has had an afternoon nap so comfortably. In the Florian Triangle, falling asleep would lead to him dreaming about being with his old crew and Laboon, only to wake up to a lonely and painful reality. But now, he's surrounded by his friends. As the sun begins to set, Brook plays Binks' Sake on his violin.

In the Holy Land of Mary Geoise, Kuma appears before Sengoku who demands why he let the Straw Hat pirates go. Garp accepts his grandson's tenacity to the anger of his superior. The older admiral says that no one will believe Luffy's story on how he had beaten Moria. Sengoku knows that because Kuma showed compassion to the Straw Hats, if they follow their log pose continually, they'll reach the Navy Headquarters. Garp then presents some tea that Sengoku rejects.
On the Thousand Sunny, the Straw Hats begin to feel bored while Luffy, Chopper, Usopp and Brook they are fishing as Zoro and the others have tea. Luffy complains the group hasn't arrived at Fish-Man Island yet while Nami warns they will be closing in. Sanji thinks of mermaids, but then Usopp spots a school of fish. Nami spots that the fish are trying to swim away from something. Just then, the Thousand Sunny finds itself in a seasnake current. The waters form large columns shocking the crew.
Sanji tries to take evasive action for the ship, but it's stuck while the seasnake column drops onto the ship. Zoro cuts through one and gets damp. Franky shoots a Weapons Left at a seasnake and is drenched as well. Luffy launches a Gum-Gum Pistol at another seasnake, getting wet too, while Brook cuts a seasnake and jokes on how the situation is as slippery as a snake. The crew begin to fend off more seasnakes while Nami points even if the ship flies, the seasnakes will just catch them. Brook prepares to play a song, but a seasnake bounces the ship off. Chopper almost falls into the water until he is caught by Robin.
A while later, Nami and the crew spot the entrance to the Red Line. Sanji thinks of the storm the Straw Hats had to navigate through to get to the Grand Line along with the lighthouse. Brook looks back on how it took 50 years for him to get to the Red Line and on his former crew. Spotting a more massive seasnake, Nami advises Sanji to ride the wave. The Thousand Sunny rides along the seasnake and Brook activates the Coup de Burst, flying out of the Seasnake Current.
The manage to see how large the Red Line is, and Luffy tells of the many obstacles the crew had to face. Franky remembers how he ventured into the South Blue through Reverse Mountain, and Robin remembers how she entered the Grand Line through the West Blue. On Luffy's end, he hopes to sail the ship around the world to get to the wall one more time.
Nami warns the crew is dangerously close to Mary Geoise, the home of Navy Headquarters. Chopper and Usopp take a swim while Zoro exercises while thinking of how he barely managed to survive Kuma's assault. Nami checks on Robin, Brook and Luffys progress in the water. The skeleton swordsman reports of a monster in the water and requests to Nami the kind of panties she's wearing but she threatens him.
As Luffy, Robin and Brook use the Shark Submerge III, the water pressure rises from going over 500 feet. Just then, A Sea Rabbit appears out of the darkness and tries to eat the submarine. Sanji presents some tarts made from Thriller Bark. Nami begins to worry about how to get to Fish-Man Island, just as Shark Submerge III emerges. Luffy shows he, Brook and Robin had no luck searching for the island just as the Sea Rabbit strikes again. Luffy uses a Gum Gum Rifle to punch the sea monster, but then it spits out a mermaid and a starfish. The mermaid lands on Sanji while the starfish talks on how he survived. The mermaid shows excitement for the cook saving her, but the starfish insists he go back into the Sea Rabbit's mouth.
The mermaid shows shock at landing hard on a human and apologizes to Sanji who shows love for her. Eventually, the crew surprised to see a mermaid on their ship.

The crew, excluding Robin, are all shocked at the sight of Camie, who is still trying to wake up Sanji after she fell on his head, but in reality he's just in awe at the sight of her as well. But when Camie turns around, she pauses before freaking out at the sight of a bunch of humans. After she calms down, she thanks them for saving her from the Sea King and saying it was the twentieth time she was eaten by one. She says she needs to them in someway and asks to make some Takoyaki, which Luffy says is his favorite. But she says that it'll be 500 Berries per person which surprises the crew and makes Pappag slap and she says she messed up.
Meanwhile, Sanji is still lovesick shouting "Mermaid" and stating that it's first time he has seen one. But Usopp says him that it's not the first time he's seen and reminds him of Kokoro, which sickens Sanji stating that Thriller Bark wasn't scary compared to the sight of Granny Kokoro as mermaid. Usopp apologizes, tells him to pretend he didn't say that and that it's the first time he's seen one, which Nami says is rude. Luffy asks if Granny Kokoro was a mermaid and says that she was walking. Franky remembers that Luffy wasn't around as he was fighting Lucci when she revealed that she was a mermaid to save the crew from drowning back in Enies Lobby. Luffy puts on a disgusted face and says that he doesn't want to think of Kokoro as a mermaid, which angers Nami and forces her to punch him, noting that he's too blunt. Brook walks up to Camie and asks her for money and Sanji kicks him hard, but Camie is super scared because he's a skeleton, which enrages Sanji even more. Brook trying to calm her down opens his head, and Sanji kicks him away but Camie is actually entertained by it, which Usopp notes saying that she accepts people quick. Then Luffy asks her if she "poops" and Sanji kicks him now. Sanji interrupts her answer and fights with Luffy.
Luffy notices Pappag and grabs him asking Camie what he is, which she answers by saying that he's a starfish, her pet and master. Luffy is confused, Nami asks if starfish talk and Usopp says that it's weird that it's her master. Pappag then sings and plays his guitar but the crew ignores him preferring to talk to Camie, and becomes glum. Luffy asks how he can talk which makes him become excited, which Usopp notes that he got over that quick. Pappag says that he thought he was human before realizing he was a starfish and in the process learned how to talk. He introduces himself as an up and coming designer and thanks them for saving him and Camie. Nami tries to ask how they can get to Fish-Man Island but Luffy yells that takoyaki comes first. Camie says that they'll have to meet up with Hatchan, which she pronounces "Hatchin".
Camie calls Hatchan on a transponder snail, but he doesn't answer. Instead it is Macro which freaks out Camie. Camie asks why he has Hatchan's snail, which Macro answers by saying that he beat him up, which Camie tries to deny. Macro says that yes normally they'd lose to Hatchan but this time they teamed up with the Flying Fish Riders. Hatchan is relieved that she survived. She asks if they really did beat him up and he answers that they caught off guard but warns her not to come save him and that he'll wreak havoc and go home. Macro says that he's gonna sell Hatchan, stating that he's worth a fortune since he's an Octopus Fish-Man, which are rare, and goads her into coming to save Hatchan and tells her the location of their of the Riders' hideout, which is in the Sabaody Archipelago. Hatchan repeats not to come but angers Macro and hits him, finally saying bye. Camie becomes a bit down and Sanji sympathizes with her, but Luffy asks where's the takoyaki, which makes Franky and Sanji hit him. Nami then notes his voice sounded familiar, thinking of the possibility that he was the Hatchan from the Arlong Pirates. Camie says that she has to go save Hatchan and that she'll have to give the takoyaki some other time, which bums out Luffy and makes Franky and Sanji him him again. Nami says that they (meaning the others in the crew and not her) will help her save Hatchan in exchange for how to get to Fish-Man Island. Camie verifies if Luffy will help her and he says asks who he actually is, which she replies by saying that he's owner of the takoyaki shop and her boss, noting that it's the best in the world. Luffy becomes excited and orders the crew to save him. Nami asks where he is, Camie pulls out a map and Pappag shows the area. Camie calls a school of fish to show her the way there, which amazes Luffy and Nami. They point the way there and Luffy compliments her skills of talking to fish which makes blush. They head out.
At the Riders' hideout, Macro reports to Duval that he lured her to the base and that the plan is going well. Duval orders a few of his men to go meet her but before they leave, Macro reminds them that she's valuable so not to harm her. Macro then taunts Hatchan before the Rider's head out on their planes.
Back on the Sunny, Luffy introduces Zoro to Camie which reminds him of Kokoro and saying that she's the first one he's seen like Sanji and company which shocks Chopper. Camie worries for Hatchan but Pappag consoles her saying that he's strong. Pappag then asks if they are confident in their skills which Luffy responds by saying that they are strong. He then informs them that there several kidnapping crews in the area and that human trading is a booming business in Sabaody, which Sanji says is a nasty business. Pappag talks about the costs and that mermaids are expensive, explaining why Macro tries to kidnap Camie all the time. Zoro says that hearing "Hachi" and octopus reminds him of the "idiot" fish-man he fought back in Arlong Park. Sanji says that if it's him, he's not gonna save him. Franky asks who the Flying Fish Riders are, who Pappag says is a very active kidnapping gang in the area and their boss is a guy in an iron mask called Duval, also saying that he is looking for someone and checks every passing ship. Luffy tells Camie not to worry and that he will save the "takoyaki" and order Brook to play a song on the way there.
Suddenly the school backs out cause the Riders arrived. Since they're flying in planes, Luffy could not spot them but Camie shows him. They attack the ship and notice that they are the Straw Hats. They go for another bombing run but Zoro and Luffy block the bombs with 72 Pound Cannon and Gomu Gomu no Pistol respectively, while Brook and Chopper cower in fear. The Riders decide to withdraw under Duval's orders.
Back at the Riders' HQ, Duval informs Macro that Camie is on a pirate ship. Duval gets enraged saying that he's been waiting for the Straw Hats and declaring that he'll kill the man who ruined his life.

After their brief initial run-in with the Flying Fish Riders, the Straw Hat Pirates begin to plan their rescue of Camie's fish-man friend. Luffy is excited over their flying fish. Usopp asks Franky to move the cannons up to the deck so they can shoot down the flying fish. Camie is worried about "Hacchin", but Pappag says she should worry about herself, since she's the one the Macro Pirates are after. Back at their compound, Duval tells the Riders that he aborted the attack because he wanted to kill the man that ruined his life himself. He thanks the Macro Pirates for their help; he had no idea that their alliance would hasten his finding the Straw Hats.
Overhearing this freaks out the Macro Pirates' hostage: Hatchan, the octopus Fish-Man that, long before, was a member of the Arlong Pirates. He is distressed that the very pirates that defeated him before are coming to save him now. He knows Nami will be among them, and figures there's no way they'll save him once they find out who he is. As the Thousand Sunny arrives at Duval's compound, they put Hatchan in a cage, despite a last-ditch effort to bribe the Macro Pirates into freeing him with takoyaki. Nami continues to show concern as everyone refers to Camie's friend as "Hacchin". When Hatchan sees the ship, and recognizes the crew, he makes one last effort to break out of his cage, before spitting ink all over himself in a thin attempt at a disguise.
Nobody else is around "Hacchin"'s cage; the Straw Hats are certain he is being used as a trap of some sort. As they approach the inky creature, he begs Camie to turn around, that he'll get free himself and rejoin them somehow. The longer they persist, the more doubt grows among the Straw Hats who fought Arlong. Sanji calls out, asking how Arlong was doing. Hatchan responds that Arlong and the others were captured by the Marines, but he escaped to chase his dream as a takoyaki cook. Luffy recognizes him immediately; Hatchan curses himself for letting it slip.
Usopp explains to the more recent crew members how Arlong ruled over Nami's home island, and Luffy defeated them. Zoro pointedly tells Camie that Hatchan is no friend of theirs. Luffy aborts the rescue, but before they move to leave, he asks how good his takoyaki is. Hatchan understands, figuring this is exactly what would happen, but Camie and Pappag refuse to believe they'd go back on their promise. They jump overboard to rescue him themselves...only to be caught within seconds by the Macro Pirates. Hatchan starts crying, and thrashes about in his cage, trying to get out to save Camie. Seeing his effort, Nami relents and tells the crew to go save Hatchan. She says they promised Camie, and Hatchan is probably harmless to them by now. Luffy agrees, but it's clear he still just wants takoyaki.
Duval relaxes for a moment with his helmet off, and calls his associates on Den Den Mushi, asking if his men's "preparations" are complete. Luffy jumps off the ship, using Gomu Gomu no Pistol to grab Camie and Pappag, then uses Hatchan's cage as a stepping stone to get on Duval's compound. Macro is surprised that he's a Devil Fruit user. Luffy orders Zoro to cut Hatchan's cage open, but the octopus warns them that the Flying Fish Riders' trap has been sprung. Duval gives the order, and the Flying Fish Riders rise from the ocean, circling the compound and the Thousand Sunny. Luffy orders his crew to prepare for battle, assuring Camie that they are ready for anything.

As the Flying Fish Riders make their initial flyovers of the Thousand Sunny, Luffy grabs onto one and throws its driver off, going on a joyride. Sanji easily kicks away the first drop of grenades toward the ship. Nami orders the sails raised, but the battle is almost stopped dead in its tracks when the fish make their first dive to regroup; they can only stay in the air for five minutes at a time. This puts Luffy underwater, and he starts drowning. Chopper and Brook jump after him, and they drown, too. Franky and Nami have to save all three. Nami berates them for the interruption to their battle.
The Macro Pirates rise and go after Camie and Pappag again. At this point, Zoro cuts the cage open, freeing Hatchan to join the fight. Hatchan takes the Fish-Men on, with Tansui being an expert at Fish-Man karate, and Gyaro having developed "goldfish fencing". But they're knocked away when Hatchan throws three fists, his "Takoyaki Punch", then reunites with his friends. Zoro slashes a fish rider that gets too close to them. Although he apologizes to Zoro for his actions in the fight against Arlong, Zoro reminds him that his Six Sword Style proved no match to his own Three Sword Style back then.
Duval orders his men to engage in "The Zero Fight", and offers to reimburse his men for any medical fees incurred from the dangerous battle plan. One of the men goes in for a kamikaze attack. Sanji kicks the man off, while Luffy stops the fish with Gomu Gomu no Fusen and takes it on the ship for dinner. He then determines to ride one again, though Nami says she won't save him if he drowns again. Brook gets down on himself, since drowning was the first thing he did in battle for the Straw Hats. He jumps in the air, unsheathing his sword from his cane, and plays "Lullaby Song" on his violin, putting several fish riders-as well as Luffy and Chopper-to sleep. He then gets in the water, using his extremely light weight in combination with his superhuman strength to run on the water and slash several of the fish. Luffy grabs one of the fish whose driver was put to sleep, and crashes right into Duval's hut. Duval puts his helmet on, and turns to greet the shocked captain.
Back outside, Zoro is already winded, still not 100% after his run-in with Bartholomew Kuma on Thriller Bark. Brook slashes some more fish, then tires and jumps onto the compound by Zoro and Hatchan. They get ambushed by a fish rider, who Hatchan slashes with Six Sword Style Takoashi Kiken. Zoro and Brook returned the favor shortly after. As the fish riders get in formation, Franky is confused by their words, thinking they're calling for him. Nami and Robin continue the fight on the ship, with Chopper using a Rumble Ball get to Arm Point. Franky stops one that shot at him with Strong Hammer.
Luffy runs through Duval's compound, and is chased out by his spear cannon and his bison, Motobaro. They run out, with Duval mad that his men are getting mowed down so easily. He runs Hatchan and Camie off, saying he didn't enter the slave trade for the money. It was part of his plan to exact revenge on one man: Sanji. At first, Sanji has no idea why Duval would be angry at him. He thinks it might be something from his time on the Baratie, but Duval says it's quite recent, further dumbfounding the chef. The spears are poisoned with scorpion venom; any hit will result in death in three minutes.
Luffy tells Zoro that he's seen what's under Duval's mask, and Zoro will recognize him, too. He moves in, and kicks off Duval's mask. Everyone sees why Duval is so angry: his face looks exactly like the composite sketch drawn for Sanji's wanted poster. As a result, he's been pursued by the Marines and bounty hunters in Sanji's place. This idea infuriates Sanji greatly.

With Duval's face revealed, the Straw Hats are in awe as it looks like Sanji's wanted poster. Duval blames Sanji for everything that happened to him years ago. He also tells of how bounty hunters came after him at the behest of the Marines. As Sanji makes it where Luffy is, the Flying Fish leader tells his enemy that he had to hide all his life. As he demands his life back, Sanji kicks Duval squarely in the face. Then, Duval and Sanji argue about the face on the wanted poster. The rest of the Straw Hats believe Sanji is lucky while Franky is thinking of making friends with Duval. The cook then yells that Duval should've shaved before hunting him down. Duval explains that he and his gang wanted a casual lifestyle. They were only petty bandits making a living.
One of his gang members scolded a girl for spilling ice cream, and threatened her father. As their reign carried on, the Marines put out a bounty for Sanji forcing the town to clear out. At first, Duval thought the villagers would both fear and respect him, but the Marines reached him, thinking the bandit to be Black Leg Sanji. Surprised, Duval tried to tell the Marines otherwise. Ruined, he had traveled with his gang and got his back severely injured. Duval became determined to chase Sanji to hell. Sanji grips the Flying Fish leader for putting Nami and Robin in harms way. Duval then tries to shoot his Scorpion Harpoons, but the cook dodges. Duval then orders a trap formation. As the Flying Fish Riders close in, Sanji kicks a rider, but is struck by a steel net and pulled underwater.
Luffy tries to save Sanji, but Zoro reminds him of his Devil Fruit abilities, so Hatchan has to race to the rescue. Duval points out the speed of the Flying Fish as they can use oxygen tanks ensuring that Sanji will drown. Eventually, Sanji passes out. Then, Camie dives into the water after Sanji. Pappag then says that even if the Flying Fish Riders and Fish-Men are fast underwater, mermaids are much faster than them. Luffy then wishes the mermaid luck. Then, the Flying Fish Riders bring up a large anchor to drop onto the Thousand Sunny. Franky heads to the wheel and announces there was a secret weapon installed just as the Flying Fish Riders drop the anchor. Just as the anchor hits, Franky activates the Chicken Voyage, taking evasive maneuvers. Usopp then heads to the bow and finds some controls with a weapon stored. Duval is horrified to see the head of the Sunny opening, revealing a cannon. With the weapon aimed at the hideout, the Gaon Cannon is fired, hitting the hideout badly.
The Flying Fish Riders are beaten and Duval looks on in horror. Franky then explains how it uses an amount of cola. Just then, the net gets tangled and Camie carries Sanji back to the surface. But Sanji has a nosebleed because Camie had pressed his face in her breasts while rescuing him. Now angry, Duval charges at Luffy using Motobaro, but is countered. Motobaro shakes in fear and passes out. Robin begins to think Luffy won the animal over. Sanji then steps up claiming Duval is a freak. Angry at how the wanted poster came out, Sanji then begins to bombard Duval's face with a series of kicks. He then finishes with a Parage Shot and kicks the Flying Fish leader into another building. Sanji then concludes that he gave Duval a full course free of charge.

After the victory of the Flying Fish Riders, the gang searches for Duval. They find him unconscious under the rubble of a building. Duval wakes up covering his face. The gang shows a mirror and then, Duval sees his new face in shock.
Meanwhile, Luffy gorges on Hatchan's takoyaki on his Takoyaki 8 vendor ship. The crew enjoy the food that Hatchan prepared for them. Camie also presents some rice cakes and miso. Nami seems to have trouble tasting the food and threatens Hatchan. However, she finds the rice cakes tasty.
As they continue their tastes, Duval and his gang arrive, but the leader wants to thank Sanji for rearranging his face. He now has a handsome face and wants a rosy life. Before departing, Duval hopes the crew will ask if they have any troubles. Sanji orders him to leave believing he'll be happy. Duval then becomes infatuated with Nami thinking she blew him a kiss, but she was wiping sauce off her lips.
Usopp calls Duval an idiot, but then the former Flying Fish leader presents his number and declares his gang the Rosy Life Riders.
With the crew stuffed and Hatchan tired, Camie cleans up with everyone satisfied. As Brook passes gas, Nami punches him in a rage.
Over some tea, Camie then points out the crew needs to get to Sabaody Archipelago. Normally, the water pressure would crush submarines. Pappag announces he would enlighten the group about the ocean. There are two routes to get to the New World; One route allows Marine Ships through Marie Jois without trouble but will deny pirates passage. Another passage is the ocean floor passage that goes through Fish-Man Island.
Chopper seems to have second thoughts, but as the Thousand Sunny is not equipped to go underwater, Camie hopes to get the equipment for the ship. 
At the bottom of the Red Line is a big hole that will lead to Fish-Man Island about 10,000 meters underwater. Camie also points out the ship needs a coating.
Just then, the Thousand Sunny arrives at the Sabaody Archipelago with bubbles floating about. 
Luffy becomes excited to see the bubbles. Camie points out the bubbles float out of the ground. Hatchan then explains the mangrove trees as they stick to the water and home to the Hustle Muscle Mangroves. There is also a set of towns on the archipelago and numbers mark the trees. Bridges connect the islands.
The ship arrives at Grove 41 and Luffy gets off first. A bubble comes up and Luffy jumps onto them. Robin sees how the ground is sticky.
Luffy then sees an amusement park called Sabaody Park with a ferris wheel that Camie is obsessed with, but Pappag denies her. Suddenly, the bubbles pop and drop Luffy to the ground hard but he then gets his head out. 
Hatchan then explains they need to find a coating specialist so they can coat the Thousand Sunny. He also trusts an expert ship coater and hopes to find him, but also warns of the World Nobles. Under no circumstances are they to engage the World Nobles even if they kill someone.

At Grove 41, Franky and Usopp fill up with some cola with Sanji also staying on the Thousand Sunny. He plans to wait for Nami while guarding her treasure. Zoro disembarks and heads to town. Zoro yells out that the trees are marked by numbers, so he won't get lost. He first thinks the grove is number 1, due to a bubble blocking the first digit.
Meanwhile, Hatchan explains that the World Nobles are also known as the Celestial Dragons and wear masks, so they don't breathe the same air as common people. The Sabaody Archipelago is also a place where everyone gathers before heading to the New World. There are also infamous pirates stationed there, and there's no law against pirate trafficking. As Navy Headquarters is dangerously close, they need to be on the lookout. Luffy also spots an injury on Hatchan's forehead because Camie and Hatchan need to disguise themselves as humans.
Luffy then puts his head and arms into a bubble and goes inside. A shopkeeper then shows a bike that can go into the bubble. Luffy then operates the bike in the bubble without it breaking. They are called Bubble Bikes. Hatchan just wants to rent two bikes.
As the group rides around, Hatchan points out that the bubble will pop if one leaves the atmosphere of the archipelago. Camie also says the Bubble Bikes can also be used on Fish-Man Island. Pappag also mentions the Mermaid Princess with Brook looking forward to meeting her.
Then, Luffy and Chopper visit a grand bun shop run by Antonio. The buns read Grandline Half as they are meant to be souvenirs.
At Grove #35, Hatchan points out that they are the quarters of the Marines awaiting permission to get to the New World. The purchased goods are placed in a bubble pack. Hatchan says that they need to get to Grove #13.
At the shopping mall, Nami begins to feel something is foreboding with Camie.
Luffy's party use their Bubble Bikes at high-speed racing to Grove 13. Meanwhile, a woman bumps into a man named Devil Dias who is pleading for his collar to be removed and wants to go home. He just wants to meet his family again when Luffy overhears. Hatchan points out Devil Dias was sold into slavery, but then, the collar ticks and goes off like a bomb. He then collapses giving up on going to the New World.
Hatchan then warns about the collars while the Straw Hats are horrified. Just then, the group kneels before Saints Shalria and Rosward as they pass through. They see how the collar affected Devil Dias and Shalria sees the slave as useless. She then shoots the slave, and his body is removed.
Hatchan says they need to leave. Brook offers some tea, but Camie turns him down. Pappag warns if one takes action against a Celestial Dragon, all of Marine Headquarters will hunt the target down. The Celestial Dragons is descended from the founders of the World Government. Then, a group of bounty hunters spot Luffy.

Luffy's group begins to look for Rayleigh and "searches" the local amusement park. There they spend most of the day enjoying themselves, even fulfilling Camie's dream of riding the Ferris wheel. However unbeknownst to them, a bounty hunter named Peterman is tailing them, having gotten info that Camie is a mermaid from the bounty hunters that Luffy's group previously encountered. Meanwhile, on another part of the Sabaody Archipelago, Saint Charlos, another World Noble, comes across a critically injured man and the doctors who are carrying him to the hospital. Miffed that the doctors are still on their feet and moving in his presence, Saint Charlos kicks the stretcher so that the injured man tumbles to the ground. He then takes notice of the attractive nurse and proceeds to take her for his thirteenth wife, shooting her fiancee when he tries to object. Zoro, who stumbles upon the scene, is not familiar with the World Nobles, and unintentionally angers Saint Charlos with his blunt manner. Saint Charlos fires his gun at him, but Zoro immediately dodges and goes into counterattack. However, Jewelry Bonney intervenes in the nick of time to prevent an admiral from being dispatched to the archipelago. She uses tomato juice to make it seem as if Zoro had been shot. Satisfied, Saint Charlos leaves, and Jewelry Bonney berates Zoro for nearly screwing over all the pirates in Sabaody (only to be ignored for the most part), while three the other Supernovas present remark on the close call. Back at the Sunny, Sanji, Usopp and Franky receive an urgent call from Chopper revealing that Camie has been kidnapped, and Luffy's group does not know where to look for her due to the size of the archipelago. Sanji tells them to stand by, explaining that he will call the Rosy Life Riders.

The Rosy Life Riders arrive. Sanji gets straight to business and tells them that a mermaid was kidnapped. Franky asks them for help in the search for the kidnappers. Usopp, Franky and Sanji get on the flying fishes and they set off. Duval says that they will pick up the Straw Hat Pirates while tracking down the slave traders.
Chopper is pacing up and down, thinking of Sanji's instructions and the separation of the Straw Hats. When he sees Brook sipping tea calmly, he is shocked and berates him, reminding him of Camie's fate if she is sold. Brook calms Chopper down. When Usopp comes to pick them up, he is shocked to see their relaxed state. Usopp smacks them and they set off, splitting up to investigate the slave traders and pick up the remaining Straw Hats. Sanji is lagging behind since he is on Duval's ride, Motobaro.
Zoro drops off the patient at a hospital and decides to return to the ship, believing it to be anchored at Grove 1. Luffy looks for Camie in a shop selling slaves but to no avail. Pappag starts blaming himself for letting her go to Sabaody Park. He says that mermen and fish-men should not even be on the island but Hatchan wanted to help the Straw Hats. Before he can complete his sentence, he is interrupted by Hatchan, who asks him not to continue. Luffy demands to know and Pappag explains that Camie's and Hatchan's enemies are not only slave traders but rather every human on the island.
Robin is explaining the past to Nami, saying that fish-men are discriminated against and looked down by everyone. It only stopped 200 years ago when the World Government decided to help Fish-Man Island. However, the selling and trading of slaves is still acceptable on Sabaody Archipelago. Nami wonders if it was due to the past that Camie and Hatchan had to disguise themselves. Franky finds Nami and Robin and tells them that Camie was kidnapped.
Hatchan apologizes to Luffy, saying that instead of helping, he had created more trouble for him instead. Luffy reassures him, stating that they are his friends and they will definitely save Camie. Luffy's group is found by the Rosy Life Riders and they hitch a ride.
At Grove 1 where the Human Auctioning House can be found, Peterman makes his contribution, surprising the staff with Camie. Saint Rosward and Saint Shalria arrive at the Auctioning House. Eustass Kid observes their entry and comments that compared to them, the "villains of the world seems much more honorable." Heat, his crew member, draws his attention to Trafalgar Law, who is seated a few rows in front of them.
Camie is carried backstage and has the collar fitted on her. She recalls the scene on the streets where the collar explodes and struggles more violently. Disco comes to check on Camie and slaps her for making a face. Camie shouts that Hatchan will arrive and beat Disco up, angering him. He attempts to fit the collar on Camie but he faints. A giant opens his eye and addresses the person next to him, asking him to stop pretending as he knew that Haki was used by him and questions his identity. The man replies that he is just an old man who coats ships and loves young girls.

At the Marine Headquarters, a soldier reports to Vice Admiral Garp that Silvers Rayleigh is one of the slaves to be auction off at Sabaody Archipelago, making him burst into laughter. Garp says that he will handle the situation himself and orders him and his subordinate not to mention the matter to anyone else. Although the soldier is not very sure of the information, Garp is certain that it really is Rayleigh, and cautions against going up the Dark King unprepared. At the Human Auctioning House, Disco starts the auctions. The first slave is sold for 600 thousand belly. Disco seems to be in conspiracy with some of the bidders in the audience, jacking up the price. Sanji is shown the market price for the different type of slaves, which angers him. The rest of the Rosy Life Riders are still desperately searching for news concerning Camie. Usopp talks to the man who caught the giant slave and finds out that a mermaid has been brought to the auction house. They inform the rest that the kidnapper is Peterman and tells them about Camie's current location. With this, the riders head towards the auction house.
Zoro is surrounded by pirates with their swords drawn, wondering where is Grove 1. A pirate attempts to attack but is frightened by Zoro's glare, dropping his sword and pointing him in the right direction instead. Duval inquires about the information of the auction and reassures Sanji, saying that a mermaid would be the main attraction and Camie would definitely be saved for last. Sanji is frustrated at their speed but Duval claims that he has been heading for Grove 1 from the beginning and therefore, would be the first to arrive as he is their leader. However, Chopper arrives just before them and Sanji hits Duval. Franky arrives to see some of his crewmates demanding for the return of Camie from the staffs but they refuse. Franky wants to break her out and prepares to attack the house. However, he is stopped by Hatchan as there are Celestial Dragons inside. There is also the matter of the exploding collar that is on Camie. Chopper stops Sanji from attacking the staff while Nami resolves to get Camie back through their system. They enter the house and Heat brings their arrival to Eustass Kid's attention, who notes that Luffy is not present. The Straw Hat Pirates glare angrily as the auction proceeds. Nami calculates that they should have 200 million worth of treasure onboard and Hatchan says that it should be sufficient but he does not have the means to repay them. Nami states that to get their friend back, money is not an issue and the rest of the crew agrees.
Around the island, newspapers are being distributed to the inhabitants, who are alarmed at the breaking news. X Drake informs his crew that Fire Fist Ace is about to be executed, shocking them all. He states that there is going to be a war, as Whitebeard would surely retaliate against the World Government. The remaining Straw Hats head towards the auction house, while Camie is approached by the staff of the auction house.

Saint Charlos arrives at the Human Auctioning House, glad that the auction has not ended. He kicks his slave repeatedly, blaming him for his lateness which caused him to miss most of the auction. The Straw Hat Pirates notice his arrival and overhear Charlos expressing his desire for a mermaid. 
Disco introduces the next slave, Lacuba. However, the slave collapses and blood drips from him to the floor, eliciting screams from the audience. Panicky, Disco orders for the curtains to be pulled. Nami wonders what happened and Sanji explains that Lacuba bit his tongue, deciding to die instead of living as a slave. Camie is enclosed in a tank and the staffs prepare to reveal her to the crowd.
Zoro arrives at Grove 13 and is puzzled because previously he was at Grove 2. The pirates that surrounded him previously cross paths with him again. Zoro recognizes them and gives them a beating, accusing them of giving him fake directions. The pirates make the situation worst as they try to explain themselves. Luffy grabs Zoro as he flies pass and they head to Grove 1 on the flying fish.
Disco tries to cover up the accident by claiming that Lacuba had a nosebleed. Camie is brought onto stage and displayed to the crowd, causing a massive uproar. Nami gets ready to get Camie back and Charlos exclaims excitedly about the house finally selling a mermaid. Before Disco can announce the starting bid, Charlos interrupts with a bid of 500 million belly, shocking everyone into silence. Camie cannot hear anything from her tank and bangs on it, screaming for Hatchan to rescue her. Pappag and Hatchan sob sadly at the change of events. Disco asks for a higher bid while Charlos smiles smugly. Hatchan gets desperate and contemplates rescuing Camie by force before escaping to the seas. Pappag shoots down the idea, reminding Hatchan of the exploding collar. They stare angrily at the unfolding situation while Eustass Kid comments that he has seen enough and prepares to leave with his crew. Disco bangs his gavel to close the deal. Directly after that, there is a commotion as the flying fish that Luffy and Zoro is riding on crashed straight into the auction house. Luffy exclaims that they should have landed better but the rider retorts that it was Luffy himself who told him to crash into the building. Zoro is still clueless about the whole situation, believing Luffy to be headed for the Sunny and wonders where they are now. Trafalgar Law sees them and grins while Kid also recognizes Luffy. Luffy notices Camie and runs towards her. However, Hatchan grabs and tries to stop him by explaining about the collar and the Celestial Dragons, to which Luffy replies that he does not care. In his effort to stop him, Hatchan uses his other hands and reveals the fact that he is a fish-man to the crowd. The audience asks for him to be restrained and starts throwing things at him. Pappag urges Hatchan to escape while Sanji is confused by the crowd's reaction. Nami informs them that fish-man and merfolk are actually discriminated against on Saboady Archipelago.
A shot meant for Hatchan is fired by Charlos. Luffy halts and turns while Camie looks on in horror as Hatchan collapses. Charlos jumps around, proud of the fact that he shot a fish-man. The crowd is relieved while Charlos revels in the fact that he has just gotten a slave for free. Luffy stalks towards him angrily but is stopped by Hatchan, who reminds him of the promise he made: not to touch the Celestial Dragons even if someone was shot right before him. Hatchan states that he deserves it since he did awful things in the past. He apologizes to Luffy and says that he never wanted things to turn out this way, explaining that he just wanted to make amends to Nami for his past actions. Nami is surprised at this revelation while Hatchan continues apologizing profusely. Charlos is irked by Hatchan and prepares to fire another shot. Luffy stares at him angrily and heads towards him. Pappag shouts for Luffy to stop but his words are unheeded. Charlos fires two shots, which are dodged by Luffy with ease. Within reach, Luffy punches Charlos, sending him flying.

Luffy apologizes, knowing that his actions would bring an Admiral and a warship down from the Marine Headquarters to Sabaody Archipelago. Zoro is disappointed that he is denied his chance to cut Saint Charlos. Chopper says that he will tend to Hatchan's injuries and asks Franky to search for the key to free Camie. Saint Rosward is furious and fires at Luffy. The audience panics and evacuates from the building, with the exception of the Kid Pirates, Heart Pirates and the Celestial Dragons. Sanji attacks Rosward and kicks the gun from his hands. The Heart Pirates and Kid Pirates both observe the fight ensuing in the emptied auction stands.
Usopp is on his way to the Human Auctioning House and realizes that he is one of the late ones. He hurries the rider but falls off as a result. Robin saves him and speeds ahead along with Brook.
During the fight, Zoro cuts the tank holding Camie captive, allowing communication. Eustass Kid agrees that the rumors are true and that Luffy is one crazy guy.
Robin observed that there seem to be an uproar as the crowd is running for the exit. Brook tells the rider to crash inside while Usopp panics, saying that he is not ready. Robin and Brook jump off their ride and are on the offensive immediately. Usopp stands on the roof, not daring to jump and is pushed by the flying fish. He crashes into Rosward, knocking him unconscious and breaking his glasses. Nami tells Usopp about the imminent arrival of a warship and an admiral. However, Law says that the Marines had surrounded the house even before the auction had commenced. He wonders who the marine's target is as they could not possibly have known that the Celestial Dragons would be beaten beforehand. Robin identifies him and informs Luffy that Law is a pirate. She also introduces Kid to the crew.
Saint Shalria aims her pistol at Camie, wanting to kill the mermaid that the Straw Hats want to save. The crew looks on in horror as they are unable to stop her in time but before Shalria can pull the trigger, she faints and falls off the ladder. Rayleigh and the giant break through the stage and talk about the state of the hall. Rayleigh also reveals his intention of being there, which is to steal money. The guards are alarmed that the 'auction items' have escaped from their cage and even disposed of their neck rings. Hatchan calls out to Rayleigh. Observing the surroundings, Rayleigh comes to a conclusion about the events that occurred and uses his power to knock out the remaining guards in the room, shocking all the pirates. Rayleigh comments that the straw hat is really suitable for a fearless man like Luffy and tells him that he always wanted to meet him.

Word quickly spreads around Sabaody Archipelago that Monkey D. Luffy struck World Noble Saint Charlos at the Human Auctioning House, and the residents fear for their lives, knowing a Marine Admiral is likely coming. Capone Bege and Jewelry Bonney leave, with Bonney swearing she will destroy Luffy in the New World for cutting her fun at Sabaody short. X Drake, Urouge, Scratchmen Apoo, and Basil Hawkins also prep their crews, but want to observe before leaving. At Mary Geoise, Sengoku gets the report of the attack, with a confirmation of up to five of the Supernovas (including Zoro, Eustass Kid, Killer, and Trafalgar Law) also present. Admiral Kizaru, who is present, tells Sengoku that he will take care of it, and will not be long.
Back at the Auction House, Disco reports to Donquixote Doflamingo about the assault and the breakout of the slaves awaiting sale. Doflamingo, however, has decided that slavery is passe, and washes his hands of the Auction House. He says "SMILEs" are the future, and leaves the situation as Disco's problem. He notes that he has been called into action as a Warlord of the Sea to prepare for war against Whitebeard. The Marines have surrounded the Auction House with guns and mortars, with reports that Kizaru is coming with a "special vanguard".
Inside, while Chopper tends to Hatchan's gunshot wound, the Kid, Heart, and Straw Hat Pirates observe as the old man that appeared from backstage tends to Camie. He says he will remove the mermaid's collar, causing some around to freak out since they know what will happen if it explodes. Franky is backstage looking for the keys. The old man, however, sets off the timer on the exploding collar. Right when Franky gets the keys backstage, there is an explosion. Camie is alright, and the collar is gone, leaving those present (except Franky) speechless. As Pappag reunites with Camie, Franky tosses the keys to the other would-be slaves.
The others wonder who the old man is, and how he seemingly knocked out most of those present without so much as a word. Hatchan says the old man used a power called "haki". The old man notes how strong all the pirates present are that withstood it. Eustass Kid reveals who the old man is: "Dark King" Silvers Rayleigh, himself once a very notorious pirate. Rayleigh tells them not to go around saying who he is, inisisting that he is only a coating specialist now. He thanks Luffy for saving his "old friend" Hatchan and says the conversation he suggested having can wait until they escape. The Marines outside demand the surrender of the present Supernovas, marking Trafalgar Law and Kid as accomplices to Luffy's actions. Rayleigh leaves the escape to the rookies present, and Kid, Luffy, and Law exit, the three bickering over how each could clear the current siege themselves.
As those still inside prepare to leave, Camie tells Pappag not to regret going to Sabaody Park, the act that got them in this mess in the first place; Pappag says Luffy told him that as well. Rayleigh tells the others they will meet back at Grove 13 (where Shakky's Rip-Off Bar is) after the escape. The other escaped slaves thank Rayleigh and the pirates for freeing them. Outside, the Marines fire their first volley of cannonballs, getting all three Supernova captains to reveal their Devil Fruit powers. Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Fusen to deflect a cannonball directed at him. Kid uses electromagnetic powers to stop a cannonball and shooting it back at the mortars even harder. Law creates an energy field around himself, slashes off the head of a nearby Marine, and replaces it with a nearby cannonball. However, the Marine is still alive, with Law holding his head.
As the Marines regroup to ensure they can rescue the hostages, Kid tells the other two not to interfere. Luffy ignores him and charges the Marines, using Gomu Gomu no Ami to catch a bunch of shot cannonballs and slingshot them back at the Marines, save one that trickled out and scattered Law and Kid. Kid tells Luffy that he is completely insane, and attracts a bunch of guns and swords with his powers, firing them back on the Marines, forcing a fallback. The Marine Captain on the scene asks if Kizaru has arrived, but he has not yet, though reinforcements prepare to join the battle as the Supernova captains stand tall.

A Marine rescue team enters the Human Auctioning House through the back door with the objective to secure the safety of the Celestial Dragons. Law throws the head that he previously severed back to the marines, shocking them as the head can still talk and feel its body. Law uses his powers to cut up numerous soldiers. Luffy goes into Gear 3. Kid uses his power to attract the Marines' weapons to him. The force is so strong that even weapons inside the house fly to Kid, who uses it to build a massive metallic arm. The captains attack the soldiers as their crews walk out.
The soldiers are commanded to attack the pirates without Devil Fruit abilities. Kid warns Luffy that the next time they meet, no mercy will be shown. Luffy replies that he will be the one who finds One Piece and laughs. Kid stares at him and Killer cuts down the solider attempting to attack Kid. Kid tells Killer that they are going to an ocean whereby people who do not have the guts to say that they will find One Piece will die. The Kid Pirates attack the approaching soldiers. A soldier prepares to cut Law but is defeated by Bepo. The Rosy Life Riders arrive and are ready to set off. The Straw Hat Pirates defend themselves while running towards the riders in order to make their escape.
Law frees Saint Rosward's slave, Jean Bart, and invites him to join his crew. He accepts as long as it means being free from the Celestial Dragons. Law tells Bart to also thank Luffy, who made his freedom possible. The Straw Hats escape on the flying fishes except Franky, who complains about the speed of Motobaro.
Kid gets shot by a beam and he angrily asks why his attacker is on the island. The Heart Pirates make their escape and break the bridge behind them. On the sea, Motobaro is moving at a faster pace due to the modifications by Franky. They pass by Grove 8 and Duval says that it should be the place where Peterman's base is. The Heart Pirates come across the Kid Pirates. Law questions why a Warlord of the Sea is there. Law emerges from the beam attack unscathed. Law comments that he does not want to encounter an admiral on top of all the people he has met, saying that he will make him let them pass, incorrectly identifying his attacker, a Pacifista, as Bartholomew Kuma.

The Heart Pirates are still fighting off the remaining Marines at the auction house, tearing through them to escape. However, they come across the Kid Pirates, most of whom are already wounded due to Kuma. The Shichibukai immediately identifies and attacks Law, but Law manages to dodge the attack. With the Marines starting to close in from behind, Kid and Law, despite their mutual dislike of each other, tell Kuma they are leaving and prepare to face him. In Grove 8, Peterman has been thrashed by the Straw Hats and the Rosy Life Riders for his earlier abduction of Camie. After giving back Camie's backpack, they depart promising to aid them 'till they leave the island. The Straw Hats then head back to Shakky's Bar to treat Hachi's gun wound.
As they do so, they talk with Rayleigh where he reveals his relation to Gol D. Roger, much to their surprise (Hachi apparently knew this too, but did not tell them since they just needed a coater). Rayleigh also reveals how he met Hachi (the Fish-Man had saved Rayleigh's life when he was a kid, and they had remained friends 'till Hachi joined Arlong's crew, then named the Sun Pirates). Sanji then questions how he could still be alive if Roger's crew was captured, to which Rayleigh reveals that Roger actually turned himself in. The government just made it seem that way to show their strength to the public. Rayleigh goes on to tell them the reason why. It was because four years before he was executed, Roger was diagnosed with an incurable disease. His crew, however, had come across Crocus at the entrance of the Grand Line and asked him to join them on Roger's final journey to keep his disease in check.
Finally, after three years, they had managed to conquer the Grand Line. This surprises the Straw Hats, Brook especially, since Crocus did reveal to them he was a pirate doctor for a time. Rayleigh even tells them that the reason Crocus joined was to find a certain pirate crew, which the Straw Hats figure must have been the Rumbar Pirates, bringing tears to Brook's eyes sockets. Rayleigh continues, stating that after they conquered the sea, Roger was dubbed the Pirate King. However, the title was meaningless since he was about to die. But Roger enjoyed it anyway, as he was a man who loved doing everything in grand style. Eventually, Roger disbanded his crew who silently went their separate ways, fates unknown.
One year later, Roger turned himself in to the Marines who decided to make a public execution of him to throw fear into pirates around the world. However, Roger had other plans; his last words to Rayleigh being "I ain't gonna die, partner". On the fateful day of his execution, Roger made his famous speech to the world which, in turn, created the current age of piracy. The Straw Hats are astonished by the story. Rayleigh then tells the group about Shanks and Buggy's apprenticeship aboard Roger's ship, the former of which ran into Rayleigh ten years earlier and told Rayleigh about Luffy, claiming that he had met a kid that said the same things as their captain did.
The story suddenly shifts to a harbor at Grove 27, where a pirate crew is about to set off. Before they can do so, they spot a ship on the horizon that suddenly fires a cannonball with a person actually standing on top of it. The ball lands in the harbor amidst the pirates and the figure, revealed to be Kizaru, awaits orders from his Den Den Mushi.
Back at Shakky's Bar, Rayleigh congratulates Luffy for making it this far into the Grand Line and offers to do the coating job for free, much to the Straw Hats' pleasure. Robin then asks him about the Void Century, telling Rayleigh about a note written by Roger in the Poneglyph in Skypiea. Rayleigh replies that the Roger Pirates did indeed find out the whole history, though he advises her to continue looking for it on her own. Rayleigh says that maybe she could reach different conclusions than those that they reached. Still, he offers to reveal it to her but Robin politely turns him down, agreeing with his earlier advice. Rayleigh also reveals that Roger could not decipher everything like the genius Clover or the other scholars from Ohara. Roger just "could hear the voice of all things". Usopp then asks Robin if she would want to let an opportunity like this get away and starts to question Rayleigh about One Piece. Luffy stops him however, demanding that the mystery of the treasure remain hidden since countless pirates were risking their lives just to search for it. He then threatens to quit being a pirate if any of the crew asked Rayleigh about it, stating "I DON'T WANT TO GO ON A BORING ADVENTURE LIKE THAT!!!".
Usopp apologizes for his actions before Rayleigh asks Luffy if he can really conquer the Grand Line. Luffy replies that he does not really intend to conquer it, only that the person with the most freedom in the ocean would be the Pirate King, which brings a smile to Rayleigh and Shakky's faces. Rayleigh then tells the crew he will have their ship coated in three days which, until then, the crew will have to avoid trouble. Thus, the Straw Hats decide their best bet is to split up and draw attention away from the shop. Shakky gives each member a Vivre Card so they can find their way back to Rayleigh once the coating is finished and Rayleigh decides to move the Thousand Sunny to a safer location. With that, they bid Hachi, Camie, Pappag, and Shakky farewell for the time being and head back into the groves. Luffy suggests to hide in the theme park though the others (save for Chopper and Brook) reject this idea.
However, the Marines are already hot on the heels of the Straw Hat Pirates. At Grove 27, a warship approaches, causing a panic. As it prepares to make landfall, it fires off a round of cannonballs. Riding atop one, Admiral Kizaru descends on the grove in a frightening explosion and terrifies all the nearby pirates of the lawless area in the vicinity by his arrival. Kizaru announces his arrival on the Sabaody Archipelago back to Marine Headquarters through a Black Den Den Mushi on his wrist and requests a response.

In Grove 27, pirates are trying their best to distance themselves from Kizaru whom we're finally introduced to properly. One pirate tries to shoot the admiral but the shot does not even affect him as it phases through the admiral. Kizaru then appears in front of them trying to ask them where he can find someone named Sentomaru but the pirates run away in fear. Kizaru then attacks them with light coming from his foot, which he kicks outwards. This not only passes in between the pirates, it also topples a mangrove in the process much to the disapproval of his troops. Although this terrifies the two pirates, Apoo, who is nearby, does not seem impressed by his power. In another part of the area, a few of the marines have been turned into either old men or children. The culprit of such being Bonney, who laughs at them as she stuffs her face. A few more marines encounter and surround Bege, but he informs them that they've already lost. Kizaru then comes across Hawkins, whose crew wish for him to run. He calmly tells them that he is not destined to die on that day. Back with the Straw Hats, as Usopp tries to convince Luffy not to go back to the amusement park, a figure stands before them prompting Luffy to ask who he is.

Kuma's beam is fired upon the Straw Hats while Monkey D. Luffy dodges. Usopp, Franky, and Brook are in shock that Kuma shoots from his hands. He fires another laser and nearly hits the three, forcing them to hide. Luffy, Roronoa Zoro, and Sanji charge at Kuma and they combine their attacks, knocking down Kuma.
Luffy begins to realize Kuma looks different. Zoro knows that Kuma would have dodged their attacks and that the Kuma they are fighting is actually a fake. "Kuma" rises again.
Meanwhile, Urouge tries a Retribution punch on the "Kuma" he is facing and seems to have an effect. Basil Hawkins judges that fate is inescapable as "Kuma" shoots a laser at Urouge, knocking him down. X Drake realizes that the fake Kuma is using lasers like Kizaru's light beams. Kizaru recognizes Drake and dares him to fight the Pacifista, the cyborg that resembles Bartholomew Kuma.
Drake changes himself into a dinosaur and bites down on the Pacifista with no effect. The laser grazes Drake, forcing him to revert to normal. He also sees how the Pacifista can bleed. Kizaru then reminds Urouge and the others that they need to fight him as well. Hawkins then changes himself into a scarecrow with Demon Face and tries to claw the admiral who warps and blasts a blinding light. Kizaru then shoots lasers through Hawkins and more voodoo dolls fall out.
Kizaru then prepares a final light kick, but then Scratchmen Apoo plays some music on his body to distract the admiral. A loud noise seemingly severs Kizaru's arm and fires an intense sound blast at him. Apoo then runs off, but the admiral reassembles himself. He then chases down Apoo using the Yata Mirror and blasts him with a lightspeed kick. Kizaru then kicks Drake quickly as well and fires a powerful shot at Hawkins. Walking to the wounded Hawkins, Kizaru prepares to execute the pirate when his Den Den Mushi starts ringing.
He answers and hears Sentomaru on the other end, demanding why he had no contact. Sentomaru reminds his "uncle" that the black Den Den Mushi is for intercepting calls only and informs him that the Straw Hats are fleeing.
The fake Kuma Luffy and his party are fighting continues to overwhelm them and withstanding their attacks. The Pacifista then fires an intense blast at the swordsman who is injured greatly. Sanji knows that Zoro has not had time to recover and knows that the Pacifista is not the Bartholomew Kuma they are fighting and wants to leave immediately.

A Pacifista identifies Eustass Kid and Trafalgar Law and they dodge a blast. Law then sets up a Room, but the Pacifista fires a laser, forcing him to dodge. More Marines then arrive, surrounding the pirates. Jean Bart orders Bepo to help him fight the Pacifista and they dodge a light blast. Killer cuts the Pacifista's leg. Kid gathers metal objects, blocks a large blast, and then repels them, stopping the blast. Law then realizes that something is off about "Kuma".
Meanwhile, the Straw Hat Pirates are at a disadvantage, unable to scratch the Pacifista. Roronoa Zoro moves forward and attempts an attack, but then, Tony Tony Chopper bombards a Blizzard Rose onto the Pacifista. Franky then uses a Strong Hammer to deflect a blast and punches with Franky Boxing before being knocked back. Nico Robin then uses a Spider Net to catch her friend. Brook climbs a tree and attempts to drop a Swallow Bond en Avant on the Pacifista with no effect. Usopp then shoots an Atlas Comet, stunning the Pacifista and the groups run off. Suddenly, the Pacifista falls down as explosives seem to have effect. Franky realizes the Pacifista is modified. Nami tries to run but is marked until Robin uses a Shock to pound the cyborg. The navigator then charges and fires a Thunder Lance Tempo, which only makes the cyborg fire wildly. Sanji then uses Diable Jambe and uses a Flambe Shot, sending the Pacifista towards Zoro who uses the Asura Nine Lightning Strikes. Monkey D. Luffy then uses Gear 3 and the Gum-Gum Giant Rifle to give a final blow, causing the Pacifista to shut down.
Luffy shrinks from his usage of Gear 3 yet again and the crew rests. Nami hopes the cyborg will not wake up. Robin insists on taking the Marines one after another. Franky seems to think the Kuma-like cyborg was made with living tissue. Sanji wants to find a place to hide, but then, a voice calls out that they had some nerve. Just then, Sentomaru jumps down with another Kuma-like figure. He then reveals the Kuma-like robots are Pacifistas and will likely report to Vegapunk. Sentomaru introduces himself as the strongest guard in the world who will not give out secrets.
PX-1 then releases a powerful beam from its palms. Zoro wants to fight again but is too injured to do so. Luffy insists on splitting the crew up as there is no chance of victory. Nami flees with Sanji following her along with Franky. The Pacifista then begins to fire on Usopp who latches onto Zoro. Brook also follows, admiring the swordsman's selflessness. Luffy insists on a rendezvous in three days at the Thousand Sunny while Usopp shoots a smokescreen. The Pacifista breaks a bridge and corners Nami's group. Sentomaru faces Luffy and pushes him back easily. He then uses an Ashigara Dokkoi to blast him back, hurting him badly. As Zoro's party flees, Kizaru intercepts and fires a light beam at him. The admiral then stands above the wounded Zoro, holding him at his mercy and declaring he would rest forever and prepares a powerful light stomp.

Eustass Kid and Law's crews are fighting a battle against a Pacifista. The two captains dodge while the Pacifista's lasers hit several marines. Killer rushes at the Pacifista and tries to cut its shoulder, but has to dodge. Bepo attempts an attack, but is punched away and decides to stay down. Kid, mistaking the Pacifista for Kuma, shows his arms covered in metal objects and blocks a laser. He then uses Repel, blasting an arm of metals towards the robot, sending it flying and crashing into the ground. Kid gloats on his victory while Law is dumbstruck.
The Pacifista rises up and prepares to blast Kid, but is struck by Law's sword within one of his Rooms and falls again. Law then points out how his method in taking down an opponent is far superior and learns of more reinforcements arriving. Bepo and Jean Bart hold their own against several marines. Another Pacifista arrives and engages Law and Kid.
Meanwhile Sentomaru has Luffy at his mercy has the Straw Hat captain cries out to Zoro. Zoro is about to be executed by Kizaru's leg glowing with light. Usopp tries to fire a shot, but he misses. All of the sniper's shots go right through Kizaru, and Brook's sword goes straight through, failing to hit the admiral. Kizaru tells that the two are just wasting time as his Glint-Glint Fruit is Logia. Zoro is too weak to move, so Robin uses Vente Fleurs to try to move him out of the way. Kizaru simply warps and kicks the swordsman down. Just as he is about to finally execute Zoro with a light kick blast, Rayleigh boosts in and kicks the light away.
Kizaru steps off of Zoro and dares Rayleigh to fight, while the latter informs that the Pirate Era has just begun. Sentomaru is surprised to see Rayleigh's appearance. Kizaru once chalked up the Dark King's rumors as ghost stories, and learns that he was once a member of the Roger Pirates. An attempt to hunt down Rayleigh would normally require intense preparation. Rayleigh orders Kizaru to just let the Straw Hats be, but the admiral informs he has come under the instructions of the Celestial Dragons.
At Luffy's yelling, Brook and Usopp grab Zoro and prepare to retreat, then the Straw Hat captain orders the crew to split up as they have no chance of victory because of their condition.
Franky decides to buy time using a Coup de Vent, blasting a Pacifista away. As the crew runs off, Rayleigh wishes them luck. Kizaru attempts to chase them using Yata no Kagami, only to be intercepted by Rayleigh's sword. The two continue their fight, with the admiral using the Ama no Murakumo sword.
Angry, Sentomaru orders Pacifista PX-1 to find and terminate Zoro. Spotting this, Sanji races to the rescue.
As Usopp continues to run carrying Zoro, the swordsman insists on staying behind, but the former refuses. Brook spots PX-1 closing in, causing him and Usopp to panic. The skeleton swordsman volunteers to sacrifice himself for Zoro and Usopp and is blasted by the Pacifista's laser. Sanji uses Diable Jambe to knock the cyborg down and feels intense pain in his leg. The Pacifista then begins to blast away at Sanji and Usopp. This horrifies Luffy's party.
As Rayleigh struggles to hold Kizaru back, the admiral tells of how his subordinates can handle things.
Sanji tries to hold PX-1 down, but it continues walking towards Usopp and Zoro. Sentomaru begins chasing after Luffy and uses his Ashigara Dokoi shove to blow back Luffy.
With the Straw Hats at the mercy of PX-1 and Sentomaru respectively, Chopper overdoses on Rumble Balls and becomes his Monster form. The monstrous Chopper wildly tries to smash Sentomaru in leaving PX-1 confused. As the Pacifista turns back to Usopp's party and prepares to fire, Kuma appears and orders it to stand down.
Usopp is frightened and Zoro looks on in horror. Kuma is calm to see Zoro again, and asks where he would like to go if he would take a vacation. Zoro doesn't answer and the Shichibukai slaps him, seemingly vaporizing the swordsman. The crew is in shock and horror over Zoro's disappearance.

Over the Sabaody Archipelago, a bubble pops, signifying Zoro's disappearance. Usopp cries in terror demanding what Kuma had done to Zoro. Luffy cries in horror, then he and Robin dodge a slap by Monster Chopper. Robin tries to put the reindeer under control, while Luffy cries out to Zoro. Sentomaru dodges Chopper's ferocious smash and demands to know what he is doing here.
Meanwhile, Rayleigh and Kizaru continue their duel. The latter knows that the Shichibukai are supposed to report to Marine Headquarters, with the former currently occupied with his fight. Franky sees that Kuma had erased Zoro as Nami saw it back on Thriller Bark. The Straw Hat cyborg hopes that Zoro still lives. Luffy demands to know what happened to Zoro, but Sentomaru doesn't answer as he is the World's Most Guarded man. He does however admit that when Kuma slaps someone with his paw pads, they will be flying for three days and nights, but it is just a rumor even to him. Only Kuma would know where his victims end up, but Zoro is no longer at the Sabaody Archipelago. Sanji realizes that Kuma has appeared before the Straw Hats yet again. As Usopp tries to shoot Kuma, a Pacifista also takes aim, but the Shichibukai swats the cyborg away with his paw pad. Sentomaru begins to admonish the Shichibukai for attacking a fellow ally.
Luffy orders a full retreat for his crew, hoping to figure out a way to turn the tide. Nami begins to run with Franky, while Usopp hopes to carry Sanji to safety. Brook vows to sacrifice himself even though he is already dead, but Kuma swats him away in milliseconds. Sanji begins to fume with rage and orders Usopp to leave. He attempts to make a stand, but the Shichibukai stops his kick. Usopp tries to defend himself but like Zoro and Brook, Kuma swats him off the island. Sanji attempts to make a last stand, but is also swatted away. As Rayleigh and Kizaru continue to fight, the former begins to know his limitations. Kuma then appears before Rayleigh and tells him to trust the Shichibukai. As Kuma's plans have nothing to do with the Marines, Luffy goes into Second Gear. However, Kuma then warps to Franky and Nami's location and withstands the cyborg's Strong Right. Luffy attempts to use a Gomu Gomu no Jet Pistol, but it is deflected. Franky is in shock over his captain's situation, just as Kuma swats him with his paw pad. Nami cries in despair for Luffy to help and save her and is swatted off the island by Kuma's paw pad.
Luffy gets enraged after Nami's disappearance and tries once again to hit Kuma, but misses. Monster Chopper then sees Kuma and attempts a heroic sacrifice, but like the rest of the crew, he is swatted off the island by Kuma's paw. The Straw Hat captain begins to despair and tries to reach out to Robin, only to lose her to Kuma's paw pad slap. Luffy begins to meltdown in sadness over his uselessness and his failure to save his crew. He also thinks of the times he spent with his crew. Kizaru demands an explanation from Kuma about his actions. The Shichibukai tells Luffy they will never meet one-another again. He bids him farewell and finally swats him with his paw pad. With this, the Straw Hats were finally defeated.

Usopp visits The Pinwheel to tell Onami, Sanji, Luffy and Chopper about the upcoming Mikoshi (portable shrine) race, which takes place every 100 years and has the grand prize of a sacred treasure that will supposedly grant any wish and 1,000,000. Usopp also meets Mao, a new employee hired by Onami.
In order to enter as the Pinwheel Eatery team, Luffy, Usopp Onami and Chopper visit Franky, the greatest builder in Grand Jipangu, and are introduced when Franky's clockwork drying mechanism accidentally flings his loincloth into Onami's face. Chopper describes the other participants in the race: The Legendary Flying Fish Riders, Rolling Express, and the Thriller Company. As Chopper says this, the Thriller Company (Hogback, Absalom, Perona, Kumashi and Cindry) arrive to tell them that it is pointless to enter the race. Hogback laughs at the group until being told that the rest of the Thriller Company has already left and he follows after them. Franky announces that he will build them a Mikoshi good enough to beat the Thriller Company.
That night, The Legendary Flying Fish Riders are interrupted while practicing by a group of zombies working for the Thriller Company. Perona appears and uses negative hollows to demotivate the team. In his self-loathing the Fish Riders' leader Duval smashes their Mikoshi. Perona comments that this is "another one down" as Robin watches this happen from a distance.
The next morning Usopp accidentally fishes Brook out of a river while fishing and takes him to The Pinwheel. Brook explains that he can't remember anything other than his name and finds a flute stored inside his skull. Brook spends time with Luffy, Usopp and the other villagers.
The night before the race, the Thriller Company has taken out all the rival teams except the Rolling Express and Pinwheel Eatery teams. Mao visits Franky's workshop while the Thriller company attack the Rolling Express Mikoshi, using Absalom's powers to make themselves invisible. Luffy, Usopp, and Brook happen to be nearby and notice what appears to be the Mikoshi floating away and the Rolling Express team following it. Brook helps Luffy attack the zombies helping the Thriller Company but fails to stop the Mikoshi from being destroyed. Sanji and Onami arrive and realize that the Franky workshop will be the next target.
They find Mao being attacked by Zombies, which Luffy dispatches with a Gomu-Gumo No Bazooka. At Franky's workshop, they find their Mikoshi destroyed and Franky attacked. Brook then remembers who he is: a former member of the Thriller Company who was attacked by his team and abandoned in the river. Brook tells the other of his past and leaves them.

Brook finds and attacks Kumashi and some zombies from the Thriller Company before heading toward the Thriller Company's headquarters, waking up Zoro as he walks past him. At Franky's workshop, Franky is being treated by Chopper as Robin arrives with information about where Brook has gone. Robin explains that Brook was indeed a member of the Thriller Company, but left due to not agreeing with their methods and likely feels responsible for the destroyed mikoshis.
Luffy heads after Brook to find him being tortured by the Thriller Company as Zoro arrives to complain about the noise. Luffy frees Brook and fends off the Thriller Company alongside Zoro until Robin aids their escape with a smoke bomb. Brook arrives at Franky's workshop to find everyone else allied with the Pinwheel eatery team rebuilding their mikoshi. The Legendary Flying Fish Riders and Rolling Express arrive and help the Pinwheel eatery by supplying them with materials from their damaged mikoshis. Brook is relieved when the others insist that they are still friends and that he will be a shrine bearer. Zoro also becomes part of the team when he is caught stealing food.
On the morning of the race, the Thriller Company arrive with their mikoshi shaped like Oars expecting to be the only contestants, and are shocked to see the Pinwheel eatery team arrive with a mikoshi shaped like the Thousand Sunny. Onami and Mao borrow a flying fish to help their teammates. The Thriller Company zombies become too tired to carry the mikoshi, so Hogback activates the mikoshi's motorized hidden wheels. Franky does the same thing with his mikoshi, fueling it with cola first. The Thriller Company attacks the Pinwheel Eatery with a cannon, knocking them into the nearby river, but the mikoshi is able to travel in water and Omani navigates the team back to the race route.
Perona attacks the Pinwheel eatery using some Brick Bats, but Franky releases the mikoshi's Mini Merry, allowing Zoro and Sanji to travel ahead and destroy them. Using another cola bottle, the Pinwheel Eatery mikoshi travels back onto the race route ahead of the Thriller Company. They retaliate by releasing Tararan from under the mikoshi to jump ahead of the Pinwheel Eatery team and trap them in a sticky net. Franky can't escape because they are out of cola, so Onami and Mao take some from a nearby stand, allowing Franky to use the Gaon Cannon to destroy the Thriller Company's mikoshi. The Thriller Company discover that Cindry has abandoned them and is in the audience, and are punched into the sky by Luffy.
Although they have won, Igaram refuses to give Onami the prize money as they need to use it to repair the collateral damage the racers caused to the town. The sacred treasure turns out to be golden panties which will grant the wish of a beautiful woman when worn. Brook asks Mao to wear them and she punches him in response, knocking him onto the floor and causing him to lose his memory again.

On Sabaody, Duval locates the Thousand Sunny and tells the Rosy Life Riders to guard it until the coating craftsman arrives. Shalria demands that the marines find the Straw Hats and bring them to her so that she can enslave and torture them as revenge for punching Charlos. Hachi, Camie and Pappag have taken refuge at Shakky's Rip-off Bar, where Shakky explains that the Straw Hats will need to be careful in the future because the tide of the times is changing. Meanwhile, Luffy is being transported through the sky by Kuma's abilities; remembering the rumor that Sentomaru told him, that Kuma can send people flying for three days and nights, Luffy realizes that the rest of his crew are probability flying like he is and decides to sleep it out.
Luffy eventually lands in a forest and decides to follow Rayleigh's vivre card to reunite with the rest of the crew, but is immediately chased by a wild boar attempting to eat him. Arriving at a rock blocking his path and realizing how hungry he is, Luffy decides to cook and eat the boar, reminding him of his childhood with his grandfather Garp. Wandering around, Luffy find some mushrooms to eat which make cause him to feel inexplicably happy. Luffy realizes that the nearby mushrooms generate different emotions from him and he begins gorging on them.
Some time later, Marguerite, Sweet Pea and Aphelandra investigate the smoke from the fire and find Luffy unconscious with mushrooms growing from his body. Marguerite identifies the mushrooms as parasitic and assumes that Luffy is a girl from the village that she doesn't recognize.
They take Luffy to the village to treat him with the help of many of the other villagers, which under Belladonna's instructions involves pulling the mushrooms off Luffy's body and burning the remaining stems. Seeing Luffy's other injuries, they realize that Luffy is in worse condition than they thought and decide to give him a bath. During this, Sweet Pea notices another "mushroom" between Luffy's legs, which they cannot pull out. Nyon arrives and they explain the situation to her. Nyon takes a look at Luffy realizes that he is a man, shocking everyone there.
The narrator explains that Luffy has landed on Amazon Lily, an island inhabited by the Kuja tribe of female warriors where men face certain death if they set foot.

The episode begins with an explanation of what Amazon Lily is like. It explains that only women live here and that sometimes the women who leave the island bear a child, however only daughters are born. It also explains that there is a hole at the top of the island with a village in it. The women there are described as hard working and hearty, trained as warriors since childhood, yet graceful. There is then a shot of a bunch of women looking inside the prison cell Luffy has been brought to. When Luffy wakes up, he remembers what happened and starts asking the women where he is. He realizes his straw hat is missing and seeing a woman outside the jail cell wearing it, he stretches his arm to take it back. This surprises all the women and they back off. Luffy asks them where his clothes are and in return they ask him what "the thing between the two sacs between his legs" is, and Luffy replies "my family jewels", which fascinates all the girls, and they ask him to take it off and show them. He obviously refuses and so he is given clothes (new ones as his old were tattered) back. The new clothes, however, have frills and flowers on them, which angers Luffy and he screams. His yell is a signal for the women to take battle position, and they all aim at Luffy ready to shoot. Luffy finds out that they had saved his life and so apologizes and thanks them, asking them not to shoot. However they do shoot, and Luffy busts through the roof and starts running away. He begins to steal food during the chase, which causes almost the whole village to be after him. Somewhere in the chase he realizes he needs his Vivre Card, so he takes Marguerite (the girl who made him clothes) with him and down to the forest, where he asks her to give it back to him. He explains what the card does and why he needs it to her, and asks her if there is any way he can repay her. She asks for his family jewels, and again Luffy becomes horrified and refuses. Marguerite asks Luffy what kind of friends he has, and Luffy explains he is a pirate. Marguerite says that her kingdom also has pirates, and their captain is the Snake Princess, Boa Hancock. The episode ends with the women on the island realizing that Hancock is on her way back, and they plan to quickly destroy Luffy and get Marguerite back before she arrives.

On Amazon Lily, Luffy sets himself back into shape and reminds Marguerite he needs to meet up with his crew. She thinks of how men look and when Luffy asks for help taking the womanly vest off, Marguerite is confused, but nonetheless removes it. As Luffy prepares to leave, he hopes his crew are still alive and that's all that matters. He also thinks of the horror that Kuma put him through and prepares to get stronger. He almost hand-walks off the island, but then asks for a ship. Marguerite reminds him the island is on a Calm Belt. As such, sailors will not make it to the island. Her leader's flagship, the Yuda is charioted by two large snakes. Luffy insists on making a raft to make it to Sabaody Archipelago, but it breaks beneath his weight. This prompts Marguerite to get him out of the water. She begins to think that men will sink like rocks. Angered, Marguerite worries she'll become attached to Luffy and fires some arrows, which the Straw Hat captain dodges.  He realizes the arrows can be powerful enough to pierce rock. Marguerite points out the arrows are imbued with Haki. Just then, Kikyo and the others give chase. Sweet Pea informs Marguerite that the leader will be coming soon. Meanwhile, a group of Kuja pirates argue with some marines over a dead sea king. The agreement between the Kuja and the World Government forbids the Marines from going within 3 kilometers of the island. Momonga tells of how he encountered the Sea King and how he was impatient with meeting the woman pirate. The marines bullets were anemic against the Sea King, but then Momonga breached the monster's mouth and killed it from the inside out with an x-shaped opening. 
Momonga then grows more impatient and demands Boa Hancock's presence. Some of the pirates tell him to leave. Momonga then points out that Hancock is to attend the public execution of Portgas D. Ace and will not take no for an answer. If rejected, Hancock will be stripped of her title as Shichibukai, leaving the Kuja as ordinary pirates. Suddenly, footsteps are heard within the Yuda. Boa Hancock comes out to the deck complaining about a kitten blocking her way. One of the Kuja takes responsibility for her crime. Momonga then advises the guard be kept up as Hancock can be very frightening and beautiful. Meanwhile, Luffy continues fleeing from the Kuja warriors wishing Nami were with him. Desperate, Luffy climbs a tree and hops through the jungle. Kikyo then becomes determined to kill Luffy before Hancock arrives. The young Straw Hat captain almost climbs a rock wall, but is knocked into the jungle by an arrow. Hancock and her sisters stand before Momonga,, but refuse to go to war with Momonga, wanting to retain her status. She also demands the cargo from Momonga's ship. The vice-admiral tries to defy her, but the marines begin to comply. With the execution one week away at Marineford, Whitebeard will try to rescue Ace. The entire Marine Headquarters would need every moment to prepare.
The Kuja leader still refuses to give in and one of the marines had an accident, being turned into stone. The marines learned that one of their ships had an entire crew turned to stone with loving looks on their faces. Sandersonia and Marigold point out how their sister gets her way. No matter what anyone does, Hancock says she is beautiful. The Kuja and Marines cheer, then Hancock fires a Love Love Mellow, shooting energetic hearts at the aroused Marines, turning them into statues. Momonga is horrified and angered with a knife in his hand. He also says one is not zero. The Kuja enjoy their loot and Hancock sets course for Amazon Lily. Determined, Momonga then orders that if she does not come back in two days, she will be stripped of her title. Hancock then dares him to do what he likes.

The Yuda arrives at Amazon Lily and the Kuja celebrate the Snake Princess's return. One of the younger girls hopes to join the Kuja when she grows. The Gorgon Sisters lead their troupe off the ship. Sandersonia and Marigold are surprised that the Kuja missed their leader for so long.
As a Monkey Carriage is prepared, Hancock believes everything on the island is sign. The Kuja look over their haul while Ran's gift is heading for the castle. She meets with Granny Nyon and had procured a newspaper from a government ship.
At the castle, Hancock walks through pleased to be home. She receives a ring, but then throws it away thinking it will spoil her image. Enishida also presents a statue of her master. She feels the statue, but shatters it as it was made from mud and clay. Hancock also learns the defenders were absent, because they were chasing a wild beast racing through the jungle.
Luffy flies through the jungle and Kikyo fires another arrow at him. Sweet Pea thinks they got him, but the pirate was snagged away by a fish.
Hancock sits on her makeshift snake throne and asks for sake. Nyon walks in and demands an audience but forgot "please". Nyon tells of how a central government ship had arrived and want her presence lest she loses her title. However, Hancock is afraid. Without her title, Amazon Lily will be at the mercy of other pirates and the government.
While Nyon is old, she shows Hancock a crystal ball thinking of her future. The Snake Princess then sees her fortune; She is to leave immediately. Angered, Hancock has Nyon thrown out as her reign as Gloriosa was scuppered years ago. At first, Hancock seems to agree with the Government terms, but doesn't and tosses Nyon out the window. She then demands the glass be cleared out.
Nyon lands in a courtyard, but is shown to still be a feisty Kuja. Hancock then announces she needs to bathe. This also interrupts the Kuja's daily lifestyle. As Hancock is bathing, no one is to go inside the castle. One of the Kuja, Ran meets with the eight year old girl and tells of the Gorgon Sister' secret.
Hancock strips naked while Ran tells her story. The Gorgon was a horrifying monster. If anyone gazed on it, they would become statues. Just then, Hancock and her sisters killed the monster. As it died, the monster's death cursed the sisters with monstrous eyes that will petrify and kill anyone who looks upon them. That's why ordinary people must not dare glare at them leaving the castle under heavy guard.
Hancock bathes while the fish carries Luffy around and tosses him further into the jungle. He spots a group of snakes and screams, attracting the Kuja warriors to his location. He runs up the rock wall, knocking the snakes off him. Luffy makes it back to town and ponders his next move.
He learns the Kuja have a pirate ship and hopes to borrow it. Without Nami, he hopes to ask for a ride in their ship back to Sabaody. He decides to ask someone in a large building thinking of important people. As the Kuja defenders race back, Luffy breaks part of the castle, and lands in bathwater. As it is shallow, Luffy seems safe, but then sees Hancock, naked in the bath as well. He spots something on her back, with the Snake Princess angered.

Sandersonia and Marigold head for Hancock's bath and see that Luffy is on the island. Marigold covers Hancock now that the secret was revealed. They plan to kill him so their secret is safe. Hancock then shoots a Love Love Mellow, making Luffy think of Foxy's Slow Slow Beams. He is not affected and doesn't become a statue. The Gorgon Sisters are surprised that the love beam is ineffective and how Luffy managed to survive for so long.
Hancock shoots a Pistol Kiss bullet, hitting Luffy. Hancock then orders the Kuja to capture Luffy for judgement. Ran pursues Luffy, demanding that he do what she orders. The Straw Hat captain wonders if Hancock can help get him off the island. He escapes with a Gum-Gum Rocket and flies over the town wall. The Kuja pirates hear the word and set out to capture him. Nyon worries that the island's future is at stake.
Aphelandra spots Luffy on a rooftop and they fire on him. Kikyo becomes desperate to kill him as he continues to dodge them. He also stops to get some meat, catching Nyon's attention. She stops Luffy from running and hopes for a look at his face. The Kuja warriors succeed in capturing Luffy. Nyon becomes intrigued.
At the execution grounds, Luffy is tied up by some snakes. Marguerite worries he'll be executed regardless of interrogation. Hancock asks why Luffy was on her island. He explains he was sent here by Kuma and also wants a ship to leave the island. The Kuja think he's talking nonsense. Hancock plans to expedite his departure by killing him, but Marguerite knows Luffy is not lying. She hopes Hancock will hear her out.
As Luffy was telling the truth, Marguerite believes Luffy will not cause the land physical harm. However, Hancock decides on capital punishment for Luffy. Marguerite accepts she allowed Luffy access to the city, while Sweet Pea and Aphelandra try to talk their master down. When she gets up, Hancock walks to the center and decides to let her subject off the hook.
Marguerite hopes Hancock will forgive her crime and stands up. But, Hancock fires a Love Love Mellow, turning Aphelandra, Sweet Pea and Marguerite into statues and horrifying Luffy. The young pirate becomes angry with Hancock, believing only he is to blame for their actions, and demands the three girls be returned to normal.
Hancock orders Bacura the panther be released and tells Luffy to die a proud warrior. Bacura had been the executioner for years. Even as the panther is about to attack him, Luffy again demands the restoration of the girls. He punches Bacura out, sending him flying into the crowd. Luffy furiously turns to face the Gorgon Sisters, saying turning their own friends to stone is not funny. Hancock claims she will be forgiven because she's beautiful, getting an ovation from her Kuja crowd, but then is frightened by Luffy's defiance. She orders Sandersonia and Marigold to personally execute Luffy. The two sisters then transform into large snakes.

Luffy is challenged to battle Boa Marigold and Boa Sandersonia in the Amazon Lily arena with the spectators calling for Luffy to be executed. The sisters in their snake forms are ready to fight Luffy. Boa Marigold in the Salamander form and Boa Sandersonia in the Forked Snake Form. The people believe the sisters to have been cursed while defeating the Gorgon and has taken its powers. Luffy, however, realized that they have the Devil Fruit powers. Luffy asked for a time-out and used that to remove the statues of Sweet Pea, Marguerite, and Aphelandra from the battle arena. He apologized to the statues of the three women indicating that they were put in that situation because they saved his life. He commented that Chopper may have been able to find a solution just as when he and Robin were frozen by Aokiji's ice. After that, Luffy came into the arena and asked the sisters that all he had to do was beat them up, which surprised everyone present there.
The spectators laughed at Luffy's question saying it was impossible for him to defeat Boa Marigold and Boa Sandersonia. Boa Marigold warned him regarding the spikes between the arena and the spectators. Boa Hancock then gave the order for Luffy to be executed for the crime he committed by intruding on the Island of Women and for disrespecting her. Boa Marigold began attacking Luffy and realized that he was not so bad at fighting. She also attacked him with her deadly poison which he dodged several times. Luffy tried attack Boa Marigold with Gomu Gomu no Stamp and realized that it hurt him to attack. Boa Sandersonia caught Luffy using her tail and Luffy wondered why his attacks hurt even when he fought against Sentomaru, it was the same feeling he got.
Boa Sandersonia acknowledged Luffy as a Paramecia Devil Fruit user. Luffy also acknowledged that they were Devil Fruit users and asked why they lied about being cursed. She told him it was a secret that cannot be told to anyone even if the person is about to die. She stated that he is unable to use Haki, saying that people not from their island are unfamiliar with it. She predicted Luffy's attack and dodged, then followed by attacking him using the Snake Slam. Luffy attacked with Gomu Gomu no Gatling Gun, which Boa Sandersonia evaded using the Snake Dance. Boa Marigold then attacked him using the Snake Stick. Both sisters attacked him and Luffy fell backwards more trying not to hit the statues, and towards into the spikes.
Luffy missed falling into the spikes by anchoring his hands and legs. Boa Hancock commented that Luffy was all talk and a silly man, in which Luffy retorted by telling her to shut it and called her an idiot. The crowd got very angry at Luffy's insult of Hancock and called for his immediate execution. Hancock then ordered her sisters to kill Luffy right away. Sandersonia then picked up Marguerite's statue and threatened to break it saying, because she saved Luffy's life as he had stated. Marigold indicated to Luffy that the ordeal is a public execution and not a fight as he thinks it is. Sandersonia prepared to execute Marguerite even with Luffy's yelling for her to stop. As she counted down to smash the statue, Luffy yelled out "I told you to stop, dammit" causing him to unleash his Haoshoku Haki. This surprised many in the crowd who could withstand it and rendered others unconscious.
Kikyo, and the Boa sisters were amazed as they realized what type of power Luffy had just unleashed. Luffy, unknowing about his ability, ran to Marguerite whose statue is on the floor. He was happy the statue had no scratch and thanked Marigold and Sandersonia for listening to him after all. Boa Hancock was surprised/upset that Luffy has the ability of the Haoshoku Haki just like she does, and wondered who Luffy really was. Wondering why everyone was getting so noisy and obstreperous, Luffy acknowledged to the sisters that they were strong and announced for the fight to continue.

As Luffy activates Gear 2 the crowd is surprised by his body, but claims he could never defeat Sandersonia and Marigold. However, as Sonia uses her eight branches technique, Luffy easily dodges all of them causing Sandersonia to wonder how he was able to dodge all of her moves despite using Haki and realizes he was able to dodge them because he was too fast that she herself was not able to keep up. Luffy wraps his arm around her neck and throws her to the ground, shocking everyone. Marigold swings her weapon at him and he dodges and prepares to strike her and she defends herself stating it will not work. Luffy uses Jet Bazooka, destroying her weapon and sending her flying back. The whole crowd is shocked that Luffy is now winning and Hancock becomes irritated at Luffy and asks her sisters what the two of them are doing. Her sisters apologize and say they will end things now.
Sandersonia uses her eight branches technique again while Marigold uses a snake technique that lights her hair on fire while the crowd marvels at them using their strongest techniques. Luffy bends backwards as the sisters prepare to finish him and Luffy unleashes a Jet Gatling on them, shocking the whole crowd that he put out their techniques and kicks them in the stomachs sending them crashing at each other and Sandersonia's hair on fire from Marigold's technique. Marigold apologizes and tries to push herself away only to see their tails tied together while Luffy was doing the victory sign. Sandersonia tries to put herself out and almost falls out of the ring and her clothes start to burn, causing Hancock to worry and notices her back is exposed. Luffy jumps on her and the crowd thinks he was trying to finish her off and that he was just so cruel. As Sandersonia yells at him to get off, he tells her not to move and so no one will see her back causing Marigold and Hancock to be shocked that he was actually helping them resulting Hancock to think back about her telling Luffy that what was on their back is something they would rather die than let others see it. Sandersonia realizes he was helping her and Hancock orders everyone to leave the arena. Everyone leaves and realizes Luffy was helping Sonia and the arena becomes empty as Mary is amazed that a man would actually help them and Sandersonia asks Luffy why he was helping them as they are enemies and were trying to kill each other. Luffy says that the thing on their back has nothing to do with their match while Nyon comments on Luffy's kindness and how Hancock and her sisters have been saved by the man that they just tried to kill. Hancock, after seeing Luffy's true self, is seen crying to herself.

At the arena, Boa Sandersonia and Boa Marigold apologize to Hancock for losing, but Hancock says it's fine and Luffy looks over at Marguerite's body and is relieved to see she's fine. As Luffy is done checking her, he looks up and asks Hancock if she's gonna fight him now, but Hancock says she won't and is done with all the fighting and just wants to end things now. When Luffy asks her to change the others back to normal and if she has the power to change them back, she confirms she does, but says she gives Luffy two options: he can have a ship and be transported back to Sabaody or return the others back to normal and find himself another way to get off the island himself. The three sisters look down on him and Hancock thinks to herself that now he will have no choice but to reveal his true nature. However, Luffy gets on his knees in gratitude and asks her to turn them all back to normal without hesitation leaving Hancock speechless, and prompting Nyon to comment how amazing it is that someone with willpower like Luffy's would bow their head for the sake of the ones who saved his life.
Afterwards, Marguerite and her friends are returned to normal and the others are happy that they are all alright. When they ask what happened to Luffy the other Kuja's inform them that he was invited to the palace, shocking everyone. At the palace, Sonia expresses her gratitude to Luffy for covering her back and apologizes for before and Luffy says it's alright since she said she's sorry and Marigold states if anyone saw what was really on their back they'd have to leave the country. While Luffy wonders what they mean, Hancock says he can come in behind the curtains and as he does, he thinks it's food only to be disappointed and confused as to why Hancock is naked. Hancock remarks how his rudeness is astonishing, but forgets that and tells him to look at what he saw on her back again and tell her where he saw it before. The mark on her back is revealed as a hoof mark and as Luffy looks at it trying to remember it, Hancock tells him to hurry as this is not something she likes showing to others. Luffy states he mistook it for the mark on Hatchi's forehead from before. At that moment, Nyon comes in and tells Hancock she should trust him due to his large heart, despite her hesitation. Nyon reads from the newspaper and reveals Luffy's assault on a World Noble, his escape from the fighters from Central and how he then managed to reach the island in two days, leaving the sisters speechless. Marigold asks Luffy who he is and Luffy retorts saying that he's been trying to tell them that he has no idea how he got there and also mentions that he doesn't regret what he did to the noble because of the way he harmed Luffy's friends. Hancock, overwhelmed with what she heard from Luffy begins to tear up relieved that there are still people in the world that will fight against the World Government and stand up for others, just like "him". When Luffy asks who she's talking about, Hancock, knowing she can trust him, says that she will tell him everything and that her mark is the mark of the World Nobles. She and her sisters were slaves.
When she was twelve, she and her sisters were kidnapped when they were on the Kuja's ship as beginner pirates and sold to the Celestial Dragons. The first man she ever saw was the one who painfully branded the mark on her back and is the reason she hates men. Sonia starts screaming from the painful memories and Luffy says that they don't have to talk about it if they don't want to. Hancock continues her story about how she and her sisters were slaves for four years and suffered the worst terrors imaginable, until one day, a fish-man named Fisher Tiger climbed the Red Line and attacked Mary Geoise. Even though he hated humans, he did not discriminate and set every single one of the slaves free and burnt Mary Geoise down. Hancock stated they owe him a debt they can never repay. Hancock says the fish-men slaves he freed decided to join him and he covered their slave symbols with the sun mark and explains that was probably that mark Hatchi has on his forehead. When Luffy asks if Hatchi was a slave, Sonia says that's not the case as everyone on the crew had the sun mark to make it impossible to tell the former slaves apart from the other fish-men. Nyon states that after Tiger's death the remaining Sun Pirate members scattered and formed separate pirate crews. Hancock then reveals how she and her sisters were forcibly fed their Devil Fruits and how she lies and acts the way she does because she believes they would bring shame on their people and themselves. She begins crying uncontrollably and states she would rather lie to protect their honor, and to make their painful memories easier to deal with. Luffy can only watch with a stern and angry look after discovering the World Nobles cruelty towards Hancock.
Nyon starts mocking Hancock and is amused that the snake princess would be this honest about her feelings and that she had thought her heart had become as cold as ice, but Hancock tells her to be quiet and remember her place as an outcast. Nyon retorts that she should be more grateful that Nyon had been out at sea instead of on Amazon Lily because all three of them would have had nowhere to go and she would never have found them if she wasn't away from her home. Hancock says that it is just a small debt she's talking about, angering Nyon who starts yelling that she raised her and her sisters as if they were her own daughters causing Sonia and Marigold to get embarrassed and try to calm her down. Hancock then turns away from Luffy and nervously asks if he scorns her, knowing of her past as a slave, but Luffy says the only ones he hates are the Celestial Dragons and not her. Hancock, while blushing, smiles, saying she likes Luffy, and offers him the use of her ship, making Luffy very happy.

After telling Luffy all about her past, Hancock agrees to give him a ride to Sabaody Archipelago with her Yuda-towed ship. She also invites Luffy to their banquet tonight and to rest inside. While Luffy expresses how excited he is to see his friends again, Hancock looks back with a confused look as she realizes she's still blushing. Nyon comments to herself how amazed she is that Hancock is trusting Luffy so much and Hancock places her hand on her forehead seemingly uncertain what she's feeling. At the banquet, Luffy eats everything around him, and the girls seem suspicious. The Kuja Pirates misunderstand their Snake Princess's actions and prepare to attack Luffy. But before they can, Luffy, bored, starts to sing Bink's sake and dances with a pan and spoon. It makes everyone laugh, and the party begins. But the girls, who have never seen a man before, interrogate Luffy and touch him as someone places a price to touch him, causing Luffy to yell that he's not for display. Several more girls are interested in Luffy and want to touch him and he runs away despite them seemingly being attracted by his rubber body. He escapes with Marguerite to Elder Nyon's house. While Hancock is alone on a balcony, Sonia and Mary look out and wonder what's on her mind since she hasn't eaten anything and wonder if everything with Luffy has her worried or the fact the call to war has her worried. Hancock picks up a glass and recalls how Luffy is set to leave for tomorrow and realizes she's crying for some reason and starts crying more and drops her glass and falls to the floor in pain and breathing heavily. Her sisters are shocked and go over to help.
At her house Luffy discovers that Hancock is a Shichibukai and admits his surprise. Nyon states she became Shichibukai when Hancock was eighteen, when she became the empress of the Kuja and quickly gained a notorious reputation despite her young age, catching the attention of the Marines and even the World Government, who were frightened of her potential, as she had earned a large bounty after only one campaign. Hancock later opted to join the Shichibukai in order to protect her fellow Kuja, by forming a treaty to protect their homeland from the government, preventing them from entering there. Nyon then reads on the paper about the war between the Whitebeard Pirates and the Marines and surprising Luffy further with Nyon commenting on his lack of knowledge and then reads off the prisoner on deathrow, his brother Ace is about to be taken to his execution. Luffy then is horrified by reading this as he hears that Blackbeard was the one who put Ace in prison and cuts Nyon off revealing he's his brother, shocking Nyon. Luffy asks if Ace is really going to be executed and Nyon says he will and wonders when. She says it's in five days and it will take a week to get back to Sabaody and Luffy says it will be too late by the time he reunites with his crew. He asks for another faster way and Nyon tells him that he's being held at Impel Down, the maximum security prison and decides to go rescue Ace before reuniting with his crew. He says sorry to his comrades after deciding to rescue Ace at Impel Down, and asks Elder Nyon how he can rescue Ace. Elder Nyon tells him that there's only one way to make it to his brother in time, by asking Hancock to accept the call of the Marines as a Marine battle ship can make it in time and Luffy goes to ask her with Nyon. As Luffy and Nyon arrive to ask her, one of her subjects arrives and reveals that Hancock has contracted a fatal illness. Hancock has caught an unknown disease and is in great pain for some reason.

As Luffy and Nyon arrive to ask her, one of her subjects arrives and reveals that Hancock has contracted a fatal illness. Hancock has caught an unknown disease and feels in great pain for some reason. As Nyon deduces her illness, she says she knows the illness and when Hancock asks if she will die, Nyon says she will, much to Sandersonia's and Marigold's anger telling her not to joke and she says she isn't. She tells Hancock her illness is what killed her previous predecessors and that Luffy is here to see her and surprisingly, Hancock says she'll see him, much to everyone's shock that she stood up, especially Nyon who wonders if Luffy really was able to change Hancock so much. On the balcony, Luffy sees her and asks if she's alright and she says no illness will get to her. Luffy tells her about his brother and his desire to save him and begs her to take him to Impel Down and answer the call to war. Sonia and Mary yell in anger claiming Luffy is using her and forcing her to relive her horrors as a slave to go to such a place and that this is why they hate men and refuse to let him use their sister like this. However, despite all this, Hancock, while blushing heavily, says she will happily answer the call and go wherever Luffy wishes, to which Luffy thanks her and now can make it to Ace on time. Her family is shocked by such a thing and her sisters asks what is happening and Nyon says that her sickness is called "Love Sickness" and that Hancock has fallen in love with Luffy and all the previous empresses died from being away from their loved ones. As Luffy celebrates to himself being able to make it to Ace, Hancock watches happily and is slightly giggling and blushing at Luffy's antics.
At the palace with Nyon, Hancock is confused with herself and she doesn't want to disappoint Luffy's request and she herself just said she'd do it without thinking and doesn't feel bad about it and feels happy. Nyon explains what she's feeling towards Luffy is love as all the previous empresses fell in love with a man but due to their statuses as empresses, they had to stay on the island and the pain from not being with their loved ones caused them to die from being away from their desired ones. However, Hancock will survive if she goes with Luffy meaning she must leave the island.
Outside, Luffy says his goodbyes to the Kujas and promises to have his crew visit them someday and as Hancock comes, she kicks away some animals and tells a Kuja to be more careful. When Luffy sees her and wishes to hurry, she looks away blushing thinking she can't look at him in the eyes and as someone tells him to call her Snake Princess, Hancock bashfully asks him to call her Hancock, wowing the Kuja's by her smile and Luffy accidentally calls her "Hammock" and she corrects him. Hancock leaves the country in the hands of her sisters and Luffy and Hancock set off for Impel Down. Hancock boards Vice Admiral Momonga's ship, hiding Luffy with her. Hancock unfreezes the Marines that were frozen in stone and they begin their way to Headquarters.
A Marine brings news to Sengoku, telling him that Hancock was heading towards the headquarters. Sengoku is apparently pleased, stating that Hancock was the sixth of the seven Shichibukai. The only one that is not willing to join the war against Whitebeard is Jinbe. Sengoku had Jinbe sent down to Impel Down, to 'cool his head', as it appears that Jinbe had come and caused a ruckus.
Another Marine enters, stating that Admiral Kizaru had captured 500 pirates from Sabaody Archipelago. Sengoku says not to annoy him unless it is about Whitebeard and that is when another Marine enters, saying that the Whitebeard Pirates were on the move. The Marine says that they lost contact with the 23 ships guarding Whitebeard, all of them instantly vanishing, most probably taken out by the Whitebeard Pirates. He also states that other pirate crews are on the move in the New World. It is not known if any of these are any major pirate crews. Sengoku tells Marines to start guarding Impel Down, as Whitebeard tries to break Ace out.
Meanwhile, Garp is in Impel Down, going to visit Ace in prison. Garp asks Ace if he's still alive. Unsurprisingly, Ace laughs and says 'old man'.

While traveling on Momonga's ship to Impel Down, Luffy has a nightmare about being separated the rest of his crew by Bartholomew Kuma. Hancock attempts to reassure Luffy but fantasizes about how he would respond and becomes too flustered to talk to him.
A few days earlier, Nami lands after being sent flying by Kuma. Haredas finds her outside his house and takes her in to help her recover. Nami wakes up in a panic and throws objects at Haredas, but soon calms down; Haredas cooks a meal for Nami and explains that she has slept for two days since landing on the island. In an attempt to cheer her up, Haredas shows Nami a some Wind Knots, which generate increasingly intense wind when untied, but this annoys Nami and she attempts to leave for Sabaody Archipelago. Walking outside into an intense storm, Nami realizes that a cyclone is approaching and goes back inside to warn Haredas. Haredas is not concerned, and suggests that Nami showers; Nami is surprised to find that Haredas' shower generates miniature rain clouds which generate hot water.
With the cyclone still approaching, Haredas leaves his house and walks through the storm with ease but Nami can not keep up with him due to the storm. Nami finds the Wind Knots and uses them alongside her Perfect Clima-Tact to disperse the cyclone. Haredas reappears and is impressed with Nami's Wind Knot skills. With the sky clear, Nami realizes that she is on a Sky Island, which Haredas explains is called Weatheria and is home to scientific studies of weather.
On a Winter Island, Kitton, Kitton's grandfather and Taroimo mistakenly attack Franky while hunting, but he is unharmed. Kitton's grandfather offers Franky a fur pelt to help him withstand the cold, but he refuses to wear it as it clashes with his fashion style. They join Franky in a dance and Kitton's grandfather explains that they are on Karakuri Island, birthplace of a genius; He is interrupted as Franky succumbs to the cold and passes out.
Franky is taken to the hospital, but the doctors there cannot find any cola to refuel him with and use tea instead, changing his personality to be a polite gentleman. Kitton doesn't like Franky's new personality, but Franky is bemused by Kitton's demonstration of what he used to be like. Unknown to Franky, elsewhere on the island is an abandoned building surrounded by Keep Out signs displaying the name Vegapunk.

On Momonga's ship, Hancock demands that her meals be at least one hundred kilos each, which she gives to Luffy while continuing to fantasize about him. Two Marines attempt to peek in on Hancock's room, so she turns them to stone.
A few days earlier on an island in the South Blue, Chopper dreams about finding the rest of the crew but is woken by two giant birds pecking at his face. The birds treat Chopper like a toy, rolling him across the floor and tossing him around, then drop him into the forest below them. Later, Chopper remembers that he has Rayleigh's vivre card and plans to find food in the forest and get back to the crew, but is knocked out by on of the island's natives. Chopper wakes up tied up and dangling over a boiling pot as the natives plan use him as the main ingredient in their "Tanuki" hot pot. Chopper escaped using his Heavy Point when the natives are attacked by the birds and flee. The narrator explains that Chopper is on Torino Kingdom, an island where birds reign supreme and a treasure is said to be.
Sanji arrives on the dream-like Momoiro Island, where everything is pink and girly. He is found by Elizabeth, who takes him to a bench and wipes his face with her handkerchief. When Sanji wakes up, Elizabeth is flustered and runs away before Sanji has a chance to see her face, but he follows her to thank her and give her handkerchief back. Along the way, Sanji notices several pink animals with blond flowing hair and wonders if he is in heaven. At her home, Sanji begins to talk to Elizabeth from behind a closed door, when he mentions that he is a cook. Elizabeth asks if Sanji also likes clothes and flowery dresses, which he says he does, interpreting the question as having an interest in how dresses look on her.
Elizabeth lets Sanji in and hands him a dress to try on, at which point he finally sees her face and realizes that she is actually an Okama (a cross dressing man). Sanji realizes that everyone else on the island is an okama (even the animals) and the narrator explains that Momoiro Island is the second Maiden Island, where everyone has girly hearts. A group of okamas chase Sanji, trying to make him wear the dress, and explain that they are called the Kamabakka Kingdom, but Sanji describes where he's landed as "hell".

On Momonga's ship, Hancock fetches Luffy some food while two of the Marines comment on their many crew mates who've been turned to stone, wondering if they'll actually make it to Impel Down. Hancock asks Luffy about his crew and panics when she hears about Nami and Robin, imagining Luffy leaving her for them.
Elsewhere, Soran finds Robin in the snow and invites her into her home, avoiding officers who are whipping fellow people of the country on the way. When they arrive, Soran's house mates want Robin to leave, but eventually all but one agree to let her stay in Soran's room (the building's loft). Soran gives Robin some food, and comments that she smells odd due to spending time in the outside world, as Soran has never left the island. Soran hears an alarm and is told she has to get back to work, as the people of the country work all day and night, and Robin agrees to tell her about her voyages when she returns.
Some time later, Soran returns filthy and Robin asks what work she's told to do. Soran explains that the country, Tequila Wolf, houses a bridge that all the citizens are building to connect many islands together, which has been under construction for centuries. Soran shows Robin some pictures she drew of imaginary places, explaining that drawing makes her feel like she can travel the world. Robin notices a drawing of a Sky Island and describes her journey to Skypiea. Although the officers force people to work until they collapse from exhaustion, Soran explains that she takes consolation that the bridge will allow more people to travel the word, and that she dreams of traveling the world too. The rest of Soran's house notices the conversation and ask if they can listen too, but the woman who didn't want to keep Robin tells the officers about her in exchange for being able to leave the country.
Soran's group hides Robin on the roof as a captain enters and questions them, destroying Soran's pictures in an attempt to make her talk. When this doesn't work he decides to torture them instead and specifies that they show no mercy to Soran. Outside, Robin attacks the officers using clutch, but she eventually surrenders herself. With Robin handcuffed, the officers explain that Tequila Wolf is made up of criminals and citizens of countries that refuse to ally with the world government that are forced into labor as slaves, and that they have been building the bridge for over 700 years. Robin is then told that she is now one of the slaves.
On an island in the Boin Archipelago, Usopp explores a jungle and is attacked by a giant beetle. He is saved by Heracles, who kills and eats it before introducing himself to Usopp. Usopp attempts to eat one of the island's fruits, but a man eating plant sneaks up on him and attacks him. Usopp is swarmed by several plants which Heracles fends off easily. Heracles tells Usopp that he is on the "Swindling Forrest" Greenstone.

On Momonga's ship, Hancock continues to worry about Luffy leaving her for Nami and Robin, while Luffy loudly burps and comments on how delicious his food is. Hancock warns him that he is being too loud, and Lieutenant Stalker overhears Luffy and becomes suspicious of Hancock.
On a gloomy island, Perona complains to herself that, although Kuma took her where she asked when he sent her flying, she is bored and annoyed by the lack of any servants or stuffed animals. She sees Zoro land and takes him to the island's castle. When Zoro wakes up, Perona knocks him out again with a negative hollow and dresses him in a Kumashi costume. Perona insists that Zoro will be her new servant and uses more negative hollows in an attempt to make him obey her, but Zoro decides to leave anyway. Perona follows Zoro using her Hollow abilities and insists that he stays.
On the "Land of Poverty" Harahettania, Namakura Island, a group of worshipers perform a ritual to summon Satan, which they assume has worked when Brook lands in front of them. The worshipers say that they want revenge against the Longarm Tribe and ask "Satan" what he wants in return. Brook answers that he would like to see one of the female worshiper's panties, which every worshiper (even the men) complies with to Brook's confusion.
Back in the present, Stalker asks Hancock if someone else is in her room as the rest of the Marines wait outside. One of the Marines comments that he'll give himself a Mohawk if Hancock spoke in the way they heard Luffy talking. Hancock leaves her room and imitates what Luffy said, shocking the Marines and turning their haircuts into Mohawks, and insists on the ridiculous amount of food Luffy wants.
There are six days left until Ace's execution, and several Marines (T Bone, Comil, Jonathan, Drake, Jango, Fullbody, Hina, Smoker, Tashigi and John Giant), the Admirals and the remaining Shichibukai arrive at Marineford in preparation for Whitebeard's expected retaliation. Garp visits Ace's cell, where Ace asks Garp to kill him. Garp retorts that, at this point, nothing can stop the war between Whitebeard and the Marines.

Vice Admiral Garp talked proudly to Ace at Impel Down about some of Luffy's actions, and mentions that they both have the blood of a world class criminal. Ace claims that Whitebeard is his only father since he took care of him after he went wild.
Meanwhile, on Vice-Admiral Momonga's ship in Boa Hancock's disguise, Luffy is worried about Ace. On the deck of the Marine Ship, Momonga spotted Captain Buggy's ship and it seems familiar to him. The Buggy Pirates spotted a Sea King that emerged adjacent to them and fell back into the sea. The Buggy Pirates were worried about their Captain that was taken away to Impel Down and wanted to free him, but it would be impossible for them to break inside. Alvida suggests that they should take a small boat if they want to get to Impel Down, so they conclude it would be too dangerous for them and quit the breakout attempt.
Prisoners of Impel Down are being tortured; a new prisoner refuses to obey another prisoner's orders and starts a fight. Minotaurus stopped them and took them both to a different prison cell where they were eaten alive.
Momonga's ship arrives at Impel Down through the Gate of Justice. Other Marine ships wait at the entrance of Impel Down. With all of the Marine ships, Luffy wonders if someone used a Buster Call. Momonga, Hancock, and Luffy, hidden under Hancock's cloak, departed the ship and enter Impel Down. Hancock struggled to put up with the Marine's love for her, but Momonga politely suggested to her not to petrify them. Around about this time, Buggy the Clown escaped from his cell on Level 1.
Prisoners inside Impel Down were screaming. Hannyabal greeted Momonga and Hancock at the prison. Hannyabal told Momonga that he wanted to see Warden Magellan of Impel Down. Vice Jail Manager Domino escorts Hancock to a room where she could privately search Hancock as usual with all visitors. Domino took her search on Hancock seriously by making Hancock wear a Seastone handcuff to disable her Devil Fruit powers. Hancock accepted it, but her heart is beating from the tension.

Upon entry to Impel Down, the Surveillance Den Den Mushi glares for anything suspicious. Boa Hancock believes Domino will make her powerless. Just as Domino is about to apply the Seastone handcuffs, Hancock flirts with the guard and fires a Love-Love Mellow beam at her, turning Domino and the Den Den Mushi into statues. With the guards in shock, Monkey D. Luffy comes out safely. Hancock insists that it is where they part ways. If she had removed her cloak, there would be no place for Luffy to hide.
She also worries about the horrors that Impel Down has in store if her new friend were captured. But Luffy is confident and promises to not let her down, saying "Hancock" instead of "Hammock" for the first time. Hancock dreams of marriage with Luffy thinking she will die happy. Outside, Hannyabal and Momonga are impatient.
Suddenly, Hannyabal gets a call and moves to check on Hancock. Just then, Hancock and Domino walk out having completed the body search. He accepts that the check was short. Luffy sneaks away waiting for Hannyabal to leave. The Vice-Warden warns the group must go through the Burning Heat Floor by the warden. As the elevator doors close, Hancock wishes Luffy luck and suddenly thinks Luffy loves her.
Luffy learns that Portgas D. Ace is being held in the basement level and the Vivre Card is almost burning out.
Outside, a Sea King is cut through by Blugoris to be stored in the fridge for dinner.
As Hannyabal's party continue their descent, they pass the suffering of minor offense prisoners. Hannyabal explains that Level 1 is the Crimson Floor, a secret even to him; Level 2 is the Floor of Wild Beasts from Hell; Level 3 is the Starvation Floor, and Level 4 is the Burning Heat Floor, where prisoners are boiled. He also hopes the group will enjoy the torture of prisoners.
While Luffy races down the stairs, a group of prisoners are surprised that Buggy has begun breaking out. He plans to leave the prisoners behind thinking it is every man for himself. Buggy runs through the halls and is nearly spotted by a Surveillance Den Den Mushi. But as he continues his run, it spots him and he bids a greeting. Angry, Buggy decides to try and fight his way out. The Blugori guards chase down Buggy. 
Meanwhile, Luffy supposedly comes to a dead end and dodges some guards. Luffy swings through the doorway. On the Crimson Floor, the Straw Hat captain hears Buggy crying in distress. The clown pirate tries to escape and stops near a danger button. He unexpectedly presses it, causing spikes to nearly drop onto Luffy and spears to come out of the wall.
Just then, guards are attracted to the shenanigans Luffy was causing. Luffy is then spotted by the prisoners that Buggy left behind. He explains he was coming in and was not behind bars. The mention of Ace intrigues the prisoners. They point Ace is locked on Level 5, a block where prisoners with high bounties are held. As the prisoners request Luffy to free them, the Blugoris run towards Buggy as well as Luffy. Buggy continues running even when split in two.
The clown pirate is shocked to see Luffy again even after their past encounter. The Straw Hat pirate informs Buggy he just broke into the jail. As the two argue, a Blugori almost hits them. Angry that the escape plan is botched, Buggy looks back in his despising of Luffy and Shanks, then he and Luffy decide to fight through, knocking out some Blugori guards.

As more Blugoris give chase, Luffy knocks out some with a Gum-Gum Whip. Buggy fakes a crybaby fit then takes a guard by surprise with Chop-Chop Quick Escape and knocks the guard down with Aerial Topspin Big Top. The guard gets back up but is then knocked down again by Luffy. This leaves the clown pirate is shock. Buggy explains the Blugoris or Blue Gorillas are very tough fighters, but Luffy already had beaten them.
A guard is informed that one of the escapees is with Luffy and have beaten the Blugoris.
Buggy is surprised that Luffy has arrived to save Ace and refuses an offer to get free from the prisoners. The clown also thinks back to when he and his crew met Ace when a feast was crashed. Having become friends, Buggy worries that the capture of Ace will incur the wrath of Whitebeard and rejects helping Luffy get into Level 5. Luffy also reminds that 10 battleships are on point, guarding the jail's docks.
As Buggy formulates a plan, he spots the armband that Nami gave Luffy and tries to pry. More guards arrive, forcing them to leave. The clown hopes if he gets the armband, they'll find Ace for sure. Buggy flies through leaving his feet in Luffy's hands.
In a flashback, Buggy had walked through a cave supposedly containing Captain John's treasure. The clown warns what dangers will await. Just then, a group of workers spotted Buggy's party thinking they were recruits. As he dug through the cave, Buggy was frustrated. As Buggy's crew searched for the treasure, he was spotted by a group of marines at a navy base. They threw him in Impel Down and he thought it was destiny.
Buggy explains they need to go through the levels by number, first Level 1 to 2. He also says he was tortured in Level 4 a few times before. Below Level 5, a group of criminals are wiped from history. When Luffy thinks about the treasure map, he presents the armband mistaking it for the map to Captain John's treasure. Buggy takes the band thanking Luffy.
Just then, Buggy crashes into a wall, with Luffy convinced it will contain a shortcut.
Meanwhile, Hancock and Hannyabal's party continue their descent with the former getting more worried for Luffy. Hancock steps on the vice-warden for interrupting her romantic moment.
Luffy and Buggy break through a wall into the guard room. They soon find themselves in a red spiky forest. Buggy explains the trees are Blade Trees and the grass is Spike Needle Grass to cut the feet. Venomous spiders chase the prisoners to further torture the prisoners. Luffy is shocked at this discovery about the Crimson Hell. Luffy throws Buggy's feet to the ground and it should protect him for a while.
Buggy flies along the bladed grass hopes to find an exit. Eventually, the two find a deep hole and it's a one way drop to Level 2. Luffy decides to jump anyway while Buggy flees with the armband thinking he'll finally get the treasure he's aimed for. Then, a Blugoris aims an axe, sending Buggy's main body down the hole and soon, Buggy's head follows.
Elsewhere, a large wild beast roars while some of the prisoners complain about its hunger. Galdino despairs knowing he would be eaten soon. Luffy and Buggy continue their descent.

Luffy is seen diving while Buggy quickly follows behind saying he doesn't want to descend to a further Hell. Buggy's body lands on the ground first followed by his head and Buggy looks around remaking how "creepy" it is. Buggy then says that he has the scope to find Captain John's treasure but before the greedy pirate can make a move, Luffy grabs his head and suddenly starts to run off wanting to know where to go next. They continue running until they reach a dead end and Luffy looks around in the area. Buggy then tells Luffy about Level 2: Wild Beast Hell where many wild beasts from Hell freely roam around on the floor. As Buggy thinks to himself about trying to get away from Luffy, Luffy spots one of the wild beasts of Hell coming. They both turn to the direction and it turns out to be just a hippo. The two don't seem intimidated at first but soon, the hippo opens it's rather large mouth attempting to eat both Luffy and Buggy. The hippo manages to eat Buggy's body and Luffy and Buggy make a getaway. The hippo quickly chases after them and Buggy yells at Luffy for commenting on its speed. The hippo runs straight into the wall but soon manages to cut off Luffy and Buggy and the two escape again. Luffy wonders if Buggy cares for his body and Buggy says that thanks to his powers, he is okay. He then has his body from inside the hippo's mouth grab onto it and causes the hippo to slam into the wall knocking it out. Buggy reforms with his body and gloats on his victory over the hippo.
From inside a security room, the Impel Down guards are monitoring Buggy's actions through a nearby Den Den Mushi. They are trying to figure out the person that is with Buggy and Buggy and Luffy continue running. Buggy is still trying to think of a plan to escape but soon stops running when he hears something nearby. Luffy wonders if it was a bat and suddenly, Buggy is chopped up by a large praying mantis. Buggy survives thanks to his ability and the mantis continues to attack. However, the mantis gets its claws stuck into the ground and Luffy and Buggy simply move on. Luffy wonders if they are really monsters from Hell and Buggy says that Level 1 was scarier than them. However, a large gust of wind blows away the mantis and a large monster appears before Luffy and Buggy and they both run off. Luffy wants to know what that monster is and Buggy comments it's a snake hatched from a chicken head: a Basilisk. The Basilisk attempts to eat them but gets temporarily stuck between a narrow hallway. Seeing no other choice, Luffy uses Gear 3 and prepares to fight the Basilisk.
Back in the security room, the guards finally identify the person with Buggy as Luffy and are informed to capture both of them dead or alive. The guards prepare to leave but suddenly, the Basilisk gets sent crashing into the security room by Luffy's Gomu Gomu no Gigant Pistol. Transmission gets cut off on Level 2 and the other guards want to know what's happening. On an elevator, Boa Hancock complains about the heat and Domino says that the warden's office is on Level 4: Blazing Hell. The elevator stops on Level 4 and Momonga wants to know where the warden is. Domino says that Warden Magellan has terrible digestive problems and usually stays in the bathroom for up to 10 hours a day. She continues saying that he needs 8 hours of sleep so he roughly works only 4 hours a day. Hancock wonders if that's enough for a warden and Domino says that if there is a problem, Magellan is the man to take care of it. The group reaches the bathroom and Domino warns Hancock that Magellan ate the Doku Doku no Mi meaning he's a poison man so to be careful. Magellan eventually walks out and thanks everyone for their time and introduces himself to everyone. Magellan complains about the bright light and would much rather stay locked up in a dark room. Hannyabal then tells Magellan to stop being ridiculous while Momonga says they are pressed for time. Magellan apologizes saying that the poison soup he had for breakfast disagreed with him. Hannyabal then wants Magellan to retire so that he can become warden and Magellan breathes poison smoke at him. Hancock knocks Magellan down for breathing in her direction but Magellan becomes infatuated with her. Hannyabal then answers the warden's Den Den Mushi but Magellan knocks him down with his poison breath. Domino then asks a nearby guard to get an antidote for Hannyabal and Magellan is informed about an intruder in Impel Down. Hancock, worried, manages to get Magellan to take her to Ace right away before the video got transferred.
Back on Level 2, the guards want to know why Luffy is in Impel Down and why Buggy is with them. Buggy is shocked that Luffy just took down the Basilisk but is also surprised to see that Luffy is so small now. Luffy turns back to his normal size and wants to get to Level 3 fast. The nearby prisoners are amazed to see what has happened and compliments Luffy and Buggy for defeating the Basilisk (though it was just Luffy alone that did it). The prisoners then ask Luffy and Buggy to free them from their cells and hand-cuffs. Galdino, better known as Mr. 3, can be seen in the cell hoping to escape as well. Buggy, after managing to get the prisoners to beg for their freedom, unlocks their cells and cuffs. The prisoners are excited to be free and thank Buggy for saving them. Luffy then grabs Buggy still wanting to get down to Level 3. More prisoners attempt to escape but they are stopped by the many wild beasts of Hell. Luffy and Buggy continue running and Buggy admits to Luffy that he lied to him. Suddenly, Luffy and Buggy run into the fleeing prisoners and they all go back into their cells. The prisoners don't want to escape due to the boss of the level still around. Buggy then agrees to take Luffy to Level 3 but Luffy says that Buggy doesn't even know how to get there. Suddenly, Galdino walks up and offers his aid on how to get Level 3. Luffy then remembers him.
At Marineford, Fleet Admiral Sengoku has been informed that Luffy has infiltrated Impel Down. Sengoku thought that Bartholomew Kuma had taken care of him but then wonders why would Luffy break into Impel Down. However, Sengoku then says that Luffy will meet his end there as Impel Down has held thousands of powerful prisoners without no escapes. Sengoku then remembers one guy that managed to break out of Impel Down twenty years ago becoming the only person to ever break out of Impel Down: Shiki the Golden Lion.

Twenty years ago, a prisoner named The Golden Lion Shiki escapes from Impel Down by cutting off his own legs. When Magellan and some guards went to his cage, they were shocked that he had cut off his legs.
Going forward in time a large submarine with lots of people inside is seen. A worker announces Shiki has called, with the people appearing shocked. Corto calls Shiki back and talks to him. At the same time, Luffy, Usopp, Chopper, and Brook were fishing and could not catch anything. Sanji told them that they shouldn't have had a banquet before arriving at the next island. Suddenly, Brook's fishing rod started to shake. At that same time, Franky noticed a large beetle coming at the Thousand Sunny. As Brook caught the fish, the large beetle went right past them. The large beetle then came back and ate the large fish. Then a girl named Yoko looked at the pirate ship (Thousand Sunny). She told Boss, the large beetle's name, to kill the Straw Hat Pirates. Boss then headed towards the ship, and Franky attacks it. However, his attack did not work. Luffy then went to the top of the sail and battled Boss. Suddenly, Boss inhaled and exhaled fire, very similar to Franky's fresh fire attack. Luffy, who was fine, rides Boss. Boss went down to the lawn deck and picked up Usopp. Zoro and Sanji grabbed Boss's legs and headed to an unknown island, where Yoko was. Boss got his nose stuck on the cliff, while the East Blue team (except Nami) went on ground. Then, Yoko bit Luffy until Zoro, Sanji, and Usopp came up and people came out of the entrance of the cave. Yoko told them that they are pirates, and the people bowed before them, until an old man came out, saying they are the Straw Hat Pirates. The people were surprised, showing them into a maze-like cave.
As they went to the back of the island, they found a town. The buildings were all based upon the buildings in East Blue and the islanders told them that everyone living there was from the East Blue. The name of the island was then revealed to be Kansorn Island, also known as Little East Blue. The giant windmill reminded Luffy of the one in Foosha Village; the training hall was for people who came from Zoro's hometown, Shimotsuki Village; Baratie where Sanji was raised; and the most famous girl in town, Luigia, lives in a mansion that reminds Usopp of Kaya. Back in the Sunny, Chopper worried about the team. Nami predicted that they will call them soon. Robin and Franky thinks if Boss joins the crew, they'll have to get an insect cage. Just after that, Usopp called Nami. Usopp told Nami to come to the back of the island, because the people wanted her to come. He hangs up and Nami goes on Shiro Mokuba I to go to the island. After a while, Corto and his brother, with some men, are going to Kansorn Island to capture Boss because it escaped from Shiki.

Nami rides the Shiro Mokuba I to a cave where members of the Orenami Fanclub introduce themselves. As they show Nami the inside of the island, they flirt with her. The rest of the crew are looking at the different places of the town that resemble their home towns. Luffy rides on a windmill as the old man tells him that he should be familiar with them because he's from Foosha Village. Luffy replies that he is but they do not have one that big. Zoro went to the training hall identical to the one from Shimotsuki Village. He sees the dummies and remembers the past when Kuina was practicing and battling with him when they were younger. Then, a teacher along with his students come out. As they see Zoro, the teacher tells his students to battle him, thinking that Zoro wants to battle them. But a man stops them and says that he is "Pirate Hunter" Zoro-san. The students (and teacher) want autographs from him. Yoko, who was spying on them, gets mad. Going to Usopp, there is a flashback of him telling Kaya about a large goldfish at the South Pole when he was 5 years old. He told her that he was on the goldfish's humongous poop that he thought was solid ground. After the flashback ends, he is amazed by the mansion... and shocked at how thin it is. The man told him that Luigia used to live in a mansion like this. Usopp states that it wasn't like this. Then the door opens and Usopp stares at a girl sitting on a chair. At first, he thinks she is Kaya, but realized he was wrong when he saw an old lady with purple hair.
We then see "The Baratie" where Sanji and a cook are in. As the cook prepares food, he asks if Sanji is a Straw Hat member, and learns that Sanji was a cook on the original Baratie. The cook tells Sanji that he loved Zeff's food and tried to steal ideas when it opened. After both go downstairs to the dining area, Sanji is given a meal that looks (and to his amazement, tastes) like one made by Zeff. It triggers a flashback where Sanji tries to learn how to cook by watching Zeff prepare food. As Sanji tastes it, he becomes excited while Zeff looks back at him and smiles. Sanji then runs out, crying, because he knows how Zeff made the dish. Back to the present, Sanji tells the cook that his dish tastes even better than Zeff's, which causes the cook to cry in joy. Yoko spies on them, still angry that the people are enjoying the presence of the pirates. Usopp is shocked by the tiny size of the old lady. She appears to be mad at him and then asks Usopp if he is from Syrup Village to which he replies yes. She also knows that he is the son of Yasopp. Then Usopp asks if she really lived in a mansion there. The old lady then chokes Usopp on the ground and tells him that it is everyone's dream to live there. She also wanted to live there when she was a kid and made it true when she came to Little East Blue. Yoko spies on them as well and is still angry. Going back with Nami, the kids show her a naked statue of herself (based off of her bounty poster). Because it is naked, it was decided by the consensus. Then Nami hits them on the head.
Amigo's submarine emerges.Yoko with a tired Boss is angry at the crew. Yoko is then depressed and Boss tickles her. Yoko then laughs and tells him to stop. Going back to the submarine, the Amigo Pirates with their submarine goes up the surface and groups. Corto and his comrades go up to the submarine and tells them to capture Boss because he took off from Shiki's hide-out. Corto's brother, Largo is asleep, or is having a siesta. Corto wants to beat him up but one of his comrades said not to punch him or his comrades will die. Then they continue off without him. We go back to Sunny Go and Franky is done building an insect cage for Boss. Nico Robin, Chopper, and Brook tell Franky he is good at building. Chopper notes that they are ready for Boss. Going back to the town, there is a feast. The old man notes that it is a welcoming party for the crew. Then the crew eats meat and the others drink sake. Yoko then goes to the cave when Nami comes out. Nami told them that they said they were almost there but made her walk for hours. Then they told her that they wanted to show her the full extent of the island. Yoko then stops by Nami asking her that she is a pirate. She tells her that women as pirates are crazy. Then going to the flashback when Luffy first met Nami saying that he wants her to join the crew, but Nami refuses. Then they told Yoko saying that she can't tell Nami-sama like that. Then she bites him on the head. She runs and Nami told her to stop. Then they told Nami that her father was killed by pirates. Going back to the festival, when suddenly, there was a series of chaingun shots, destroying most of the buildings.
The Amigo Pirates showed themselves with guns, telling the citizens that they want Boss. Yoko then comes out to see what's happening. The cook then sees a piece of wood of the Baratie sign broken in front of him, dropping his pan. Depressed, he goes after Corto but was defeated easily. Sanji helps the cook and the old man saying that he represents the island habitats. Corto then asks where is the beetle. The old man replies that you cannot have him, and says that you can have everything on the island. Corto replies that he does want everything; the money, food, and the beetle as well. Luffy comes and said he could not eat another bite. Corto then asks him who he is and what is he doing. Luffy then turns to Corto, demanding him to go home. Corto asks why, and because Boss does not want to join a pirate crew. Corto gets mad and says he does not want the beetle to join them but to capture him. Corto then shoots cannon-bullets at Luffy but they were deflected easily. Corto is surprised that he is a devil fruit user. Luffy then uses Gomu Gomu No Whip to attack Corto. Luffy calls Zoro and Sanji to help him fight the other ones. Luffy tells Corto that he is going to fight him tomorrow. After that, a net came out of nowhere that captures Luffy. For much danger, the net had spikes in them. It was revealed to be Largo, who has eaten an unknown devil fruit. 

Largo reveals that he has eaten the Ami Ami no Mi, which gives him the ability to create nets from his body. Zoro and Sanji try to attack Largo, however, he manages to capture both of them with his powers, leaving the three main fighters of the Straw Hats trapped. Yoko desperately dashes towards Corto to attack him with a bamboo sword, and suddenly Boss appears and starts attacking the Amigo Pirates. Largo then eats a torch and creates a flaming net that stops the giant beetle in midair, meanwhile the other Amigo Pirates all shoot him with their guns, leaving him on the floor. Yoko approaches him and asks him he if his okay. He starts to get up again and flies towards the Amigo Pirates in order to let them take him, so the village would be spared. Various flashbacks of Boss and Yoko play. Largo creates a large iron net for Boss and he prepares to go into it, however Luffy punches him away, and says that he will not let him go with the Amigo Pirates, and that they have not yet had their battle. The villagers then realize that permitting Boss to sacrifice himself for the village was wrong and gather to start battling the Amigo Pirates. Boss's skin suddenly starts to shed, and he gets up with a new color and size. He then emits fire to free Luffy, Zoro and Sanji from the nets, however he starts to fall, since it was too soon for his skin to shed and for his transformation. Largo keeps him from falling using his nets and says he feels bad for the failed transformation and for the outcome of the situation, however Luffy says that it is not over yet and that they will not let the beetle's last breath be in vain, while they prepare for battle.

After escaping from the net, Luffy knocks Largo far away and goes off to fight him. Nami pretends to evacuate the villagers but takes them through other tunnels to surprise the Amigo Pirates while they are fighting Zoro and Sanji. Luffy fights Largo but becomes trapped when he turns his entire body into a net. Luffy uses Gear Third to inflate and break out of the net before defeating Largo with Gigant Pistol, destroying his ship in the process. Boss saves Luffy from falling into the sea and then starts fighting him in a rematch that lasts for hours. Yoko and Nami discuss their respective pasts, before Nami brings the Straw Hats together and sets sail from the island. It is revealed that Boss was a specially created insect that had escaped from Shiki, and that he plans on using an army of similar creatures to wage war on the world.

Some Impel Down guards of Level 6 are talking about how surprisingly quiet it is. One of them says that the people imprisoned there are legendary monsters that have a bounty exceeding 100 million. The guard explains more about Level 6: Eternal Hell how the only way people leave that floor is when they are sentenced to death. Another guard says that dying for the prisoners is better than being locked up. The guards are then informed that warden, the assistant warden, and Warlord of the Sea Boa Hancock will be arriving soon. The guards are confused on why Hancock would want to visit "Fire Fist" Ace as he is the most dangerous inmate in the entire world now. One guard then remembers another Warlord that caused an uproar at Marine Headquarters and the Warlord is seen being put into the same cell as Ace. The Warlord is revealed to be Jinbe and Jinbe says he cannot accept death. Jinbe says he doesn't care if he loses his title as Warlord of the Sea but only wants to prevent the war. The guards of Level 6 just got word that the Basilisk has damaged the surveillance room and are shocked to hear that the intruders have beaten it. They want to know what's going on at Level 2.
On Level 2, Luffy, Buggy, and Galdino are seen running from several Wild Beasts of Hell. Luffy says that they don't have time to keep running while Buggy says that they must or they will become the monster's prey. Luffy, Buggy, and Galdino all attack the monsters at the same time but Luffy hits a Puzzle Scorpion that splits down into smaller beings. The monsters continue to chase after them but eventually lose Luffy and the others. The monsters and Puzzle Scorpions suddenly stop running and hear the sound of stomping and run off in that direction. Luffy, Buggy, and Galdino emerge from hiding from above as it is revealed that Buggy separated his feet and tricked the monsters into running away. However, Buggy blew their cover and the monsters soon start chasing after them again. Buggy then says that he heard that the boss of Level 2 is a large, lion-like creature. Luffy thinks the lion-like monsters chasing them are it but Galdino explains that they are Manticores and they will be trouble if they are caught by them. The Manticores suddenly start to imitate people voices and Galdino tells Luffy and Buggy to ignore them, as they're only randomly repeating what the prisoners have been saying; they don't actually know what it means. Some of the Manticores start saying weird things like "loincloth" and "strawberry panties", which creeps out Buggy (baffled by their stupidity) who asks just who have they been listening to around here. Luffy then asks Galdino how they can get further down and Galdino is surprised to hear that Luffy is not trying to escape. Buggy then tells Galdino that Luffy intends on saving his brother Ace and Galdino is shocked to hear that Luffy and Ace are related. Galdino, not wanting to have any part, tries to escape but is caught by Luffy who asks where the stairs are. Galdino then remembers that the stairs leading to Level 1 also lead down to Level 3 and intends on using Luffy to keep the beast distracted so he can escape to Level 1. Galdino agrees to help out and the group head down some stairs. Galdino ends up running into a large monster and it is revealed to be the guardian of Level 2: the Sphinx. The other monsters run away and the Sphinx suddenly starts to attack Luffy's group. Buggy and Galdino suddenly form a secret "Escape Alliance" and plan on using Luffy as a decoy.
Luffy notices Buggy and Galdino doing something but the Sphinx continues to attack Luffy. Luffy dodges the attack and uses Gomu Gomu no Bazooka to knock down the Sphinx. However, this only upsets the Sphinx and Luffy grabs onto the Sphinx's hair while Buggy escapes to high ground. The Sphinx then attacks Galdino but manages to escape by creating a wax figure of himself. Galdino gloats on his powers to the Sphinx and creates more wax figures of himself. The Sphinx then begins to attack the wrong ones and Luffy plays along making the Sphinx hit the wrong ones. Buggy and Galdino are both surprised to see how Luffy is playing along with the Sphinx while other prisoners are getting worried. The Sphinx's crushing causes more problems on Level 2 and Buggy and Galdino attempt to make their getaway. However, the Sphinx crushes the floor too much and a large hole opens sending it, Luffy, Buggy, and Galdino crashing down to Level 3.
Back on Level 6, Jinbe is saying how the World Government calls him a "pirate hating pirate" much to Ace's surprise. Jinbe says he spent a lot of time on Whitebeard's ship and admits he likes those guys. Ace recalls Jinbe trying to kill him but Jinbe replies that Ace tried to kill him back. Jinbe then says he wanted to help Whitebeard since Fish-Man Island is at peace because of him. Jinbe remembers the Great Pirate Era that many human pirates invaded Fish-Man Island and it was too much to hold them back. Jinbe says that many Fish-Men and Mermaids were captured and sold but then, Whitebeard appeared saying that the island belongs to him now. Jinbe says he will never forget how Whitebeard protected Fish-Man Island by doing that. Ace tells Jinbe to stop as he is being too hard on himself but Jinbe says he hasn't given up hope. Suddenly, someone from a nearby cell says that it's the perfect time to take down Whitebeard. Suddenly, the other Level 6 prisoners start saying that Whitebeard will die and they want to kill him. Crocodile continues saying how many people will hold back their tears if they didn't get the chance to kill Roger or Whitebeard. Meanwhile, Luffy, Buggy, Galdino, and the Sphinx are still seen falling down to Level 3.

Some of the guards on Level 2 report a massive hole made by Luffy and his party. As they complain that the Sphinx might have fallen down, the Level 2 cells open and the prisoners begin to trudge out. They move in on the guards filled with vengeance and thank Buggy for freeing them. They send the guards clinging for life. As the Blugoris are ordered to Level 2, word from Sengoku informs that Luffy and Ace are brothers because of the D.
Meanwhile at Marine Headquarters, Sengoku berates Garp over his humor at Luffy's actions. After telling him of Luffy's actions at Enies Lobby and the Sabaody Archipelago, Sengoku fears it unprecedented now that Impel Down is in uproar from a riot. However, he is confident that Impel Down is an impregnable symbol of justice. Garp is just relaxing eating from cookies. Sengoku informs the vice-admiral that Tsuru and he needs to keep the incident under wraps and confiscates the cookies.
At Impel Down, Luffy, his party and the Sphinx have landed on Level 3, as it resembles a hot desert with the sand being hot. Buggy complains about he never wanted to be on Level 3, and Galdino complains that his wax is melting from the heat. With no idea on where the stairs are, Luffy and his group decide to search. As the heat begins to wear them down, they spot a hummingbird collapse from the heat. Luffy begins to taste the fried bird.
Then, Buggy spots some prison cells in the distance and hopes they will gain access to the next stairwell. Luffy spots some prisoners who have endured the torturous heat, and are given very little to eat or drink. This is called the Starvation Hell. If they stay too long, they will crumble into sand. Buggy wants to take the stairs on the left, while Galdino hopes the pass on the right will lead them downward. A guard informs someone of Luffy's progress and the man on the other end says all is according to plan.
Meanwhile, more prisoners continue to fight through with no way for the guards to contact Magellan.
Buggy complains the party came back to where they started. As Buggy and Galdino protest going any further, a seastone net is deployed, capturing Luffy and his group. No one is able to break free. More guards with Blugoris arrive to apprehend them. They are led a little imp-like man named Saldeath. Luffy confuses Saldeath's identity for a salmon. The guard informs Luffy that the other guards are demons below them. Sphinx wakes up and begins to shake the net before breaking through crying out food names.
As the guards give chase to Luffy's group, the young pirate takes some down with his Gum-Gum Gatling. Mr. 3 and Buggy decide to desert Luffy planning to sacrifice him. With the guards converging, Luffy continues to fight his way through the guards. Sphinx is now on a rampage so the straw Hat captain uses the distraction to flee.
In the elevator, Magellan informs Hancock that their party will soon reach Ace's cell block. That area is filled with the most notorious criminals and Hancock requested access. The giant warden also informs of another ex-Warlord being held prisoner.
As Buggy and Galdino recover, the staircase going upward is closed off. They then hear French counting that Galdino seems to recognize. From his cell, Bentham performs a song with his cellmates before blowing a kiss.

Bentham continues singing while Buggy overhears thinking he is confident. Galdino begins to recognize the singing. The two dodge a Den Den Mushi while Bentham is giving his dancing lessons to prisoners. After the prisoners collapse, Bentham spots Buggy and Galdino outside his cell and is surprised to see the latter. The former Mr. 2 complains he was the one captured. The two pirates insist on not letting Bentham loose.
Luffy races down the stairs while Bentham, freed from his cell is informed that their old enemy is racing down the stairs. Bentham then begins to spin away.
Meanwhile, the alarms blare as the marine complain about Luffy's progress. This action would humiliate the World Government including Impel Down. As they prepare to head inside, a scantily clad woman guard named Sadi-chan appears. She is the commander of the Demon Guards. Sadi whips a marine for not saying chan in the back. Daigin realizes that the guards won't even need the Marines help in capturing Luffy so they can wait outside. Daigin reluctantly agrees and a suspicious koala-like demon is spotted. All entrances to Impel Down are then shuttered.
On Level 6, Magellan's party escorts Hancock to Ace's holding cell. Hannyabal expects Ace to behave, Jinbe is his special guest and Boa Hancock is visiting him. He hopes that when he is warden, Hancock will marry Hannyabal, but Jinbe shuts him up. Some of the prisoners become enamored to Hancock's presence, but she speaks to Ace about the war that is to come. Jinbe knows that almost all of the summons to Hancock have been rejected. Magellan is insulted when he tries to quiet the prisoners. The Snake Princess she'll be scared from the prisoner's sexist callings. As the prisoners continue to call to Hancock, Magellan fumes and becomes a large mass of poison before summoning poisonous dragons to teach the prisoners a lesson.
Magellan deploys the Hydra, three poisonous dragon heads over Hancock's conversation with Ace. The dragons breach the cells of the prisoners who are horrified and one of them is poisoned to the point where one would die. As Hancock leaves, Ace worries that his visitor told a truth. This intrigues Jinbe as Hancock said that Luffy is in the prison.
Luffy is suddenly climbing up some stairs and is near Section C. As the guards take aim, he barely dodges some seastone nets and meets with Sphinx again. Just then, Zoro arrives posing like a ballerina suddenly. He calls out to his "pal" and reveals his voice as Bentham, Mr. 2 Bon Clay who befriended Luffy back on Arabasta. He uses Swan Arabesque to incapacitate Sphinx.
After heroically sacrificing himself to divert Hina, Bentham was captured and brought to Impel Down. Luffy is delighted even though he'd rather have Zoro with him. Bentham then kicks through the guards daring them to hurt his friend. He and Luffy also further beat up Sphinx to teach it the law of the jungle.
Luffy and Bentham hug as swans never die, unless it's true. Saldeath complains about Bentham's persistence and sends some Blugoris at them. The ballerina-like man knows that Luffy wants to get to Level 5. According to him, Bentham wants to meet a selective person and they begin to fight through.

Luffy uses a Gum-Gum Whip and Gatling to take some Blugoris down while Bentham uses his skills to fight some as well. The guards learn that the following are aiding Luffy; Buggy, Galdino a.k.a. Mr. 3, and now Bentham a.k.a. Mr. 2 Bon Clay. As Bentham and Luffy race through Section N as they hope to get to the other side. Luffy's group reaches the stairs to Level 4.
Some of the prisoners know that Luffy and Buggy's parties will eventually be caught. Back at the surface, Domino uncuffs Hancock and gives her back her cloak. Hancock overhears reports of an intruder believing their breaking into hell. She also knows that Magellan's power is far beyond belief. Magellan learns that Saldeath was caught up in stopping the riot. Furious, Magellan yells at Hannyabal for the negligence and sprays some poison gas.
Sadi-chan enters with the guards saluting. With her demonic team at the ready, Sadi reports that Minotaurus is on the prowl. With too many places to hide on Level 3, Magellan orders the groups deployed to Level 4. He declares when the prisoners arrive on Level 4, he'll kill them all himself should Minotaurus fail.
Elsewhere, Buggy and Galdino are about to succumb to the intense heat of Level 3. The clown pirate hears that much of the guards are absent but wishes to continue. Just then. Minotaurus confronted Bentham and Luffy with his structure resembling a cow with strong abs, rushing at high speeds and slams his club. Luffy and Bentham dodges, and the latter explains that this demon will toss them around like garbage. The demon pounds his club on Bentham and gets some hits on Luffy. Bentham uses a Wait Just a Foette kick too try and stop the cow-like demon. It has no effect and Bentham faces danger of being strangled. Luffy knocks Minotaurus back with a Gum-Gum Jet Bazooka.
With the danger seemingly over, Bentham recovers thinking he saw the Oh Come My Way garden. He also complains how his make-up was wrecked. The ballerina-like pirate then points to climb the wall but it is hot on the other end. The two jump with the ground being hot for their feet. They then catch sight of the Burning Heat Hell, resembling a boiling pot. If the two jump recklessly, they could be burned alive.
Luffy is intrigued that Bentham wants to meet a certain someone, the Queen of Kamabakka Kingdom the pink paradise of the Grand Line. That person is Ivan, the miracle worker. He leads the queer people. Just then, Buggy and Galdino are spotted running away from Minotaurus and all four of them run for their lives. With Minotaurus being persistent, Buggy thinks back to the Buggy Ball that nearly wrecked Orange Town. Luffy seems to forget that moment. But Buggy has a Muggy Ball and shoots it out of his foot, blowing the cow-like demon back. It seems to have effect, but the monster recovers.
Desperate, Bentham kicks Minotaurus with Memoir of a Winter's Sky and Galdino combines his wax with Luffy's Gum-Gum Mallet Rifle, finally knocking down the demon. The four pirates celebrate their victory wishing to continue their journey.
Ace waits sadly while the guards warn Magellan. Hearing this, Ace warns Luffy to stay away.

Luffy and his allies take a short rest after their defeat of Minotaurus and try to figure out what to do next. That becomes quickly irrelevant when the floor breaks, dropping them and Minotaurus down to Level 4. In Level 4, a group of prisoners are shown carrying large, heavy pieces of lumber. One of the prisoners' attempts an escape by throwing his large piece at the guards. He then runs into and hits Daz Bonez (Mr. 1) on the head, causing him to bleed. Daz becomes angry, swings his lumber around and knocks the escaping prisoner into boiling blood. Meanwhile, Momonga prepares to take Boa Hancock to Marineford, but receives troubling news of a fight between two of the Four Emperors: Shanks and Kaidou. Momonga reflects on preparations for the upcoming war between Whitebeard and Marine Headquarters with the Shichibukai as their allies. He also states that the upcoming war will be remembered by the world regardless who wins.
Magellan and his subordinates are making preparations of their own in order to capture Luffy, Buggy, Galdino, and Bentham by splitting their forces to guard the stairs to the different levels. Meanwhile, Luffy presses on, smelling the scent of food in the kitchen. Buggy, intent on following Luffy in case there was booze in the kitchen, is stopped by Galdino because he is worried about running into Magellan. Luffy and Bentham defeat the oncoming onslaught of Impel Down guards with ease. The guards quickly report the casualties to Hannyabal who then decides to intercept the intruders himself. Magellan stops Luffy and Bentham from going any further by dropping himself in front of them and declaring that he's had enough of their rampage.

Magellan begins to attack Luffy and Bentham. Luffy tries to fight back but Bentham does everything he can to make Luffy run away. Magellan then informs the two that they have blockaded the staircases to Level 5 and Level 3. The 3 remaining Jailer Beasts and Sadi guard the Level 5 entrance. Hannyabal and a group of guards guard Level 3's entrance. Magellan then uses his Hydra attack and sends Luffy and Bentham on the run (which Bentham insists on distracting the Warden disguised as Luffy, so the real Luffy could get away). The two split up and Magellan starts to pursue Luffy who has already breathed in some of the poison from Magellan's attack. Bentham starts to worry and begins to think of ways to help only to realize that he himself would get harmed. Magellan also tries to interrogate Luffy on how he snuck into the prison but Luffy refuses to say anything.
Meanwhile, Buggy and Galdino plot to go back to Level 3 since the Warden is busy with Luffy. They reach the gate and prepare to fight when Hannyabal offers the two to go to Level 3. This is only so he can use it to get Magellan fired as Warden and take his job. Both Buggy and Galdino believe it to be a trick and Buggy unleashes a Muggy Ball and Galdino uses his devil fruit powers to take down the guards and anger Hannyabal. The fight between Magellan and Luffy begins to favor towards Magellan which makes Luffy go into Gear Second and deliver a Jet Bazooka into Magellan's gut while being inflicted with his poison.

On Hannyabal's part, he scolds the guards for not letting Buggy and Galdino slip by, as he wanted to blame Magellan. Buggy fears that Hannyabal is more stronger and Galdino decides he wants to bite his own tongue off.
Meanwhile, Luffy feels intense pain in his hands from his last punch against Magellan. The poison seems to be getting to him. Bentham rushes through some guards demanding they get out of his way. He also uses a Drunken Swan Soiree to bash his way through. He despairs knowing Magellan is unbeatable and all Bentham can do is run away and abandon Luffy to his fate.
Luffy's hands are burning while Magellan says he was brought to his knees. Having spotted that Luffy's hands are covered in poison, it gives Magellan a tremendous advantage. The Straw Hat captain roars determined and tries a Twin Jet Pistol blowing the warden back; the latter then shoots a Venom Blowfish poison ball out of his mouth that Luffy dodges. Luffy continues to dodges and tries a Gum-Gum Jet Pistol breaking through a poison Hydra. Despite his efforts, the poison begins to overtake Luffy as his attacks are anemic against the warden. He soon finds himself in a poisonous fog being blown out of Magellan's mouth. A Venom Cloud is formed disorienting Luffy.
As the fog is part of Magellan, it lives and breathes poison like him. Luffy finds he is slipping, losing his concentration and tries a Gum-Gum Balloon to blow back the air. Soon, Luffy's hands give out and in time, the poison will rob him of everything. The Straw Hat captain collapses.
In his cell, Ace raises his head.
Galdino prepares to bite his tongue off but loses the courage to do so. Hannyabal orders the prisoners removed and Buggy and Galdino are taken against their will. But Bentham uses a Swan Arabesque, taking the guards by surprise. He also takes down some more guards, angering Hannyabal who engages the former Baroque Works Mr. 2. Bentham dodges his attacks rapidly and suddenly, the vice-warden find himself glaring at a woman.
Magellan walks over to the downed Luffy and begins to walk off. Luffy rises again as the warden senses his enemy is desperate to save Ace. The angry Luffy beats his head on the floor before charging again. Magellan catches the pirate's arm and slams him down.
Ace asks for the truth from a jailer. But receives word that nothing is happening. Jinbe only looks on.
Magellan informs Luffy that Ace is to be facing capital punishment as a notorious criminal. He believes the young pirate is misguided thinking the rescue will be justified. Luffy tries to hit the warden with no success and burns his foot in the process. The Straw Hat captain then goes into Second Gear as Magellan releases another Hydra. The two clash with Luffy wanting his brother back. In the end, Magellan says to the defeated Luffy that there's no way to neutralize the amount of poison he had absorbed. For twenty-four hours, Luffy will agonize and finally die while Magellan declares it "true hell" while the pirate cries to Ace.

With Luffy defeated, Magellan orders the guards to throw Luffy to the central tower on Level 5. He also learns that someone is causing a disturbance at the stairwell Hannyabal is guarding. On Level 5, some of the prisoners are suffering from frostbite. Some want to warm up at the Burning Hell. The prisoners spot Luffy being carried through the yard on a wagon and see how effective the poison is.
Magellan spots the downed guards and chokes Hannyabal demanding an explanation. The vice-warden explains he was caught off guard. He also says some ballerina-martial artists fought through him. A guard says the ballerina was once Mr. 2 for Baroque Works. With the riot on Level 2 under control, Magellan orders the Level 4 guards to Level 3 and wants Sadi-chan's demons searching for the escaped prisoner. The warden then leaves for his "private place". Hannyabal orders his guards on their feet and plans to interrogate Buggy and Galdino. In the interrogation room, Buggy and his friend believes they won't be tortured. Hannyabal says they need to save Luffy and reveals himself as Bentham in disguise.
Buggy warns that Luffy will be already dead by then, and locked on Level 5. Bentham declares he would die like a dog but in a heroic sacrifice for Luffy. Buggy believes Bentham is crazy to attempt a rescue, but he replies that Luffy is his friend. They hope to procure an antidote for the poison.
Hannyabal is surprised that there is no way to make an antidote for Magellan's poison and scolds the medical team, hoping to want the pirate turned over to the marines. If a medication is done incorrectly, Luffy will also die. Bentham nearly despairs and is told to throw in the towel by Buggy. When Galdino says it would take a miracle, Bentham hears that a "miracle worker" is held in Impel Down and his name is Iva.
At Level 5, "Hannyabal" informs the guards he wants to transfer the captured prisoners. The former Mr. 3 worries the obsession will be the end of Mr. 2. Bentham examines the list of prisoners worried that Ivankov might be executed or released. Just then, a guard knows what really happened to the miracle worker.
A guard informs that some of the prisoners had gone missing, thinking they've been "demoned away" dragged to the gates of hell. At the gates to Level 5, the guard wants to take the weapons and coat so the prisoners freeze in the Freezing Hell and there are Army Wolves swarming about. With this, Bentham's party begins to freeze up in the Freezing Hell.
Galdino frees Buggy with his handcuff keys and the group spots the Army Wolves that are very hungry. "Hannyabal" dares Buggy and Galdino to try and fight back and begins to fight the wolves as well, not wishing to die like an animal. Shedding his disguise, Bentham begins to fight the wolves.
Buggy and his partner try to fight back against the cold by running. When they remember how they formed their partnership, the two rub together but it is ineffective. They find more wolves and Buggy tries to fly away.
In his cell, Luffy begins to writhe from the massive poison he absorbed. He informs the prisoners he wanted to save Ace. When told it's every man for himself, Luffy suddenly sees Bentham walking to his cell with keys.

Bentham frees Luffy from his cell on Level 5 and together they set off in search of Emporio Ivankov, the miracle worker whom Bentham believes can cure Luffy's poisoning. Meanwhile, Buggy and Galdino attempt to escape from the wolves by enclosing themselves in a wax bunker, however the wolves prove too cunning for them and continue to hound the pair. After gaining dubious advice on Ivankov's location from another prisoner, Bentham heads into the forest dragging the unconscious Luffy behind him in a cart. They are then attacked by a pack of Wolves. Bon Kurei attempts to fight but is quickly overwhelmed. An angry outburst of Haki from Luffy takes down the wolves, but the two collapse unconscious in the snow. They are then approached by a mysterious man, clothed in bright orange and white.
Back on Level 4, Hannyabal regrets being tricked by Bentham who had assumed Nami's form, as he dangles bound and gagged helplessly from the ceiling of a nearby storeroom.
Bentham awakes to find himself not in a frozen wasteland, but at a lively party populated by a variety of colorful okamas. Bewildered, he is approached by a woman dressed in the same orange and white as the man who saved them from the cold. The woman introduces herself as Inazuma and tells Bentham that all his questions will be shortly answered. Suddenly a show starts, on the nearby stage a large man dressed in skimpy feminine clothes and sporting a large purple afro welcomes Bentham to the paradise of Level 5.5, The New Kama Land. He reveals that they are in a sanctuary for escaped prisoners, unknown to the prison staff. As the show livens up, Bentham realizes that this man is none other than the former Queen of the Kamabakka Kingdom, the miracle worker he had been searching for, Emporio Ivankov.

While Ivankov is dancing around and joking with his followers, Bellett interrupts and declares that his father, once a king, one day paid a visit to Kamabakka Kingdom - and came back an okama! Because of this, the king's country and family were ruined, and his son was reduced from his princely state to a mere pirate. He fires his handheld cannon in vengeance, but Ivankov uses his Death Wink to repel the cannonball back at him, he then injects the burly man with female hormones and transforms him into a sexy female lady with huge female features. The intruder flees in embarrassment. After witnessing this "miracle", Bentham begs Ivankov to save Luffy. Ivankov leads Bentham down a deserted corridor and says the only reason he helped them was because Luffy, writhing in pain, begged them to save his friend earlier. He has been under treatment for 10 hours.
Meanwhile on Level 5, Buggy and Galdino are seen running away from wolves on stilts made from wax. Ivankov and Bentham arrive outside a door that has been chained shut, through which Luffy's screams of agony can be heard. Ivankov informs Bentham that Luffy still has 2 more days of treatment to endure. Meanwhile Luffy, chained down inside the chamber, recalls the memory of himself and Ace as children laughing and talking by a cliff overlooking the ocean. At the end it is declared that only 16 hours are left until Ace's execution.

Outside the treatment room, Bentham hears that it would take a miracle to save Luffy's life over his crying in agony. Ivankov advises Bentham to pray for their friend's survival. At the bar, Ivankov reveals he ate the Horm-Horm Fruit so he can alter a person's hormones, changing their skin, temperature and sex. Bentham learns that Ivankov must have done that to a previous intruder and is surprised New Kama Land is a paradise beneath Impel Down. The New Kama "Queen" informs his people that all they have to do is watch out for the dangers of Impel Down. They had also hacked into a Den Den Mushi so they can monitor the actions outside. A prisoner with Devil Fruit abilities dug his way to the area that is now New Kama Land between Levels 5 and 6. Level 6 is where the more dangerous criminals; It is called the Eternal Hell. Ivankov explains that years ago, Shiryu was once a tough Impel Down guard and more troublesome. Shiryu of the Rain killed many prisoners in his bloodlust, and was scolded by Magellan. Shiryu didn't care, but the warden worries it will disgrace Impel Down, so he placed him under arrest in the darkest corners of Level 6. Among other prisoners is Catarina Devon a dangerous woman, Sanjuan Wolf the Great Battleship, and the drinker Vasco Shot. Crocodile is also being held at Level 6. Even when he was once a Baroque Works agent, Bentham believed in friendship. A former Shichibukai is also being held and finally, Ace, whom Luffy was trying to save.
At 3 P.M., Ace will be transferred to Marine Headquarters for execution. Luffy needs two more days to recover and by then, Ace will be executed. Bentham gets angry wanting to wait for Luffy's recovery. As Luffy continues to cry, the former Baroque Works agent begs for Luffy to hang on. The New Kama residents check on Bentham who is cheering for his friend. Meanwhile, Sadi-Chan is angry at her beasts for not finding Luffy and doubles the search. More New Kama residents gather at Luffy's treatment room outside to watch Bentham tearfully cheering. Soon, Bentham drops. The New Kama move to help Bentham, but Ivankov orders that the ballerina cross-dresser do what he wishes. If the cheers are ineffective, Luffy may not survive. With their limits nearing, the New Kama Queen says it's what it takes to make miracles. For ten hours, Luffy has been fighting for life, so Bentham bangs on the door not wanting to lose his friend. In addition to Bentham, the New Kama residents begin to cheer Luffy on.
At the Warden's office, Magellan is informed that Luffy disappeared from Level 5. Hannyabal is tied up half-naked. Outside, Marine ships gather. The cheering for Luffy continues, while Jinbe tells Ace that Hancock is "pulling his leg". Willing to accept his fate, Ace tells the fish-man about his brother's recklessness and stubbornness. At that moment, the guards inform Ace the time for execution draws near. At the treatment room, blood seeps out of Luffy's room, and everyone thinks the treatment failed after 20 hours; Luffy is dead. The New Kama residents cry, but Luffy bursts out with his stomach gurgling. He yells for food. Everyone cheers for Luffy's recovery, even though the treatment shouldn't have taken a day. It is now time for Ace's transfer to Marine Headquarters to begin, while the prisoners gather food to Luffy. Ivankov admires the boy's vitality. Luffy has finally recovered from the poison with his yell echoing through the prison.

While Luffy is being cheered on by the crowd, Mr. 2 faints. The reason why is not because of his wounds but the way he cheered Luffy on while he was screaming. Later on, Emporio Ivankov discovers that Bon Kurei came to rescue him, but declares it is not the proper time to break out yet since the Revolutionary, Monkey D. Dragon, has not made his move yet.
Luffy tells Iva-chan that Dragon is his father. After Ivankov give his speech, he finally realizes that Luffy just said that he is the son of the Revolutionary. He is thrown back by surprise. Then he asks where Luffy is from. Luffy replies by saying that he is from East Blue. Ivankov gasps and remembers how Dragon always used to face the east direction wherever they were. He then infers that if Luffy is Dragon's son then so is Portgas D. Ace.
Ivankov then declares that he is a friend of Dragon and that is the reason why he was arrested. He will support Luffy whether he likes it or not because he cannot see his friend's own son die in front of him. After Luffy faints, Ivankov injects Energy Hormones into Luffy with his Horu Horu no Mi ability. Later on, Luffy, Ivankov and Inazuma are seen running across level 5 and entering level 6.
Meanwhile, Magellan takes Ace to Marineford, where his execution shall be held. Also, outside Impel Down the Marine Vice Admiral Onigumo is waiting outside for Ace and Magellan. At the end it is declared that only 6 hours are left until Ace's execution.

As Luffy made his way to Level 6 with Inazuma and Emporio Ivankov, they were attacked by traps. As they survived the traps, Ivankov used his ability to gender swap a male guard into his true self. In appreciation, she showed the three prisoners the way to Ace's cage, only to find Jinbe and a pair of empty shackles in there. As the Fish-Man yelled to Luffy to get to the elevator as he could make it in time, the three prisoners were too late. Luffy was attacked by a spiky object in the elevator shaft. As they headed back to Level 5 the staircase was shut off with bars, leaving no exit. To make matters worse, Hannyabal ordered to put sleeping gas in Level 6. Inazuma showed off his powers and saves the three from falling asleep and getting captured. Meanwhile Ace, as he made things worse for himself by rebelling, was pinned down by Magellan. Ace was then transferred to Onigumo, who personally brought Ace to his execution ground. Meanwhile on Level 3, Buggy and Galdino were being attacked by the Sphinx. In that same moment, Luffy met an old enemy back at Level 6, Crocodile.

Luffy, Ivankov and Inazuma encounter an old enemy of Luffy -- Crocodile. Crocodile wants to join them, saying he can create an escape passage in the ceiling with his devil fruit powers. Luffy immediately declines when he remembers who Crocodile is and what he did to Vivi. Crocodile says he has no more interest in the country of Alabasta. Ivankov accepts his offer, telling all of them that he knows a weakness of Crocodile. Then, from behind, Jinbe asks Luffy if he could join too, willing to sacrifice himself to rescue Ace. Inazuma opens up their handcuffs with his powers, and the two are out.
The five prisoners get up to level 5, using Crocodile's ability. They gather the New Kama army (including Bentham). Crocodile, Jinbe, and Luffy, who headed up earlier, are already at level four. The three of them attack the Impel Down guards. As the guards are down, Crocodile heads up in the direction of one particular cell, the one holding his former subordinate, Daz Bonez. Meanwhile, Ace is already on the Marine warship, being transferred to his execution ground. Also, Buggy and Galdino are hiding at level 2.

Buggy and Galdino are hiding from the guards at Level 2. After making sure that there are no guards left, they go around opening cells and letting prisoners free so that they can create a riot. At Level 4, New Kama citizens storm up the stairs. The escapees (Luffy, Jinbe, Crocodile, Ivankov, Inazuma, Bon Kurei and Daz Bonez) attack the guards, trying to get to Level 3. Ivankov and Luffy throw the guards in the lake of fire. In one of the jailer rooms, Hannyabal freaks out, losing his chances to be Chief Warden.
Meanwhile, Ace is taken into custody by Onigumo, getting his last chance to see the sky. Back at Level 4, the escapees throw more guards into the ocean of flames.
At the main entrance, the Blackbeard Pirates enter Impel Down; sucking down guards and gates, to enter the Great Prison. At Level 2, many of the rioters are being poisoned by Magellan. Magellan decides to let Shiryu out of his cell, to defeat Blackbeard and his crew, while Magellan himself gets rid of the escapees at Level 4.

There is a riot at level 4, and the Jailer Beasts fight the Newkama army. But then, the six strongest fighters of the Newkama set up their plan to take out the Jailer Beasts. As they shoot down the Jailer Beasts, they fail in ways of power, and the enemies break free. Then the escapees Luffy, Crocodile and Jinbe go head on at the Jailer Beasts Minokoala, Minorhinoceros and Minozebra. Emporio Ivankov goes face to face with Sadi and the Blugori of Saldeath. Daz Bonez and Inazuma team up, taking out guards on their way following Luffy and co.
Back at level 2, Buggy and Galdino have no return as they are blocked by Magellan's poison. Impel Down gets even more disgraced as the Blackbeard Pirates cause a scene at level 1, which Shiryu must overpower. Meanwhile at level 4, Hannyabal gets serious, going straight ahead at Luffy.

The door to level 3 opens up, only for Hannyabal to come out. Inazuma and Luffy look at him surprised, only for Hannyabal to tell the break-in pirate he will not allow "scum" like him to travel on the seas. Hannyabal and Luffy get in a serious fight, which seems uneven as Luffy is much stronger than Hannyabal. Hannyabal receives a Jet Gatling to the face. As he lies on the ground he reminisces about his first day as a jailer. He remembers the sexy pirate Olive, who charms Hannyabal and knocks him out, only for Magellan to lock her up. Back in the present, Hannyabal stands up and grabs Luffy, though Luffy pushes him away. He pledges to the escapees: that there is no way he'd allow their escape, only to get stomped down by the arrival of Marshall D. Teach. Hannyabal falls unconscious, then Jinbe says Teach's nickname: Blackbeard. Luffy remembers Ace saying something about going after Blackbeard, and wanting to capture him. Teach then states that if it wasn't for Ace it would be Luffy heading for execution. Luffy becomes infuriated, and tells Blackbeard he will kill him. Using Gear 2, Luffy hits Blackbeard with Jet Pistol.

Luffy is furious, punching Blackbeard, making the latter fly into the wall. Blackbeard takes revenge and activates Kurouzu, making Luffy fly to his hand. He then grabs the pirate captain and throws him into the ground, which causes blood to drip from his mouth, much to the surprise of Crocodile. Jinbe sees Luffy getting up, only to strike him down and talk about his main priority: Ace. Blackbeard sees Luffy leave, telling him Skypiea and One Piece exists.
Shortly after, Minotaurus comes from the level 3 staircase, punching the New Kama and the level 4 prisoners rioting down the stairs. As Minotaurus enters level 4, Luffy steps right into him, causing others to warn him. Jinbe replies that they should let him be, as he is infuriated. He then stands still, face to face with the Jailer Beast, only to punch him right into the other walls. The two break-in crews separate, only for Luffy and co. to get to level 3.
In between the actions, Emporio Ivankov battled Sadi, and caused her huge embarrassment when 'Okamakov' used the whip from Sadi-chan to tie her up and hang her on the ceiling. Magellan finds her, telling his following guards to set her loose. He then goes on, only to find the Blackbeard Pirates. As infuriated as he is, he does not take time to give Blackbeard a speech, and primarily used his Hydra. The Blackbeard Pirates get poisoned, screaming from Hellish suffering. Magellan goes on, to the staircase of level 3, only to find the unconscious Hannyabal, who he tells in his mind is his successor. He then angrily screams Luffy's name, telling him that he will not escape.

The prisoners race through Level 3 just as Magellan's Hydra catches up poisoning some. Bentham advises not to look back. Magellan walks through, enraged and covered in poison. The prisoners climb the stairway to Level 2. After the prisoners make it, Ivankov mourns those who failed. Inazuma and Ivankov stand at the ready with the former using Great Scissors to cut through the staircase and buy some time to escape. With the staircase cut to pieces, it would seem Magellan has no access to the second level.
Magellan roars his Hydra at Ivankov declaring his methods suicidal. The "queen" believes the warden is slow and changes to his male form declaring him stupid, before firing a Death Wink. It dissolves a dragon head, but the next Hydra head comes out of the warden's back and a third one appear. Magellan gloats that even if Luffy has time, there is no way out. Ivankov then decides to show some New Kama Kempo and shoots some energy balls then dares the warden to fight.
At Level 2, the Wild Beasts begin taking down some prisoners. Luffy seems worried that Magellan would strangely not follow him, but Bentham explains that Ivankov is staying behind to hold the warden off. Luffy wishes to go back, but Bentham insists he keep moving. Crocodile and Jinbe believe getting out might be too easy as someone is releasing them. Buggy liberates some prisoners while Galdino hands weapons to the prisoners. They take down some guards with Buggy determined to get to the top level.
Soon, Buggy's party make it to Level 1. Luffy's party continue their ascent as they make their way to Level 2. On Level 3, Ivankov is fighting bravely against Magellan. Sadi feels intense pain in her spine cursing Ivankov's actions demanding vengeance. She orders the downed demon beast guards to give chase. Shiryu severs communications so no one will know about the transpiring events.
With Impel Down surrounded by prison and navy ships, Jinbe hopes to hijack one so they can make it to Marineford before Ace's capital punishment.
Meanwhile, Ivankov feels agonized from the poison that just touched his face, complaining how much it hurts, but this was all a ruse as Ivankov's thick mascara protected his face from the poison. He dodges another poison attack and winks at Magellan's Hydra again and again with the warden shooting a Venom Blowfish. Ivankov complains about his shoots laces coming loose, but he tricks the warden again, as his shoes are laceless. Magellan angrily decides to end the fight immediately, as Ivankov uses the Hair Removal Fist.
Topside, Inazuma spots Magellan using Venom Road to get to Level 2 and had beaten Ivankov. Sensing despair, Inazuma does a Keep Out, sending parts of the floor at Magellan, but he blocks them.
Buggy and his party flee from the demon guards. He then bumps into a big man and falls. Galdino assures if he is ok while Buggy gets angry at the person he bumped into and looks up, only to be surprised that it is Crocodile. Crocodile rudely asks how Galdino got here, which makes him cry. Just then, Jinbe and Luffy are reported to have beaten the demon guards. This surprises Buggy and Galdino even more. When Luffy turns around and sees the two, he is happy that they are safe. More prisoners run and Buggy is horrified at the news that they are perverts. Bentham later rushes in and spin kicks Galdino and Buggy for calling them perverts and abandoning them. Then, the prisoners from Level 4 arrive with the guards surprised and horrified.
Just then, Magellan deploys a Hydra frightening the prisoners. Luffy fears for the worst happening to Inazuma and Ivankov.

Magellan reaches Level 2 and Luffy heads back to avenge the fallen Inazuma and Ivankov. He is stopped by Bentham, who reminds him what happened last time he tried to battle the Chief Warden. Magellan sends a Hydra at the escapees. Just before Luffy is poisoned a second time, Galdino shows up and uses a Candle Wall to block the attack. Crocodile comments Mr. 3 is not so useless after all. Jinbe overhears the conversation between Magellan and some guards. Bentham and Daz Bonez team up and take down the guards with ease. Meanwhile, Luffy and Galdino team up with some escapees who shoot Magellan. Although the bullets just barrage through him (though not being a Logia, but a Paramecia), Magellan gets hurt. Galdino places wax armor around Luffy's hands and feet so the latter can finally attack Magellan. The two get in a fight between venom and wax.
At Level 1, Buggy takes the rioting prisoners outside, only to see the plan fail right before their eyes. Jinbe shows up and explains to the prisoners about the warships not being too far away. He takes a door and throws it in the water. Daz Bonez, Crocodile, and Buggy jump on the made platform and get driven by Jinbe to the warships. After being attacked by the ships, Buggy thought that Jinbe was a traitor. Jinbe throws the ships in the air with Fish-Man Jujutsu, and the three land on one warship. Ready to battle, they attack their opponents. Back at Level 2, Luffy's and Magellan's fists clash, and Magellan asks Luffy if he remembered what happened last battle (Magellan defeated Luffy last battle), Luffy said he does not. The episode ends when Magellan says "Then I will not let you forget".

Back at Level 3, Ivankov lies seemingly dead from the poison, but his fingers twitch and extend his claws. On a Marine ship, Crocodile and Daz Bonez stand before some marines thinking they don't know their limits, The captain orders them thrown overboard, but then, a whirlpool is formed in the water. And Jinbe comes out using a Spear Wave to blast a section of the ship, hitting some marines square-on. Crocodile advises his ally to watch his aim as they wish to use the ship to escape Impel Down.
Meanwhile, Luffy continues his fight with Magellan using a Gum-Gum Champion Gatling breaking through a Hydra with ease and has the advantage on the warden. With Magellan knocked back, he drops to his knees infuriated. The prisoners fire more rounds at the warden again to no effect. Magellan says he ordered the ships to disperse leaving no way to escape, but Luffy insists that Jinbe will get a ship to escape on. Determined to finish things once and for all, Magellan covers himself in red poison. Luffy tries a Gum-Gum Champion Stamp, but the attack has no effect, as the wax will easily wilt forcing Galdino to relieve the wax from Luffy. Magellan uses his new poison to melt through the poison walls and calls his new form Venom Demon, unleashing a massive glob of poison with skulls around it. Magellan slams the Venom Demon on some prisoners with Hell's Judgement, poisoning some prisoners who are left behind to die. The poison blob then continues its pursuit. Galdino worries the poison will melt through rock like acid.
Somewhere on Level 1, Bentham cheers Luffy on while he glares at some prisoners who complain about the fog. If the marines delay the pirates long enough, there is no hope of escape. Magellan could arrive any minute. Bentham implores Jinbe to hurry. Underwater, Jinbe spots some boats. On one ship, Crocodile uses his sand abilities to cut some marines, and drains some oxygen from some. Daz Bonez uses his Dice-Dice abilities to fight some marines who recognize him from the West Blue. As more marines are blasted of the ship by Crocodile's Sables tornado, a marine officer wants the ship sunk by cannon fire. Suddenly, Jinbe's Fish-Man Karate blasts the marines to keep them busy. Luffy's party continues to flee with the Venom Demon closing in. Luffy then calls out to any prisoners ordering them to flee. 
As there is no ship in sight, there is no way of telling what is happening. Ivankov carries the poisoned Inazuma feeling exhausted to take another step. Soon, he fires a Hell Wink blasting his way to Level 1, shocking both the prisoners and Magellan. Bentham cries with joy that both Ivankov and Inazuma alive and well, while Galdino hands Luffy a Den den Mushi to call Jinbe. With almost no more places to hide, Luffy is told to jump into the water. Galdino knows the Devil Fruit prisoners will die if they jump into the water. Magellan believes the Sea Kings will eat the prisoners in the water. Luffy goes into Third Gear with Galdino setting a Candle wall up. 
With the situation turning bad, Luffy uses a Gum-Gum Giant Stamp to blow Magellan away, before shrinking down to size as usual. Still, the Venom Demon gives chase, while Luffy tries to wake Ivankov up. The "queen" wake sup thinking the shrunken Luffy to be a baby. Just when all hope has faded, Luffy orders to prisoners to grab onto Ivankov's head, who fires a Hell Wink, blowing the prisoners outside. Magellan looks on in shock. Later, a flock of sharks appear under some Navy boats. Then, Luffy sees that his party landed on something soft. A flock of whale sharks swim through with the Impel Down warden looking perplexed as the prisoners have landed on the flock.

The whale sharks hop happily through the water and Jinbe tells them to carry the ex-prisoners to his newly captured Marine ship. The whale sharks form a line while Luffy and the others jump across one by one until they reach the ship. The prisoners celebrate their victory, but Jinbe says there's one more obstacle to freedom. As the prisoners thank the whale sharks, Ivankov wants to treat Inazuma checking for medical supplies. The prisoners insult Magellan thanking Buggy for their freedom. Desperate, Magellan wants a ship to chase the pirates down determined to carry out their death sentence.
Suddenly, Marine ships open fire on the ship being used by the prisoners. With so many Marine ships shooting at them, Jinbe wants to tell that high-ranking officers are being summoned to Marineford, but the enemy won't let them escape to easily as the Gates of Justice won't easily open. Buggy fears they will crash, but the fish-man wants to keep sailing without stopping. More cannonballs rain down as Crocodile and Buggy wish to protect the ship. Crocodile and Luffy repel some cannonballs but the situation is growing worse by the second. It would seem there is no way out.
The gate can only be controlled from inside Impel Down just as the gate itself begins to open. The Marines are horrified that the prisoner's ship managed to break free. As Magellan is about to board a ship, he sees the gates opening without his authorization. Inside, Magellan has supposedly ordered the gates opened and wants it closed after the prisoners make it through. The Marines are confused as the warden has disappeared back inside and has spotted an imposter.
Jinbe felt this was possible, because Bentham stayed behind to open the Gates of Justice. Magellan angrily orders the ship closed, but then the second Magellan wants the gate to stay open. A Marine presses a button, then Bentham uses Memoirs of a Desert Kingdom to smash the controls so the guards can't stop the escaping ship.
With the gate about to close, Luffy senses that Bentham must have stayed behind and if it weren't for his help, they would have died. Jinbe regrets that they lost a couple of hundred prisoners in the escape attempt. He thinks back to how Bentham wanted to open the gate without question as swans never die nor say goodbye.
While baby Den Den Mushis have limited connection, they will be cut off once the gates shut.
Inside, the guards realize that Bentham posed as Hannyabal and mocked the warden himself. Luffy tries to contact Bentham remembering the last time he saved the Straw Hat crew. Luffy had hoped there would be another way as they wanted to break out together. The prisoners frantically try to contact Bentham with no success while Galdino calls out to Mr. 2 in sadness. With the gates about to close, Luffy insists it's time to go thanking his friend.
On his end, Bentham cries out to Luffy telling him to save Ace now that he has lots of friends to help him. He also looks back on the time he spent with Luffy in the prison and how he saved him. With the gates closed, the prisoners have escape thanking Bentham for his heroic sacrifice. Bentham gloats that even in hell, the flower of friendship blooms. He also vows to make the flower bloom again before charging at Magellan while the prisoners cry. As Magellan thrusts his hand asking for any final words, Bentham vows to meet his friends again in the Garden of Oh Come My Way.
In one fell swoop, the prisoners that had escaped were 241. With Ace's execution only four hours away, a flower petal rests on the water.

On Level 4, Shiryu saves Blackbeard and his crew by giving them antidotes to Magellan's poison and joins the Blackbeard Pirates.
The Impel Down escapees continue their journey aboard the stolen Marine ship. Buggy and the prisoners celebrate their escape while the Newkama patiently wait for Inazuma's recovery as advised by Ivankov. Meanwhile, Luffy and Mr. 3 look across the ocean while crying and talking about Mr. 2. A few other Newkama join their sentiment. Buggy approaches them and encourages them to celebrate their freedom. He tactlessly suggests that they could make it a funeral for Mr. 2 which earns him a punch from Luffy, the latter stating that they aren't sure if Mr. 2's had died. They banter before Luffy punches Buggy once more and climbs towards the helm where Jinbe is steering. 
The fishman thanks Luffy for giving him a chance to save Ace. Buggy follows Luffy and they continue quarreling while Jinbe formally introduces himself to Luffy, mentioning that he is currently a Warlord of the Sea who is ready to resign from the position. He confidently announces that they should unleash Hell at the Marine headquarters and save Ace so Mr. 2's effort will not be wasted. Both Buggy and Luffy scream and fall from surprise upon hearing the statement. The prisoners and the Newkama approach upon hearing their exclamation. Luffy announces his surprise from the fact that Jinbe is a Warlord which prompts the said Warlord to apologize for the delayed introduction. Meanwhile, Buggy is mortified upon hearing that their destination is the Marine headquarters. Jinbe confirms this while Crocodile explains that the ship is currently riding the government-exclusive Tarai Current and their only possible destinations are Enies Lobby or the Marine Headquarters. He reveals that the only reason they escaped is to join the impending war. Both Buggy and Mr. 3 clutch Jinbe, asking him to stop the ship while the prisoners cry out in despair. An okama states that everyone from Newkama land knew about this. Out of nowhere, they hear the sound of a Den Den Mushi ringing which piques everyone's attention. They locate it inside the ship's mast and Luffy picks it up. The Marine officer on the line announces that they have identified the two main perpetrators for the break-out: Luffy and Buggy. The escapees are surprised that Buggy gets priority over the Warlord of the Sea. The Marine continues speaking, revealing Buggy's past as a crew member of the Roger Pirates as well as his connection to Shanks. The Marine officer states that they have yet to find a reason but concludes that he must have the same goal as Luffy: to save Ace. Trying to discourage the escapees from continuing, he adds that the Gates of Justice to Marine Headquarters will not open for pirates so there would be no escape. Luffy angrily declares that he will save Ace before slamming down the receiver.

As Luffy's ship heads to the Marine Headquarters, the scene shifts to a point some time in the past. Nami is still on Weatheria. She asks the old man how many days are left till they reach the Sabaody Archipelago, to which he replies that the island is slowly heading towards the Sabaody Archipelago at a pace determined by the winds. The old man agrees to give her a ride to the blue sea, as he also needs money so he can make 'business'. He finds an island that is completely dry and dying, and tells the residents he will make it rain if they pay him 100,000,000. He realizes that it's too high and lowers it to a hundred. Nami sees the old man demonstrate his ability to summon large rains by storing thunderstorms in soap bubbles. She agrees to stay on the island to learn more until they reach the archipelago.
Meanwhile, Franky is still acting like a gentleman under the effects of the tea, and Kitton wonders when cola will arrive to return him to normal. Franky is attacked by several cyborgs in the forest, causing the tea in him to bubble over and restoring his usual personality, which enables him to defeat the cyborgs with ease. Franky learns that Dr. Vegapunk, who modified Kuma, made the cyborgs, and reaches a house with Vegapunk's name on it, triggering an alarm as he goes in.

Sanji is chased by okamas to Caroline - the queen's stand in. Sanji agrees to fight Caroline, Kamabakka's strongest warrior, in return for passage from the island. Sanji fights in a dress (Kamabakka terms) and is embarrassed because Caroline was looking at his underwear while fighting. After he realized that, he started kicking lower - with taunts from Caroline. "She" then picked him up and threw him up, and he became scared like a girl. He starts thinking that he is losing himself, and loses the fight. He then becomes an okama and is seen running with the okamas on the beach fully turned into an okama: he has make up on, extensions, nail polish, and shoes in his hands. He addresses Nami and Robin and says that if they meet again, he is sure that they will become very good "friends".
Chopper tends to the wounds of a giant baby bird that fell out of its nest and nursed it back to health and collects food for it. He makes a promise with the bird that it will fly him to the Sabaody Archipelago when it has grown. Chopper wakes up to find that the chick's missing, so he searches for the chick. After he finds the chick, they are both spotted and chased by natives. After running to a dead end in a cliff, they are saved by a group of giant birds which rescue the chick and toss Chopper off the cliff. Chopper watches as the birds and natives fight, wondering why they cannot just get along.

On Tequila Wolf, a bridge is being constructed. At the Prison Tower, a guard asks how the Seastone Armlets fit on Robin, but Robin doesn't seem to care and is resisting interrogation. The guards find out she sank six ships. They worry she could wipe out the entire country. Another guard reports the delay in the construction and is told scale back the meals to one-a-day. As more laborers begin to resist, the guards are more worried about Robin. Outside, the slaves are working against their will. Soran serves a meal to cruel guards and is tripped. She tries to tend to another man who had just fainted, but a guard whips her. When the slaves begin to resist, the Tequila Wolf guards threaten to send them to the Prison Tower, where Robin is being held. 
At the tower, Robin is served warm seawater, and later, the guards would turn her over to the World Government. At dinner, the female slaves spot the informant had turned Robin in. Soran realizes the lady snitched Robin to save them. Soran confronts the slave who won't share the present the guard gave her, not feeling sorry for her actions. But, she gives the chocolate bar to Soran anyway and gives into tears. The blonde little slave hopes to give the chocolate bar to Robin. As more slaves go back to work, Robin is presented her meal and is impatient for more questioning. Just then, an old slave hears her. Robin thinks back on the horrific outcome of the adventure on Sabaody and feels she can't waste any more time, even if she wishes to amputate her arms. Outside, Soran sets some bricks and sneaks off to the tower which is under heavy guard. Suddenly, an explosion rocks the area and a group of warriors march through Tequila Wolf shooting up the place. When the guards leave the tower entrance, Soran climbs onto the tower and thanks Robin for helping her. Suddenly, a guard spots her. The head guard learns of the disturbance and had given no such order to move the guards.
In the tower, Soran meets up with Robin. The guard reveals himself as a member of the Revolutionary Army. The elderly prisoner is freed and asks for Robin to be freed. The guards head back to the tower and try to gun Robin down, but she uses multiple arms and Clutch to break their bones. The elder finally recognizes Robin and she owes the slaves a debt to them. As Robin walks off, Soran realizes the former has a nice name. Meanwhile, enroute to Marineford, Jinbe sees Luffy needs some rest but he says he is fine. The Fishman worries they might be too late to save Ace. With the Vivre Card flickering, Luffy looks ahead. On Greenstone Island, Usopp runs from a large walking sunflower and Heracles announces his name. Usopp begs for help, but the armored hero is tired. After some talking, Heracles stands up and winds up punching the Straw Hat sniper right into the large flower monster. Heracles also takes the blunt and all three go flying. The two recover while Usopp senses the flowers are targeting only him. Suddenly, huge insects appear and the armored warrior knocks them out.
Heracles then suggests that Usopp eat up. Walking through a forest, Usopp sees the forest is full of food, like Ham Fruits. The sniper begins to eat his fill as Heracles knows the plants won't eat Usopp if he does so, he also suggests exercise. The armored hero hears more eating and Usopp can't control his appetite. By the time they meet up, Usopp has become morbidly obese and Heracles tells he needs to burn the calories. Suddenly, the island rocks and a large mouth opens. The two race up and Usopp begins to fall in. Suddenly, ramen rains down and Usopp eats his way to safety. The monstrous mouth burps. Heracles realizes that fat people will likely be eaten and begins to introduce himself.

Luffy watches Ace's Vivre card as it continues to burn and starts a conversation with Jinbe. He recalls how both of them had always been together, how they always ate together, slept together, and even tested their skills together.
There is then a flashback of when Luffy and Ace met each other at Arabasta. It shows Ace expressing how he was part of the Whitebeard Pirates, and how the mark on his back was his pride. Ace tells Luffy that Whitebeard was the strongest pirate that he has ever met, and wants to make him Pirate King, not Luffy. With Luffy bluntly stating that he will just have to fight Whitebeard. The scene switches to when Ace was on Luffy's ship, with Luffy asking him if he wanted to join his crew and Ace's explaining how he was hunting down Blackbeard. The scene switches again, to when Ace and Luffy part ways in Arabasta, and where Ace gives Luffy his Vivre card. Another memory appears of when Luffy met Blackbeard for the first time in Mock Town, arguing on whether the pie tasted good or not. Which continues to the fighting with Bellamy, the customers laughing at their belief of Sky Island, and Blackbeard claiming that a pirate's dream is everlasting. Luffy is then in the Kuja palace, showing his disbelief of the war that was to commence and how Ace is sentenced to execution. Continuing on with the flashbacks, Luffy is in Impel Down and meets Blackbeard, attempting to strike him but to be stopped by Jinbe. It is there that Blackbeard explains how capturing Ace would allow him to become a Shichibukai and how Luffy should be thanking his brother for interfering, or else he would have captured Luffy instead.
Back to the present, Jinbe talks about how Ace's hunt for Blackbeard began. On the other hand, the Marines assembling at the bay, where Ace is locked up. Ace recalls the fight he had with Blackbeard and his defeat. The episode ends with Ace locked up and gritting his teeth, three hours prior to his execution.

On the stolen Marine boat, the pirates talk about their latest meal and Buggy appears before Jinbe and Luffy. He asks how much longer before they arrive at Marineford and is ignored and Buggy wants to bring down Marine Headquarters. He is also confident the Marines and the Shichibukai are no match for him.
At Marineford, two Marines call out to the Shichibukai about to leave Marie Jois. Moria calls Whitebeard a loon and with three hours until the execution, the Marines call for the Shichibukai with the contingency against the Whitebeard Pirates.
Kuma had fought the Straw Hats before on Thriller Bark and Sabaody and won and would never meet Luffy again. Doflamingo says that Mihawk wants to get his hands dirty. Mihawk had fought Don Krieg's crew as well as Zoro at Baratie in the East Blue. After his and Zoro's intense duel, the black-coated Shichibukai won. After his defeat, Zoro was spared and was dared to surpass Mihawk himself.
Moria calls he needs to be in a hurry and seeks to steal the shadows of Whitebeard's alliance. Like Kuma, he too had fought the Straw Hats at Thriller Bark but suffered a grueling defeat against Luffy's Third Gear. When Doflamingo and Hancock are called out, the latter had met with Luffy and hounded Momonga's party. She grew to fall in love with Luffy after he had bested her sisters, Marigold and Sandersonia.
As Hancock hopes for Luffy's safety, Donquixote Doflamingo has yet to meet Luffy's crew. He had encountered Bellamy's crew in Mock Town and puppeteered Sarquiss into submission before Bellamy swore loyalty. He wants to build a new age for the more stronger pirates and laughed maniacally at his intent. The extent of his strength remains to be seen.
Elsewhere in Sengoku's building, Aokiji is awoken by a Marine. He had fought the Straw Hats before using his ice abilities and nearly executed Nico Robin. Luffy bought time for the rest of the crew to get Robin to safety despite the admiral's overwhelming ability. In the present, it is not lunch time, as Aokiji was simply joking.
Kizaru is called in without lunch. He had fought the Straw Hats as Sabaody leaving the crew with horrific results. Rayleigh bravely delayed Zoro's execution and fought the light admiral. On his way, Kizaru knows he must put duty ahead of the meals.
In Sengoku's office, the enigmatic Akainu stands before his superior. With the execution three hours away, the guards are to take Ace to the scaffold.

With the execution three hours away, Ace unchained from the wall. He looks down thinking of his childhood with Luffy and walks down the hallway with the guards holding him tight. He looks up the long stairway and climbs the stairs.
In the South Blue, the civilians worry that Whitebeard will reach Marineford before long. As Whitebeard is widely known throughout the years, an elderly woman reads the newspapers that Marineford has tightened security. In the East Blue, a shepherd senses that Marineford is impenetrable, but one civilian says the fort was attacked before, 20 years ago by Shiki the Golden Lion, leaving much the headquarters in ruin. The battle today would be far worse.
In the North Blue, a man refuses to open his bar at the time of war. In the West Blue, some bar patrons talk about the time they saw Whitebeard. Somewhere in the Grand Line, some kids sing about Whitebeard while one woman prays for salvation.
At Marineford, the city is vacated to prepare for the intense war with Whitebeard as the civilians have been evacuated to the Sabaody Archipelago. The civilians wait to watch Ace's capital punishment with journalists ready to spread the news. A reporter named Reuder wonders if Whitebeard wants a war.
Every ship sent to find Whitebeard has been sunk.
In the main building, Garp bangs Sengoku's desk but Sengoku reminds him that Ace's execution is for the good of the world. The responsibility is on Garp's shoulders, but he simply smiles and walks out.
Marineford is surrounded by fifty Marine ships and one-hundred thousand Marine soldiers at the docks. The execution is to take three hours and hope it will be over. There are also cannons set up to bombard enemies, and finally, the Shichibukai stand at the ready. Finally, the three admirals arrive to take their seats and guard the scaffold, Aokiji, Akainu and Kizaru. The massive force of justice is gathered to ensure Ace is executed no matter what.
As Ace continues to climb the stairs, he remembers when he told Luffy to enjoy life without regret and hoped to head out to sea free than anyone else. He arrives outside over the catcalls of the marines.
On the hijacked Marine ship, Luffy sees the Gates of Justice and calls to Jinbei. The fish-man sees that the gate is shut tight and wonders how to get through. Buggy announces his intentions to conquer the world by taking down Marine Headquarters, killing Whitebeard and become the new Pirate King.
Ace sees the scaffold and walks towards it. The crowd at Sabaody see the action that is intensifying. Any wrong move could trigger the war. The Fire Fist pirate kneels on the scaffold and two swords prepare to finally execute him. Sengoku and Garp walk to the scaffold as well, and the former brings a Den Den Mushi at Ace's side. He announces something shocking; Portgas D. Ace, who is to be executed, needs to give out the name of his father. Ace says his father's name is Whitebeard, but the admiral says that thanks to Cipher Pol, they found out about Ace's father, but not his mother. His biological mother, Portgas D. Rouge, misled the entire world. Ace was born on Batelira in the South Blue. Rouge kept her baby in her womb for 20 months and died after the childbirth.
Years ago, Gol D. Roger told Garp to look after his child.
Sengoku reveals that Ace's biological father is Gol D. Roger, the former Pirate King. The Sabaody crowd watches in shock. Reuder realizes that Roger's bloodline still lives. Ace growls at the revelation.

The people in Sabaody Archipelago reel from the revelation of the identity of Ace's father. Hancock is surprised that Ace is not Luffy's blood brother, Koby and Helmeppo are also confused, as they thought Ace was also Dragon's son.
Garp recalls a moment before Roger's execution when he visited him for the last time. Roger tells Garp he is expecting a child, although he will be dead by the time that child is born. Garp does not understand the point of Roger telling him this. Garp says the woman he is having the child with will be killed for associating with him. But this is the reason why Roger tells Garp specifically, because he knows Garp will protect the child. He explains that an unborn child should not be faulted for his sins. Garp tells him to stop being selfish. But Roger knows and entrusts that Garp will take care of the baby.
On Baterilla, Marines invade the peaceful island. One marine tells the one in charge that the information gathered tells them that Roger stayed on this island "acting un-pirate like. As if he were a father". The leader tells the soldiers to find all the babies who are due within ten months of Roger's incarceration and to investigate them and all the pregnant women as well as kill all the suspicious women. Rouge walks through town taking note of the chaos caused by the marines much to their oblivion. Time passes while she sits on a rocking chair and it cuts back and forth to a marine reporting when children are due that month. They also look into relationships the pregnant women have, whether their marriages are real or not. Rouge tells the baby in her stomach, "Not yet... not yet. You cannot come out yet. I'm sorry, not yet. Not yet...".
It has been ten months since the marines have come to the island and they decide that perhaps there never was a child, that it really was the end of Roger's Age. Soon afterwards, Garp goes to Rouge's home. Rouge gives birth to a baby and while holding onto the child Rouge mentions that Roger said if it was a girl, she was to be named "Anne", and if it was a boy, he was to be named "Ace". So she names him Gol D. Ace. Shortly after Rouge died, exhausted and happy, with a smile on her face.
Garp leaves the island, taking Ace with him then takes him somewhere and tells a person named Dadan that they will take care of the baby. Some years later Garp takes a young Luffy to the same place he left Ace. Explaining that Luffy will be living with Dadan, that he is to get along with them. An older Ace looks at them with slight hostility.
The episode cuts to the scene when Garp visits Ace while he was still locked up in Impel Down. It is reiterated that these unfortunate circumstances happened because he and Luffy both have the blood of an infamous criminal flowing within their veins. And he took the name "Portgas" in honor of his mother who he owes so much, but he wants nothing to do with his father's half. Ace claims his only father is Whitebeard.
Back in the present Tsuru seems to sympathize with Garp who looks upset. Sengoku explains to everyone who is watching that Ace took up his mother's surname and became the pirate captain to the Spade Pirates, while quickly rising strength and reputation. And that was when they realized that Roger's line still lived. But at the same time Whitebeard noticed the same thing and took his old rival's son upon his ship to raise him as the next Pirate King! Ace denies this, the reason he joined Whitebeard's crew was to make Whitebeard the Pirate King. Sengoku interrupts - the only one thinking that is Ace. It made things difficult for the World Government to catch him, since he was now under Whitebeard's protection. And that is the reason why this execution is so important. It symbolises the true end to Gol D. Roger's Age, even if it means all out war with Whitebeard.
Suddenly the Gates of Justice start to open. Luffy and the Impel Down escapees watch in shock and wonder at the opening doors. But, Buggy takes that credit, further cementing him as a great pirate and a supposed "messenger of God" to the escapees. The skies darken as an entire pirate fleet, consisting of forty three ships, emerge from the fog. The marines are baffled as to where they came from since their appearance was so sudden. Among the pirates are some of the most fearsome and powerful from the New World including: Doma, McGuy, Decalvan Brothers, and Squard - all allies of Whitebeard, although there is no sign of Whitebeard himself... The foot soldier marines panic a little and Tsuru snaps in annoyance, not to "look so disgraceful". Ace is shocked that they have all come as well. The marines are told to keep a sharp eye out since Whitebeard can not be too far off, and Doflamingo just feels excited.
Then a bubble bursts in the middle of the headquarters' crescent shaped dock. Tsuru and Garp wonder if perhaps they have miscalculated where the invasion will come from. Waves continue to bubble from the center and Sengoku realizes they must have coated their ship. Suddenly the Moby Dick, Whitebeard's ship, bursts up from under the water.

Three other ships, along with the Moby Dick, have infiltrated the bay. Whitebeard himself from the deck of the Moby Dick, comments that it would be better if his son, Fire Fist Ace, is alright.
Ivankov asks Luffy if Monkey D. Dragon will come and save Ace, as he would never let his son get killed. Luffy replies that although his father is Dragon, Ace's father is in fact Gol D. Roger.
Ace then remembers all the events that led him to being the Whitebeard Pirates' Second Division commander. (Parting with Luffy, his days of him as the captain of the Spade Pirates, a meeting he had with Shanks on a winter island, etc.)
It also shows about his battles with Jinbe and Whitebeard, and him joining the Whitebeard pirates. At first he continues to fight Whitebeard but eventually accepts him as his leader and adopted father and befriends the rest of the Whitebeard pirates. It shows his rise among the crew as he is later promoted to become the Second Division Commander. The flashback ends with him going after Blackbeard (for killing Thatch) against the wishes of Whitebeard, who told him to stay. The episode ends with Ace asking why they came to his rescue even when he disobeyed them, and Whitebeard replies that he is his son.

Ace apologizes that he did not listen to his crew when they warned him not to go after Blackbeard, but they insist that Whitebeard told him to go-that they look after their own. Doflamingo and Moria are excited for battle, but Mihawk and Hancock stay quiet. Hancock is disgusted by the hot headed men, with the exception of Luffy who she prays is alright.
The water levels strangely recede. To this same affect Luffy's ship is pulled back from the Gates of Justice, and Jinbe is the only one who realizes why. Luffy panics, but Jinbe assures him that they'll make it on time, to Buggy's disbelief. In an apparently miraculous turn of events, the water rushes forward pushing them quickly ahead. However a large shadow suddenly looms over the ship.
We cut back to Marineford to a tense standoff between the pirates and marines. The water levels rise, and off in the distance, giant waves are spotted. The waves look like they are about to drown the whole of Marineford, but Aokiji jumps up and freezes them with his Hie Hie no Mi's power, "Ice Age". He attacks Whitebeard with ice arrows that Whitebeard quickly disposes of along with hitting Aokiji. Aokiji breaks into pieces and falls toward the water which he quickly freezes as well. It traps all the ships in the bay, but the pirates use the frozen water as a foothold and charge forth. The marines also start their attack and everything quite quickly dissolves into all out battle, Smoker and Tashigi included. The admirals show their faces, although the men tell Tsuru she can just sit back and relax. She ignores them, telling them it did not matter how far back she went, there was no escaping this fight.
Squard, one of Whitebeard's loyalist supporters, tells his own crew to charge forth. Meanwhile it seems the Seven Warlords are finally ready to get involved. Surprisingly, it is Mihawk who seems ready to jump into battle. It appears he wants to see the distance between Whitebeard and himself. Although there are others, such as Vista who would also like to test themselves against "The World's Greatest Swordsman". Mihawk unsheathes his meito sword, "Yoru" and slashes it at Whitebeard.

Mihawk launches his shockwave towards Whitebeard which is blocked by Jozu with his diamond powers. Right after, the Whitebeard Pirates decide to charge forward to which Sengoku, counters by ordering the marines to shoot them with the front cannons. Just as the Whitebeard Commanders break through, Kizaru amazed at their power, decides that for the battle to end with minimal casualties, the better is to kill Whitebeard as soon as possible, willingly leaving his seat to transport himself before Whitebeard and attacking him with Yasakani no Magatama, which is deflected by Marco on his Phoenix Form. The Marines and Kizaru watch amazed as he took no damage, to which Marco replies he did.
Marco then flies towards Kizaru being attacked by his technique, although to no visible effect. Marco is capable of kicking Kizaru and launch him away, this however does not affect Kizaru at all. And just as he orders the Giant formation to prepare themselves, Jozu orders his crew to get away so that he can break the Ice Floor and launch a massive Ice Block (around 10 times larger than the Giants) which forces Akainu to leave his seat, and destroy the Ice Block using his Dai Funka with minimal effort. He then creates a massive Meteor Shower with his volcanic rocks, which sets the battlefield on fire which greatly scares the watchers at Sabaody Archipelago, destroying one of Whitebeard's ships and attacking Whitebeard himself with it, however this has no effect as Whitebeard uses his Bisento to block it. The Marines then continue to shot their cannons at Whitebeard, destroying 3 of the 4 closest ships in Marineford, with only the Moby Dick remaining intact, as Whitebeard, Marco, Jozu and Vista destroy the cannonballs.
The commanders then full charge defeating the Marines on their way, just as the vice admirals defeat part of the Whitebeard Pirates. The battle is so violent that both Koby and Helmeppo are scared and think it's better to run away. Before they can do it, Little Oars Jr. shows himself up, prompting both Gecko Moria and Donquixote Doflamingo to battle. The episode ends as Oars Jr. slashes one of the Marine Ships, claiming he will not let Ace die.

As Oars Jr. makes his appearance breaking through the marines just as the Shichibukai and the Marines are impressed by his size. The marines then are soon to attack him with cannon balls, which have little to no effect on him. Given that he is such a large Giant, the Giant Squad of the Marines is forced to leave their defensive positions to attack him, but he is fast to repel them temporarily by throwing them a Marine battleship which opens a way for the Whitebeard Pirates through the plaza, and as them attack through the place, one of the pirates is about to attack Koby but he is saved by Rear Admiral Yukimura who tells him "this is no place for the unprepared", to which Koby feels helpless. Vice Admiral Lacroix tries to fight against Oars Jr. but he soon overpowers him. Whitebeard tells him to not "rush to his death" to which Oars Jr. replies "he just wants to save Ace" seeing his determination, Whitebeard orders his pirates to cover Oars Jr. The Giant Squad attacks him but he dispatches one by one with relative ease. Give that they never fought a foe larger and stronger than themselves, they are forced to work together to fight him.
The Whitebeard Pirates are soon to attack Boa Hancock but she easily repels all the attacks using her Slave Arrow to turn her foes into stone. She then attacks everybody Pirate and Marine using her Perfume Femur which instantly turns any part she touches into stone and cracks it. She is then confronted by a Marine who tells her "she attacked Marines too", to which she replies she "just agreed to fight Whitebeard, and not to side with Marines given that all men are the same" while whispering that only "He" is different. Oars Jr. approaches the bay, and Gecko Moria is ready to fight, but before he can make a move Bartholomew Kuma steps in, preparing and launching a large and extremely powerful Ursus Shock which damages Oars Jr. massively and pushing away everything around him.
Oars Jr.'s kasa drops and he sees it on the floor semi-conscious as he remembers how Ace made it for him, which he ended liking very much due to not feeling any heat, rain, or cold in any extreme weather condition. Before falling he tries to attack and take one of the Shichibukai, which prompts him to attack Donquixote Doflamingo who is fast enough to evade the attack, immobilize him with his abilities, and then sever his right leg. Furious about how he damaged his body, Moria tries to finish him soon to use him as a zombie, by impaling him with his Tsuno-Tokage, which finally makes him fall as he was just about to take Ace off the execution platform.

Little Oars Jr. is impaled by Gecko Moria and tries to save Ace with the last of his strength but soon collapses destroying everything at the bay with his enormous body, greatly shocking everybody with his defeat. Giant Vice Admiral Lonz tries to kill Whitebeard but he soon disposes of the vice admiral with his Devil-Fruit's powers easily. Whitebeard then orders his crew to climb Little Oars' body and advance, to which they quickly climb breaking through any Marine in their way. Enraged Whitebeard's 13th division commander Atmos confronts and attacks Donquixote Doflamingo for severing Oars' leg, to which he laughs claiming he is "at the center of history", and quickly puts Atmos under his control with his unknown ability to attack his subordinates. Koby and Helmeppo fled the battlefield as they are too scared to fight, they find Admiral Akainu confronting a Marine soldier who wants to leave the battle for his family's sake, this however angers Akainu as he claims that if he cares for his family he "must not live with shame" and instantly kills him, which scares the already scared Marines, just as Akainu is told that everything is ready for "the strategy".
As Garp remembers when Ace was born, the Whitebeard Pirates and allies enter the bay, and the ships proceed to destroy everything so as to make the entry easier, but are unable to do so with mere cannonballs until Whitey Bay enters with her Ice Cutting Ship. The now controlled Atmos is manipulated to kill his crew by Doflamingo, as he laughs about how "Evil" and "Justice" are but subjective matters for those who "are on the top" and how the current war is the "turning point". Sengoku is told that the Whitebeard Pirates and his allies have entered the bay and calls Vice Admiral Tsuru via Den Den Mushi to put "the strategy" into action, and quickly disposes of the pirates who attack her with her powers. She calls every Marine through Den-Den Mushi, to which Whitebeard is very cautious. Garp goes to the execution platform remembering past times with Luffy and Ace, when he wanted them to be Marines, rather than Pirates and is soon to blame Ace for his choice, with both bursting into tears, and Sengoku comprehending Garp's pain.
Just as Koby and Helmeppo are shocked by Sengoku's plan of killing Ace before the schedule, Luffy and the rest of the Impel Down escaped prisoners have stolen the show, they suddenly came down falling from the sky, it was later revealed how they got there (it wasn't really Ivankov's plan/fault). Mostly everyone was shocked at the sudden appearance of the troublemaker Monkey D. Luffy.

Luffy along the Impel Down escapees are falling from the sky, and a flashback starts. It shows how they were pushed by Whitebeard's seaquake which then turned into a tsunami, which quickly scares Buggy and the other pirates. Crocodile is fast in putting them in order by claiming that they can use the tsunami to their advantage and ride the wave. It is then frozen by Aokiji and they can see the battle has begun. Luffy suggests that they unstuck the ship so that it can slide through the frozen wave, but just before they can do something, the Den Den Mushi on the ship tells them (as a message to the Marines) that they should be set so that they can execute Ace ahead of schedule shocking everybody.
They break the ice but much to their surprise they do it in the wrong way and fall. Much to their luck, they fall precisely in the spot where Jozu picked up his iceberg. However, this proves bad news to the Devil Fruit users, to whom Jinbe has to save. Luffy then awakens on the destroyed ship, just to watch the still raging battlefield, and tries to find Ace, but he cannot find him anywhere. He looks everywhere he can, breaking through all the Marines who attack him with ease. Finally, Luffy finds Ace and shouts his name, to which Ace shouts back, which makes Luffy happy. Luffy and the company he brings shock everybody, and Sengoku soon blames Garp who is equally shocked.
Reactions vary, as Dracule Mihawk comments how Luffy always bring troubles with him, while Gecko Moria is outraged by Luffy's arrival. Boa Hancock is glad that Luffy is alive. Donquixote Doflamingo is rejoiced that former and current Shichibukai are present." and at the same time amused that Luffy is there as well. Admiral Aokiji comments on the group Luffy brings and Admiral Kizaru says that he never thought to see Luffy. Smoker wonders why Luffy and Crocodile are together. Marco recognizes the "brother" Ace told him about. Akainu finally seeing the "son of the revolutionary Dragon" and "grandson of Garp" decides that Luffy needs to be eliminated. Shocked, Sengoku asks Jinbe if that is his will to fight against the Marines, to whom he replies it is and that he "resigns the Shichibukai." Garp soon comments, that the escapees have no "common goal."
This soon proves to be right, as Crocodile is fast to attack Whitebeard on sight. Crocodile is then repelled by Luffy in Gear Second. Crocodile, who is cautious seeing that Luffy is wet with water to counter his abilities, tells him that their agreement is fulfilled and asks "why is he protecting Whitebeard," to which Luffy replies, "he makes Ace happy Crocodile is promptly held back by some Whitebeard Pirates. Whitebeard soon recognizes the straw hat as the one once worn by Shanks and remembers a past talk, about him losing his left arm. Whitebeard asks if it was Shanks's Straw Hat, to which Luffy answers it is. Whitebeard then asks Luffy if he came to rescue Ace to which Luffy confirms. Whitebeard angrily shouts that he will die if he tries, which shocks everybody. Luffy is fast and fearless to reply that "it is not up for him to decide," and that "he will become the next Pirate King."
Such reply, greatly stuns everybody, so much that the battle briefly stops. Whitebeard is soon to commend how "cheeky he is," and that he will not forgive him if he "gets in his way". Luffy replies that he "will do as he pleases, and will save Ace." Kizaru soon asks Sengoku if he can execute them all, to which Sengoku agrees.

While everybody is amazed at Luffy, both Koby and Helmeppo begin to talk about his selflessness. Luffy alerts Whitebeard about the plan to execute Ace ahead of schedule. Buggy comments that he hates Luffy's fearlessness and Ivankov claims that only Dragon's son could be so brave. Whitebeard thanks Luffy for the information and everybody is surprised they are talking in equal terms. Luffy begins his assault, breaking through all the Marines in his way. Jozu watches Luffy with joy, and sends his division to follow Luffy. Jinbe, Ivankov, and the Newkamas then leap into battle. The 14th division commanded by Speed Jiru also starts to charge. Garp is surprised that Luffy is in the battlefield as Sengoku speaks his thoughts about how the pirates can be encouraged by Luffy. Sengoku then commands the Marines through Den Den Mushi.
Whitebeard is very cautious about Sengoku's plan, thinking over what they are planning. Marco alerts Whitebeard of the current situation about Ace and Squard who is tied with the vice admirals at the bay. Whitebeard warns Marco not to fall into Sengoku's trap as Sengoku is not a man who would make mistakes easily. The 14th division is assaulted by Kizaru who then sees Luffy close by, and decides to attack him. Ivankov saves Luffy by pushing him away with a Death Wink. Buggy and his followers begin to panic. When the Impel Down prisoners mistook Buggy's attitude as bravery, Galdino starts to scold them. Bartholomew Kuma then attacks Ivankov with his beams. After evading the beams, Ivankov is surprised about "how he can attack him since they known each other for so long". Ivankov tells Luffy to let him handle Kuma, and Luffy presses forward.
Fullbody and Jango prepare to attack Luffy, who does not remember them at first until he recalls their humiliation, which angers them, and by pure luck, he is able to avoid Jango's hypnotism by looking at a nearby explosion. Both Fullbody and Jango fell to Jango's hypnotism and are then kicked away by Hina, whom Luffy recognizes from Alabasta. Hina tries to imprison Luffy, but he manages to get past her using Gear Second. The Squard Pirates are having difficulties with the vice admirals, and Squard tries to sneak into the plaza to rescue Ace, but he sees a "mysterious figure" before proceeding. Luffy fights with several strong Marines, whom he is able to defeat with some difficulty. Gecko Moria commends Luffy's powers, and plans to once again take his shadow, this time for Oars Jr. and sends his army of zombies after him. Luffy tries to avoid conflict with Moria, but is soon stopped by an increasing number of zombies. Kizaru sends more Marines after him, wondering how long can Luffy last.
Ace shows his concern for Luffy and tells him to retreat, which surprises Boa Hancock and Marco. Ace starts to berate Luffy for getting into other's affairs. Luffy replies that they are brothers and he does not care about the code of pirates. Marines start to wonder if Luffy may be another son of Gol D. Roger. Luffy is then attacked by Moria's zombies, but they are subdued by Jinbe who uses seawater to defeat them. Jinbe tells Luffy that he will handle Moria. One of the giants attempts to crush Luffy as Sengoku tells everybody about Luffy's relationship with Ace as an adoptive brother and reveals that Luffy is the son of Dragon, which greatly shocks everybody. Smoker is now able to understand why Dragon saved Luffy at Loguetown.
This revelation greatly surprises the people at Sabaody Archipelago and prompts the Marines to kill Luffy. Garp does not mind since Luffy is already a well-known pirate. Luffy is able to defeat the giant with Gear Third, and shouts at Ace that he will save him "even if it means death" which prompts the Whitebeard Pirates to appreciate him due to their common goal, and Whitebeard tells Marco they "cannot let him die". Ace looks surprised at Luffy.

Luffy is capable of defeating the giant from the Giant Squad impressing Ivankov's men. But they tell him that he has attracted the attention of the Marines. Luffy and Co. are surrounded by uncountable Marines and Sengoku orders them to stop Luffy. The Whitebeard Allies try to make their advance, but cannot pass through the vice admirals. The "Bazooka Unit" of the Marines shots at Whitebeard, but he easily destroys the cannonballs and the unit. Luffy and the 2nd Division of the Whitebeard Pirates make their advance, just as Ace feels saddened that they risk their lives for him, thinking it is better for him to be dead. Garp asks Ace "what's wrong?" to which he replies that he "will accept anything that happens to him" resigning to his death.
The Impel Down escapees, try to convince Buggy to attack Whitebeard, to which he agrees, while in fact he is scared. This becomes worse, just as Whitebeard calls him as he remembers him since he was in Gol D. Roger's crew. Whitebeard asks him if he's going to challenge him. Buggy having no choice, voices that he will defeat him, much to Galdino surprise. Whitebeard then asks him "what will he do after defeating him" since they are surrounded by more Marines than what even Whitebeard can handle, thus offering Buggy an alliance. The Impel Down escapees believe this is because of Buggy's might, much to how Galdino thinks by himself, "how can they get everything wrong?". Buggy finally agrees to join forces with Whitebeard, to what Marco claims "he's so easy to trick" since their goal was mainly the prisoners that were indeed strong. More of the Whitebeard allies arrive at the bay, which prompts the Marines to follow Sengoku's strategy.
The Marines step back and stop their fire, while Marine Ships surround them. Whitebeard asks his allies through Den Den Mushi "Where is Squard?" to which his men tell him he "was there just a while ago". Whitebeard then asks the Decalvan Brothers to "Follow his lead and command all Pirates", and is soon to order them to sink the Marine Ships around them, much to the brothers' surprise, thinking it better to make a "frontal attack", but Whitebeard is soon to tell his worries about Sengoku's plan, to which the brothers follow up, contacting all allies to sink the ships.
Sengoku is informed that the Whitebeard Pirates and Allies are changing their movements. Sengoku and Garp are soon to commend Whitebeard's action, however Sengoku remains confident in his plan. Luffy and Ivankov's men are halted by multiple Marines, but Ivankov arrives to help. Luffy asks him and Jinbe for help to clear the way, joining forces and brutally dispatching a large amount of Marines with their attacks. Gecko Moria tries to stop Luffy, but Jinbe decides to handle him. Moria absorbs shadows to power himself up, and uses his scissors as swords. Jinbe tells him that "It does him no good to take in others' powers", while Moria replies that "winning is all that matters".
Jinbe evades Moria's attacks, and is capable of hitting him, which makes Moria expel his shadows. Luffy keeps breaking through the Marines, just as Tashigi and Smoker spot him, and Smoker quickly attacks Luffy. Ivankov tries to help, but Bartholomew Kuma attacks him. Smoker and Luffy fight, commenting on how powerful each other has gotten. Smoker finally pins Luffy down with his Seastone jitte. Boa Hancock then helps Luffy. A surprised Smoker asks her, if "she's going to resign from the Shichibukai as well", to which she replies she is "deafened by anger" and will kill him. Ivankov tries to reason with Kuma, but then Donquixote Doflamingo, guessing that they were friends, tells Ivankov that he is "dead", much to Ivankov's surprise.

The Marines are surprised that Boa Hancock protected Luffy from Smoker. Hancock then gives Luffy the key to Ace's handcuffs. Luffy hugs Hancock as a way of thanking her. Hancock is so happy that she fell to her knees in a swoon. The nearby Marines mistook this interaction as Luffy throwing his weight on Hancock and defeating her. Hancock then pictures herself marrying Luffy and having the red string of fate tying them to each other, but is soon brought back to reality when Smoker attacks Luffy again, prompting Hancock to break his jitte. Smoker angrily asks her if she knows what will happen for messing with the Marines but she replies that she "can do everything, because she's beautiful". Ivankov confronts Donquixote Doflamingo about Bartholomew Kuma being "dead". Luffy soon joins Ivankov and Doflamingo explains that while the cyborg is indeed Kuma, he is not the one they once knew, as Dr. Vegapunk has completely modified him, and he is now a complete human weapon, much to Ivankov's surprise.
Doflamingo then tells Ivankov that Kuma now is just a weapon that follows the World Government's orders and so it is better for him to forget about their friendship. Kuma then shoots beams at Ivankov and Luffy. Kuma then dashes toward the Newkamas and blows them away with his Pad Cannon. Angered, Ivankov attacks him with both Face Spectrum and Galaxy Wink which blows Kuma away, followed by a kick which knocks Kuma down. Ivankov decides that he "will not hold back anymore". Just then he becomes depressed at how nobody has ever forgotten about him but quickly recovers claiming that he will make Kuma remember how scary he is.
He then orders the Newkamas to follow Luffy while he deals with Kuma. Meanwhile Buggy and his followers formulate a plan that they soon put into action, but Galdino has doubts. Daz Bonez and Crocodile fight the Whitebeard Pirates who try to protect Whitebeard from him, but are easily defeated. Jozu then confronts Crocodile and is capable of harming him. Just before Jozu could attack Crocodile again, Doflamingo saves Crocodile by holding Jozu back with his power. Crocodile threatens to kill Doflamingo if he gets in his way, but Doflamingo proposes an alliance. Luffy keeps advancing, but finds that Mihawk is in his way. Mihawk thinks to himself as he "apologizes" to Shanks as he will not hold back and will fight Luffy to determine if fate is on Luffy's side or not.

Luffy is running towards Ace but Mihawk stands directly in his path. Deciding that he does not have the time to deal with someone as strong as Mihawk, Luffy activates Gear 2 to steer clear of him. Ivankov continues his fight with Kuma, as two of his Newkama soldiers try to hold off Mihawk from attacking Luffy. They hint towards some sort of past experience with the swordsman, who replies with "I do not remember the face of every worm" after defeating them both with a single swing of his sword. As Luffy nears Ace, Mihawk uses his incredible vision to spot Luffy's fast movements, and then attacks him with his sword from a distance, pinning him to a wall. Jinbe then steps into the scene, commenting on Luffy's durability and defending him from a potential follow-up attack from Mihawk.
The two discuss the state of the war, and as nearby cannons point at Jinbe and fire, he uses his Fish-Man Karate to stop the cannonballs in mid-air, as Mihawk slices them in all half with a single stroke. The two then begin fighting. Luffy frees himself from the rubble of the collapsed wall and begins to attack Mihawk with a Gomu Gomu no Jet Bazooka, but he foresees both his arms getting cut off by Mihawk's sword, prompting him to rapidly redirect his arms. Mihawk comments on how Luffy is not as reckless as he expected as he slashes at straw hat, who narrowly dodges, but the shockwave from the sword cuts in half a frozen wave at the perimeter of the battlefield. While this is happening, Buggy quietly recaps his plan, dubbed "Make Captain Buggy a Star in Front of Everyone", to his crew, a plan involving stealing a Visual Den Den Mushi.
Crocodile is then seen confronting Doflamingo who is standing atop an incapacitated Jozu, telling him that he does not like the idea of teaming up with Doflamingo's "New Era". He then uses his Sables attack on Doflamingo and Jozu, sending them away in a sandy whirlwind that Buggy and his crew happen to get caught in. Hancock is then seen confronting Smoker, but when she refers to Luffy as her "husband" and he inquires about it, she goes into a daydream-sequence involving the honeymoon of herself and Luffy, and the joy of having to cook for him. The daydream ends, leaving Hancock in a state of trance-like infatuation, and Smoker a bit confused.
He is quickly reminded of his objective after seeing Luffy and Mihawk out of the corner of his vision, effectively snapping Hancock out of her daze and angering her. Luffy is then seen running from Mihawk, clumsily dodging a barrage of slashes. Luffy begins charging at him, but is distracted by Crocodile's sand tornado, so he quickly grabs Buggy by the lapels and uses him as a shield against Mihawk's sword, which separates his legs from his torso. Luffy then throws Buggy's torso towards Mihawk, who slashes it into many thin strips.
Buggy angrily reforms his upper half, and with his lower half, launches a Muggy Ball at Mihawk, who effectively redirects it at the embarrassed clown, who cracks a joke before becoming victim to the explosion. Luffy runs away, but is attacked by another of Mihawk's long-range slashes. Marco notices this, and sends Vista to protect Luffy by combating Mihawk. Contrast to the prior fight with the Newkama Soldiers, Mihawk gives Vista a dignified acknowledgement, despite the fact that the two had never met face-to-face before. Luffy continues towards Ace, with a blurred effect on the screen as he runs. Mihawk observes him as he and Vista continue to fight, and observes the fact that "among all the people on the sea, he (Luffy) has the most formidable ability". Buggy is seen lying on the ice with his head literally knocked off, as his subordinates praise him for yet another coincidental success; one of the men props up his beheaded body, which is holding the Visual Den Den Mushi in its hands.
The narrator then cues in, followed by a fast-cut montage in which everything has a monochromatic color scheme (first red, then blue, then yellow). After the montage, the two guards standing on either side of Ace cross their blades in the traditional execution style, and both the onlookers of Sabaody Archipelago and the members of the Whitebeard Pirates are struck with confusion and anger realizing that the execution will take place ahead of schedule. Luffy continues to make his way towards the execution platform, and Sengoku comments on his conviction of the outcome of the battle to be a victory for the Marines. Sentomaru then shows up, accompanied by seven Pacifistas which attack Whitebeard's ships from behind, causing much confusion for the Whitebeard pirates, their allies, and most of all, Ivankov. The episode ends with Sentomaru striking a battle-pose, excited for the incoming fight.

Sengoku orders the Pacifistas just to attack Whitebeard's allies.
The battle had been postponed so that they will not be trapped in the Encirclement Operation of Pacifistas.
Luffy is charging toward Ace but was intercepted by Admiral Kizaru. He then tells Luffy about the World Nobles wishing for Luffy's death and then he kicks him with a lightspeed kick. Luffy was caught by Jinbe. Thanks to the Whitebeard commander's support, Luffy was able to move forward.
Sengoku orders that all video being broadcast to Sabaody Archipelago be cut off, but the last Visual Den Den Mushi cannot be found. It turns out that it is held by Buggy and many Impel Down prisoners. They are trying to make Buggy famous.
Squard was seen with Whitebeard. He tells him that the Pacifistas are overpowering his allies. Then Whitebeard tells him that he knows Sengoku for a long time. Squard gets angry and tells him that they are all part of Whitebeard's family. He then stabbed Whitebeard in his chest.

With Whitebeard stabbed through by Squard, the pirates and Marines are in a mix of surprise and horror at how Squard would go against his captain. Squard removes his sword while Buggy is in shock with his Den Den Mushi still online. This leaves the people at Sabaody in an uproar. The pirates blame Squard for his action and Marco vents his frustration on the Maelstrom Spider pirate. Squard demands that Marco kill him because Whitebeard is responsible for the whole ordeal. When the large pirate drops to his knees, Squard insists that the battle has been a farce. He accuses Whitebeard of making a deal with the Navy to save Ace and his comrades, but their allies would be harmed. The Maelstrom Spider captain then speaks out that Whitebeard has played them all for fools and he realizes that Ace is Gol D. Roger's biological son.
Years ago, Squard was alone. He often melted down at a bar complaining there wasn't any strong foes for him. Just then the large pirate with a large cape walked into the bar and met him. He learned that his crew had been massacred by Roger.
That is why he despises Roger more than anything. Squard is very angry that Whitebeard kept these secrets. Luffy is shocked that Whitebeard wants Ace to the next Pirate King. While the Pacifistas rain down on some pirates, Squard yells at his superior for lying to him from the very start. He was good friends with Ace. Now that Ace is captured, with the main Whitebeard fleet inside the large barricades with the minor fleet trapped outside, Squard is very angry with Whitebeard.
Squard thinks back to a meeting with Akainu, the marine admiral had informed him that Ace was Roger's son. Akainu was already confident with the war's outcome and Squard tried to charge at him, but was knocked into a wall. Akainu explained that his forces intend to converge and wipe out the allied pirate fleet while sparring only Whitebeard's forces.
Squard then accuses Whitebeard of making his allies sacrificial lambs. The Pacifistas continue to chase down the pirates. With the Pacifistas attacking from behind, and the ice on both sides, there is no way out. The pirates begin to wonder if Whitebeard is lying or not. Squard felt it was a miracle to run Whitebeard through and demands to be executed in return. The other pirates accuse Whitebeard of sacrificing them so Ace would be sparred. Whitebeard just stares silently.
On Sabaody, the people watch in horror upon thinking that Whitebeard betrayed his fellow pirates and would side with the Navy all along.
Back at Marineford, Squard says the crew would be all sons to the large pirate, but some children are worth more. Marco yells that the Navy has lied to Squard, but the pink haired pirate says that Marco is also in cahoots with the Navy. Whitebeard says the deaths of Squard's crew wasn't Ace's fault but it was as it was. He also scolds Squard for being much worse than Sengoku.
As Sengoku sends Aokiji out to hit Buggy, the people begin to think the war was a setup. Then the feed is cut off. Buggy and his crew are frozen by Aokiji's ice. Sengoku then orders the walls to be activated. Crocodile senses that the pirate who once beat him was struck down by his own ally. He then yells at Whitebeard for making a fool of everyone involved. Marco begins to fear that Whitebeard is getting weaker the more older he becomes.
Even with his health deteriorating, Whitebeard yells that Squard has lost his way and seems to slap him, but hugs him even though he is a fool. First, Squard is still angry at Whitebeard for his betrayal, but is questioned who took his heart away from his family. Squard answers "Akainu".
In a flashback, it is shown that Akainu said that Whitebeard is considered a hero and the people don't realize the truth. He also stated Squard that Whitebeard had a deal to save his pirates but sells out their New World Allies without a thought. Akainu says they must kill Whitebeard to end the war.
Squard then tells Whitebeard if he killed him, Akainu would spar the New World pirates. Even though Squard despised Roger, Whitebeard says it's ridiculous to pin the blame on a child for the sins of a father. Ace and Squard had gone through happy and painful times together. Squard is told to treat Ace kindly as the crew is all family to Whitebeard. The Emperor then blames Sengoku for all the lies he put Squard through and causes two tremors to crack the ice. The escape route is open as the pirates could hijack the Navy ships at any time. Whitebeard yells to be a true pirate, one must choose a path to walk on their own.
As Squard cries, the New World pirates beg for forgiveness. Whitebeard reminds Crocodile that every human has a heart and can't be strong forever. If Ace is rescued, then Whitebeard will gladly retire. Whitebeard rallies his pirates and continues the charge.

Whitebeard enters the battlefield, which raises the morale of his pirates and prompts them to clear the way for him. The Marines shoot cannonballs to him, but he uses his powers to deflect them and destroy the cannons. The Marines try to activate the encircling walls, but the ice prevents them from raising completely. A confused Squard is soon to blame himself for being fooled, as the Decalvan Brothers and the rest of the commanders, are infuriated by the foul tactic used, while Marco asks Squard if "he can redeem himself by crying". Luffy makes his way through and is followed by Jinbe and Emporio Ivankov, who is soon to notice the retreat of the Marines, from which Jinbe is also cautious, but agree that there is no way back since Whitebeard is on the battlefield.
Sengoku is infuriated at the delay of the walls, which forces Vice Admiral John Giant to try buy some time, and quickly breaks through multiple pirates and attacks Whitebeard, who easily blocks his attack, and unleashes a massive earthquake, that drastically alters the balance of the sea and Marineford much to Donquixote Doflamingo's amusement. As Luffy is about to fall into an abyss, Jinbe pulls him out. Koby and Helmeppo are soon to notice that much of the plaza is destroyed. John Giant is impressed, but decides to fight in the name of Absolute Justice, and is easily defeated by one of Whitebeard blows, that breaks through the ice, and the bay, and is about to reach the scaffold but the three admirals block the shock wave with Haki and are soon to blame each other for the delay on the walls.
Commander Jozu orders his mates to attack and use the chance provided by Whitebeard, that has set the Marines out of balance. Sengoku orders that all power is given to the walls. Luffy tries to reach Ace but the large walls activate trapping all the pirates. They attempt to break the wall, but it all seems futile. However they find that there is still a path opened by Oars Jr.'s body, as his blood makes the system less effective. Everybody is impressed at how he is "still fighting". But then Sengoku's patience ends and orders Akainu to attack, which makes him launch magma at the sky. This in turn silences the battlefield for a moment, but the silence is broken by magma raining down from the sky. Akainu's attack is meant to melt the ice, leaving no way for the pirates to advance. Luffy is shocked at this event.

The people in Sabaody Archipelago are losing their patience towards the cut transmission. At the same time, the Worst Generation notice the plan of the Marines with Trafalgar Law and his crew departing with Basil Hawkins predicting "Death" with his tarot cards. Eustass Kid is also seen with his crew with him commenting on how the show was over. Meanwhile Akainu uses his Ryusei Kazan to send magma punches to melt the ice, which also makes the melted ice become boiling water. The survivors try to escape by getting on ice, but the cannons on the encircling walls bombard the area, while Pacifistas block their path of escape. Whitebeard uses a quake punch on the walls, but the walls are capable to resist. Akainu tries to finish them as soon as possible, setting the Moby Dick on fire, completely destroying it. The Whitebeard Pirates mourn at its loss. Koby wonders what happens within the wall, and Helmeppo assures him that the Pirates are being destroyed, much to Koby's shock. Sengoku then orders for the immediate execution of Ace shocking everybody, much to Gecko Moria's delight and the despair of the Pirates, who know that if they try to approach, they will be killed. Luffy decided to move forward and rescue Ace, prompting the Whitebeard Pirates to follow him. Ivankov yells about how they will be destroyed if they attempt to move towards the only path possible, but the pirates keep moving. Luffy and the pirates are held back by the massive barrage of cannonballs, but Luffy keeps moving forward and is bombarded and pushed into the water, much to Ace's worry. Sengoku orders to carry the execution. When everything seemed lost, Little Oars Jr. regains consciousness, much to the pirates delight. Squard is given his weapon back by his crew and Jinbe saves Luffy. The Marines soon shot Oars in the hopes to bring him down as he's weakened, and Luffy desperately asks Jinbe to aid him. Watching how strong he is, Kizaru decides that he will take care of Oars. Before he can do it, Jinbe uses his technique to push Luffy over the walls. Luffy lands in the plaza standing right in front of the three admirals. They then comment and commend his strength and tenacity, leaving everybody stunned. However, the admirals ask how will Luffy fight them. Watching Luffy, Whitebeard soon orders Oars and Jozu to prepare their trump card and states that they are going to charge. Meanwhile, Luffy is launched on a broken mast at the three admirals, which is frozen by Aokiji. Luffy shatters it with his Stamp Gatling, sending the shards towards the admirals.

Crocodile saves Ace.Luffy kicks the frozen mast, and the shrapnel hit the admirals, but to no effect. Both Koby and Helmeppo are greatly shocked at Luffy's action and comment on how the admirals will kill him. The ice shards resulting from Aokiji's defense create a fog, which Luffy uses to activate Gear Second and pass through the admirals. His efforts are futile as Kizaru kicks him at lightspeed. Sengoku then orders for Ace to be executed, much to the surprise of Whitebeard, Jinbe, Marco and the commanders. However, the executioners are struck by Crocodile's sand, shocking and angering Sengoku. When confronted, he claimed "he does not want them to taste victory" and his head is then sliced by Donquixote Doflamingo, who claimed he is "jealous that he joined with Whitebeard". Crocodile soon recovers, and both fight as Crocodile claims he "will team up with nobody". Luffy is then attacked by hordes of Marines, and defeats a high ranking Marine with ease. Akainu is about to intercept Luffy but Aokiji pins Luffy down, and claims he owed a favor to Garp, but that Luffy has chosen "his own path of death". Boa Hancock wants to interfere, but Marco proves to be faster and kicks Aokiji away. Galdino, who has infiltrated deep inside Marineford, believes he is being chased by the Marines when an alert is announced and falls in panic. The Whitebeard Pirates decide to swim across the boiling water toward Oars Jr. and Sengoku is immediately alerted. In a desperate attempt, high ranking Marines give the order to shoot cannon balls at them, but the lower ranking Marines begin to panic as the pirates keep advancing without hesitation. Soon after a hidden coated ship appears and takes the pirates in, much to the Marines' surprise and Sengoku's annoyance. The Marines order to shoot down the ship, but it is too fast. Sengoku orders them to shoot at Oars, but he is already able to pull the ship out of the water, allowing the pirates a safe pass through the plaza. Garp soon commends Whitebeard for his tactics and Oars is gunned down and falls unconscious, telling Whitebeard to save Ace. Whitebeard enters the plaza, and unleashes a massive shock wave with his weapon. Whitebeard orders his pirates to save Ace and destroy the Marines. Knowing that Whitebeard is about to attack with all his forces, both Sengoku and Garp decide to fight.

Ivankov is barely capable of avoiding to fall into water, as Jinbe asks what he's doing, to which he replies that he is trying to hear what is happening on the plaza. Ivankov begins to panic about Luffy and blames Jinbe. Meanwhile, war keeps its pace, and Marco thanks Little Oars Jr. for his help. Whitebeard commands his pirates to clear the way, as he readies a powerful shockwave.
Knowing the danger Aokiji uses his powers to freeze Whitebeard on his Ice Ball, however he is unable to freeze him as Whitebeard's vibrations cannot be frozen. Aokiji readies another attack and ends impaled by Whitebeard so he can freeze him at point-blank, however Jozu prevents it by shattering Aokiji, but he quickly regenerates, albeit slightly injured. Luffy and the pirates keep their move, and Garp starts to behave strangely, which Sengoku notes. Both Helmeppo and Koby feel helpless, with Koby deciding he must fight for the sake of his promise to Luffy. Vice Admiral Momonga attacks Luffy with his Rokushiki swordsmanship. Luffy is then attacked by another vice admiral, and then blasted away by Kizaru's beams, much to the anger of Garp, to which Sengoku is fast to remind him of his position. Kizaru commends on Luffy's tenacity, but claims that "if he's not strong, he cannot save Ace". Koby and Helmeppo panic at how Luffy is faced by Kizaru, while Luffy begins to lose consciousness.
Kizaru proceeds to kick Luffy away, and is caught by Whitebeard, to which Kizaru berates him, while sarcastically commending the Whitebeard pirates who try to protect their captain. Jinbe and Ivankov soon make their arrival, while Luffy struggles to keep fighting, and is soon treated by a surgeon. Whitebeard claims how he likes people like Luffy, and readies a shockwave, but Akainu prevents it, and the two start a fight of massive sheer-power. Both the Shichibukai and the Whitebeard Pirates make their way through. Sentomaru reassures his assault leading the Pacifista. Marco readies himself and flies towards Ace to rescue him, to which Sengoku orders the Marines to shoot him down to no avail.
When Marco is about to reach the scaffold after a long struggle, Garp jumps into the air and proceeds to brutally punch Marco away. This course of action annoys Sengoku and surprises everyone else. Garp then makes his claim that whoever wants to pass, must kill him first.

The Whitebeard Pirates begin to panic as Garp who is considered a legend, has decided to battle. Whitebeard then tells them that Garp is just "an old soldier", but Akainu interrupts him claiming he should "focus on his enemy" and attacks with his Hound Blaze, which is deflected by Whitebeard causing more destruction in the plaza. Sengoku then orders for more executioners as the pirates break through, but are stopped by Pacifistas which are soon defeated by the alliance of pirates.
Ivankov watches over Luffy and is told by the surgeon that Luffy is in serious damage. Ace watches at the war and lowers his head, to what Sengoku asks him about, just as Ace starts to remember his childhood in which he used to beat out people who would badmouth Gol D. Roger when asked about, by him. Ace would later ask Garp if he "deserved to be born" to which Garp replies "it is something he will find living". Ace begins to curse his situation, as Luffy tries to ask Ivankov for a favor. The pirates and Jinbe break through multiple Marines.
Ace replies to Sengoku, that after seeing how his loved ones are risking everything for him, he's so happy and announces his desire to life, causing Garp to sadden. The scene is shifted to Buggy and his followers who after being frozen by Aokiji were defrosted by the boiling water, who still keep being naively loyal to him. Whitebeard keeps his fight against Akainu, but begins to weaken as he is too old. Marco who is worried, tries to help him, but Kizaru uses the chance to shot two beams and pierce Marco. Jozu got distracted for this and was frozen by Aokiji. Akainu then lands a brutal magma fist into Whitebeard's chest. A willing-to-fight Koby is stopped by Helmeppo as the latter tell him that Koby does not need to fight as the Marines are most likely the winners of the war, Koby remembers his promise to Luffy and laments his own weakness.
Luffy asks Ivankov to be given more energy hormones, but Ivankov assures him that it is too dangerous, but Luffy keeps his pleads claiming he "would rather die afterwards if he cannot fight". Ivankov calls him a fool, and how he cannot make him take such risks or he "would not be able to face his father". As new executioners prepare themselves, Ivankov decides to inject hormones to Luffy, which restore his strength, prompting Koby to move forward.

Luffy has restored his strength, just as the new executioners are ready. Ivankov confronts Luffy in that the energy hormones do not repair the damage he has taken, but Luffy claims he "will not fall again". The two executioners prepare themselves to execute Ace. Ivankov tries to calm Luffy down, but is unable to do so, deciding he will protect a now rushing-Luffy. Luffy is halted by multiple Marines, which he defeats, but to no stopping. Ivankov clears the way for him, but soon after Koby appears remembering the time he met Luffy for the first time, and decides to fight Luffy for the sake of his dream. However he is easily defeated by one punch of Luffy, and reflects on his lack of power as he falls unconscious.
Luffy and Ivankov are soon stopped by two Pacifistas but they stop their attack as Boa Hancock gets in the way, as they recognize her as an ally, which buys both of them enough time to get away. Hancock then daydreams about Luffy when outraged that the Pacifistas call her name. Whitebeard is weakened after Akainu's attack, and Marco tries to help, but is attacked by Kizaru. Marco regenerates and rushes to help Whitebeard, but Kizaru sends Onigumo to put Seastone on Marco, allowing Kizaru to brutally damage him. At the same time Jozu is completely frozen by Aokiji who claims the Whitebeard Pirates are "falling one by one".
Sengoku orders to a large amount of Marines to attack Whitebeard, who is shot and slashed mercilessly, His worried crew rushes to help him, but he orders them to stay away, claiming that, "They will not beat him so easily" he unleashes his massive strength and quickly sends flying all the Marines around him. Sengoku reorders that Whitebeard is to be attacked as he's wounded, which causes Whitebeard to laugh claiming he cannot die before "seeing a future for his sons". As the Marines tries to attack him, Jinbe and the commanders cover his back. Squard seeing this, claims he will redeem himself in his own way. Sengoku mocks him claiming that he "will show him the future" and orders the execution. Whitebeard tries to use his Haki, but succumbs due to the effects of his injuries and old age.
Luffy tries to break his way, but is stopped by the Marines. Desperate, he unleashes an extremely powerful burst of Haoshoku Haki, which knocks out the executioners and many of the Marines and Pirates around, which greatly shocks everybody, meanwhile Luffy keeps advancing towards the execution platform.

When Ace is about to be executed, Whitebeard tries to intervene but he is stopped because of the wounds he received. Much to the shock of the Commanders and Jinbe, Luffy uses his Haoushoku Haki unconsciously, preventing Ace from being executed because the executioners fainted. Many of the Marines also faint and even a few of the Whitebeard Pirates. Ivankov then asks Luffy how he gained that power, to which Luffy says he does not know. Rakuyo comments it's the Conqueror Haki. Aokiji is surprised and sweating a bit, and Kizaru said he was surprised in a sarcastic way.
Some of the Whitebeard Pirates say that Ace is alive and that the others fainted because of the burst of Haki from Luffy. They questioned if that was Ace's brother. Marines were seen knocked out and someone commented that they almost have passed out. Fossa then says that Luffy used Haki, just like Whitebeard and Shanks. Akainu commented that Luffy used his Haki unconsciously. Kizaru also commented on the tremendous power of Luffy. Garp comments that Luffy was born with it, as he had thought, and Ace comments, "he uses it too". Vice Admiral Doberman stated that those whose hearts are weak to back down, and that Luffy is not an ordinary rookie. He also commented on Luffy's Haki but that it's not surprising because he is the son of the Revolutionary Dragon. Ivankov then asks Luffy again how he obtained the power. Luffy is clueless as to what power he is referring to. Ivankov then comments that Luffy is not aware that he is using it, and therefore is not yet ready to use the power.
Whitebeard then orders his men to back Luffy up. The New World Captains fight against the vice admirals while the other pirates clear a straight path to the execution platform. Inazuma then reappears, having been hiding in Ivankov's hair, and uses his Devil Fruit powers to create a bridge that leads straight to the scaffold. Luffy runs up the path, but when he comes close to the platform, Garp jumps in front of him. Garp states that if Luffy wants to save Ace, he will have to kill Garp first.

As Luffy continues running up the pathway created by Inazuma, with his Choki Choki no Mi powers, Helmeppo is crying over Koby, who apparently passed out after being punched by Luffy. The marines then attempt to shoot at Luffy, but Boa Hancock intervenes and stops them with her Slave Arrow move. Garp, Luffy's grandfather, continues shouting that Luffy must kill him in order to pass.
Luffy then has a flashback of a training session where he attempts to continuously ward off fighting monkeys, but eventually gets tired and then asks his grandfather, "Why do I have to keep fighting them, it only makes me hungry". Garp says, "So that you'll be a strong marine soldier". Luffy defiantly shouts that he wants to be a pirate.
As he continues running, Luffy has yet another flashback, again training. This time he is attacking a Gorilla, but fails to hit the Gorilla. He attempts a Gomu-Gomu no move, but fails and snags his arm into a near-by tree. Garp helps him down and fixes his straw hat. As his grandfather does so Luffy says, "I'm going to become a pirate, not just a pirate, the Pirate King". Angered by his statements Garp becomes frustrated and blames Red-haired Shanks for influencing Luffy into becoming a pirate and thus dismisses the Gorilla saying, "I must beat some character into my grandson". Directly proceeding to kick Luffy. He then carries Luffy on his back speaking to him of himself and his wishes.
As the flashback ends Garp shouts, "Luffy, I now consider you my enemy!" Luffy then goes into Gear Second and gets ready to unwillingly punch his grandfather, who is also preparing to punch his grandson, but in the midst of the commotion he is caught up in his loving heart for Luffy and gets knocked out by his own grandson.
The pathway then begins to crumble, as Garp continues to fall to the ground head first. Luffy then jumps through the rumble, making his way to the platform where Ace is being held. When Luffy attempts to unhandcuff his brother, Ace, Admiral Kizaru splits the key in half. Mr. 3 then realizes that its Luffy and makes a key for him. As Luffy uncuffs his brother Admiral Sengoku transforms into a large Buddha like figure using his devil fruit powers. He then punches them, but Luffy expands using Gear Third.
Galdino, Luffy, and Ace begin to fall from the platform after the punch from Sengoku. Meanwhile all the marines fire cannons at them. They seem to be directly hit, but Ace uses his devil fruit abilities to save them. Ace is free and Luffy, Galdino and Whitebeard are alive.

Whitebeard's pirate coalition celebrate their victory while the Marines are horrified and angered that Ace was freed. With Ace now glowing with fire and free-falling with Luffy, Ivankov cries with joy that the latter's father would be happy. Hancock praises Luffy hoping he will have a happy ending with here and wants to marry him after leaving Marineford. Helmeppo is in shock while Koby accepts that Luffy is just as he is. As the Marines are about to fire a second barrage, Ace suggests splitting up, with the Straw Hat pirate throwing Galdino aside. The fiery pirate then uses a Flame Commandment and Fire Pillar burning some Marines and blowing them back.
Ace and Luffy land safely while Galdino hurts himself on the ground. The former surrounds their party with a ring of fire and asks if Luffy can still fight. Luffy answers positively. Ace while surprised that his brother would save him decides to go against his pride. Luffy laughs saying he couldn't have done it alone. The two are hit by bullets with no effect, and Luffy deflects the bullets. Two marines try to cut him, but Ace blocks the hit and heals immediately. He then uses a Fire Fist permeating the Marines around the brothers. Luffy goes into Second Gear, dodging an attack and using a Gum-Gum Jet Spear to hit some officers hard. Ace then shoots some Fire Gun shots out of his fingers hitting more officers. A Marine with a mace almost crushes the fiery pirate, but Luffy knocks him away. With the Marines in awe, Ace says that while the fight is fun, they will need to leave soon.
Vista praises the brothers' team work and Haruta orders the pirates to pull out. The Marines give chase, but Ace and his brother jump over them, before the former shoot a small Fire Fly barrage and detonates them with Fiery Doll, blowing the Marines away. Luffy blows more enemies back with Gum-Gum Jet Gatling. As the two continue their fight, they look back to their younger days when they raced to a beach. Now running in the present Ace admires how tough Luffy has become while they think of the fights they had in their youth. Luffy admits he hopes to be stronger than his brother, but then their path is blocked by Aokiji. The ice Admiral says they won't live to see the dawn. Ace prepares to engage the admiral who readies an Ice Block and shoots a Pheasant Beak, while the pirate shoots a Flame Mirror. Their attacks dissolve slowly. With the marines in shock, Vista's party charges forward not blaming Ace for showing off a bit.
Meanwhile, Buggy wants a Den Den Mushi repaired so he can show off again that he wants to wear down Luffy and assassinate Whitebeard. When that's done, Buggy plans to be one of the Four Emperors. Watching Ace and Luffy flee, Galdino thinks about Mr. 2's memory and wishes to leave, but is spotted by some Marines seeing through his disguise.
Sengoku recovers infuriated at the blunder while Doflamingo wants to let Luffy and Ace slide. But Momonga gives chase. As some marines are confused on what to do, Akainu orders them to pull themselves together and assures that escape for Ace and Luffy is impossible. Just then, a paddle-boat runs aground scaring the Marines with Squard aboard. Squard tells Whitebeard to leave hoping to show their enemies the pride of the Maelstrom Spider Pirates. Whitebeard thinks Squard is out of his mind.
Some of the pirates think Squard has a death wish and the latter hopes to atone for his stabbing of Whitebeard by heroically sacrificing himself. The Maelstrom Spider Pirate captain is sad that his crew came with him, but they went at their own discretion. Hearing their word, Squard orders the pirates to get Ace out of there. Ace fires a St. Elmo's Fire beam at some marines and is surprised by Squard's actions. Marco worries that sadness will be the result before demanding the Seastone Cuffs be removed from his wrist.
Squard's party charges forward ready to go down fighting, but Whitebeard stops the paddle-boat even on the brink of death. The white-bearded pirate says how it's cruel for a father to bury his own sons and says that everyone needs to grow old and die one day. With their business at Marineford finished, Whitebeard orders full retreat while he stays behind to keep his sons from further harm.
Whitebeard stands firm ready to give one last order to his crew. The pirates protest as they wanted to leave together. While Ace fires a Cross Fire cross, Whitebeard goes on saying that even families must part ways and wishes for his crews to go back to the New World and continue their legacy. With his era coming to a close, Whitebeard says that no ship can carry him to the new age. He causes a quake that begins to break up Marineford imploring the pirates to evacuate and forge their own path. Rakuyo doesn't want his captain to stay behind, while Luffy and Ace protest as well. Giving a proud smile to his sons, he wishes them a new age. He also thinks of the time he spent with his crew as it was a long journey with them. With a smile, Whitebeard yells he will end the fight once and for all.

Marineford begins to crumble around the Marines. With the island coming down, much of Whitebeard's crew don't want to leave their captain behind. Angry at their insubordination, Whitebeard tells his crew to evacuate. The Marines continue to rapidly fire bullets at the large pirate who slams his spear down, blowing some Marines away. Some of Whitebeard's crew despair, but Fossa says that evacuation is what Whitebeard wishes his crew to do. With the pirate crew leaving, Luffy calls to Ace who is standing still. Marco also despairs at Whitebeard's situation. Galdino laughs confidently over the rescue of Ace and is about to be cut down by some Marines, but uses a wax turtle shell to protect himself. Galdino says to the soldiers that his skills are still adept and is nearly shot, but flees.
As Whitebeard continues to pummel Marineford, Sengoku realizes the white-bearded pirate wants to sink the entire island and take every Marine with him. Meanwhile, Garp recovers believing the old era is coming to a close. On Sabaody Archipelago, the people are concerned for Whitebeard's condition thinking he might have betrayed his allies. They look back at how Buggy blocked off their view of the fight. On his part, Buggy is angry that the Den Den Mushi he's glaring at is still within its shell as he wants to overthrow Whitebeard and announce his victory. With the snail too scared to come out, Buggy believes it only wants to do its job. Suddenly, the snail comes out crying. The former prisoners suggest that Buggy announce his intent to conquer the world. Soon, Buggy decides to start his speech.
Just then, the Sabaody monitors go online and Buggy greets the people on their end. With the pirates racing back to their ships, Whitebeard continues to hold his own against the Marines. Jozu is still frozen making him too heavy to carry out. So Blenheim is called. Ivankov calls for Luffy to depart while Ace continues to stand still. With the Marines closing in, Ace fires a fire blast at the Marines. Ace kneels before his captain exhausted. With the time for words passing, Whitebeard asks one last thing from Ace, if he is happy to be father to him. After Ace looks back on his meetings with Whitebeard, he tearfully says he is happy that Whitebeard is his father. Whitebeard laughs With the scaffold destroyed, Buggy announces to the people on Sabaody he will become a legend but is beaten up for messing the part.
As the pirates near freedom, Jinbe tells Ace and Luffy to stay in front as the Marines wish to target them. After the pirates steal a Navy ship, Akainu knows escape is futile and fires a lava fist at some pirates. Jinbe tells his two allies not to look back. Sakazuki gloats that the pirates would be cowards after saving Ace. Kingdew senses that Sakazuki is trying to send the pirates over the edge. The Marine admiral then insults Whitebeard as a "washed up failure", driving Ace off the deep end. Ace turns to face Akainu in a fit of rage ignoring the pleas of his friends. Sakazuki tells of how Ace's biological father, Gol D. Roger conquered the Grand Line and started the Great Pirate Era by sacrificing himself. He also says that Whitebeard is a failure thanks to his lack of ambition and thinks he is a coward.
As Whitebeard will soon be forgotten, Ace marches forward covered in fire while Akainu thinks the crew has been deluded. Angered, Ace says there is nothing fake about the Whitebeard pirates while Sakazuki wants the pirates dead as failures. Determined to protect his father's era, Ace shoots a fiery fist while Akainu shoots a magma fist; The latter's magma easily breaks through Ace knocking him back. Sakazuki gloats that even if Ace is made of fire, his own magma can burn several times the effect. Luffy tries to intervene, but drops to his knees as well as the Vivre Card. Seeing how he has the opportunity to end the bloodlines of Gol D. Roger and Monkey D. Dragon, Akainu aims for Luffy who is trying to reach Ace's Vivre Card. Seconds later, Ace's beads fall to the ground as Ace has shielded Luffy from Sakazuki's fist. The pirates and Garp are shocked as the Vivre Card begins to burn up again.

With Ace's Vivre Card burning up, Luffy looks on in horror. Akainu releases his fist while Ace coughs blood. The pirates are horrified at what Akainu had done to Ace. Kizaru, Aokiji and Garp look on in shock. Whitebeard turns back and sees the horror of Ace mortally wounded. Driven over the edge, the pirates angrily charge at the Marine Admiral. Buggy also looks on helpless. With the Seastone handcuffs too strong to remove from Marco's wrist, they insist on getting Galdino's help.
The pirates fire wildly on Akainu with the people on Sabaody looking on in shock.
However, Akainu recovers walking through the fire with only one arm. The admiral restores his arm and sets his sights on Luffy and Ace preparing another magma fist. Luffy tries to plead for his brother's life and Whitebeard tries to save his crewmate, but Kizaru fires a light blast at the large white-bearded pirate's arm. The yellow-suited vice-admiral reminds Whitebeard that he's become forgetful at his age. Just as Akainu's fist is about to hit, Jinbe blocks the attack willing to sacrifice himself for Ace and Luffy.
Marco then sees that Galdino is unharmed and demands he unlock his cuffs.
Garp decides to walk through his own marines, but Sengoku holds him down. The former tells him to hold him down as he could kill Sakazuki at any moment. While Jinbe recovers his hands, Vista and Marco use Haki-infused attacks on the admiral. Akainu gloats that the marines already won as Ace is finally dying.
Luffy embraces his brother trying to put pressure on the wound, and hopes to get help. But Ace thanks his Luffy for his effort but accepts his life has run its course. Luffy yells for medical assistance, and a doctor races to their side. The wounds are too great as Akainu burned through Ace's internal organs. Luffy calls to Ivankov but there is no hope.
Saddened, the young pirate mourns that Ace once said he would protect him when they were kids and how he wouldn't die.
As the Marines fight more pirates, Luffy believes the fight is not over, and tries to tell Ace to remember his promises. Ace thinks about how he should never have been born and didn't deserve to live. Years ago, some people insulted the young Ace and thought of killing him. Ace stood up to them. A woman named Dadan scolded Ace for trying to hurt people.
Ace says that were it not for Sabo, he would not have a will to live. He tells Luffy to say hi to Dadan for him and thank her for putting up with them. The Straw Hat pirate tries to protest death, but Ace says he won't be around to see Luffy's dream come true and implores him to continue. They also look back on their day how they should enjoy life on the sea without regret.
Ace had lived without regret, and believes things could have been better had he deserved to live. With his voice weakening, Ace tells Luffy and everyone "Thank you... for caring about someone like me... This good for nothing... This world never wanted..." Ace cries that his friends loved him and falls forward while life flashes in his eyes. The Vivre Card burns out and Ace dies with a smile but Luffy cries profusely.

Ace smiled one last time and passes away, falling from his brother's arms as the last fragment of his vivre card burns away.
Luffy remembered when Ace punched him on the head in the past for crying when he thought Ace was dead, after which Ace made a promise not to die and leave his weak little brother alone. Now back in the present, kneeling by his brother's body, Luffy raised his head and howls in mindless grief. 
The Whitebeard Pirates as well as the entire Sabaody are shocked at the death of Ace. Luffy stays still and is unresponsive as Ivankov called out to him - seeing that all the damage Luffy had taken now took its toll, Iva surmises that the shock had collapsed Luffy's mind. Akainu takes the opportunity to once again try to kill Luffy, but Marco intercepted him and yelled at Jinbe to take Luffy away.
Before Akainu can pursue Luffy to finish him off as well, Whitebeard appeared behind him and punched Akainu to the ground, greatly wounding him. Akainu retaliated, burning off a portion of Whitebeard's head. In the anime, Akainu only burns off half of Whitebeard's mustache in one attack, and pierces his torso in another, heavier attack. Surprisingly, this did not faze Whitebeard, who slammed Akainu aside, injuring him further and in the process causing an earthquake that demolished the Marine Headquarters base, and splits the plaza in half. This act separated the Marines and the pirates, isolating Whitebeard with the Marines. Sengoku is astonished that Whitebeard still had so much power while Whitebeard stated he is not finished yet.
The pirates meanwhile retreated to their ships. In the midst of the chaos, the Marines noticed a shadow behind the ruined Marine Headquarters building which reveals itself to be a giant. He was not alone; they noticed more figures on the scaffold of the building. Doflamingo laughed while Whitebeard and Sengoku are less than pleased when they see Blackbeard and his band of pirates, which now included a few new crewmates recruited from Level 6 of Impel Down. Blackbeard laughed as he looked down on Whitebeard, commenting that he was glad he made it in time to see Whitebeard die. Sengoku and Blackbeard threw words at each other, and Blackbeard explained how he used the title of Shichibukai to get what he wanted, which was to break into Impel Down and free the Level 6 prisoners: Sanjuan Wolf, Avalo Pizarro, Vasco Shot, Shiryu, and Catarina Devon.

Blackbeard emerges among the ruins of Marineford, accompanied by his crew and several Level 6 escapees from Impel Down. He begins to fight Whitebeard, who confronts him for his betrayal of the Whitebeard Pirates by murdering Thatch, and his hand in the death of Ace. Whitebeard and Blackbeard clash several times, until Whitebeard then lands a critical blow to Blackbeard and then continues to pin him down and tries to crush his throat. Blackbeard survives and then his crew attacks Whitebeard in a cowardly manner by using pistols and blades, dealing finishing blows to his already battered body, while his crew looks on in horror and heartbreak.
In Whitebeard's final moments, he thinks about his last meeting with Gol D. Roger and learns the history behind the middle initial "D". Gol D. Roger also told Whitebeard how to get to Laugh Tale, even though Whitebeard doesn't ever plan on going there. As Whitebeard is dying, he mentions how the Pirate King awaits someone with the initial "D", but tells Teach that he isn't the one that Gol D. Roger is waiting for. He also says that there will be others that will pick up Ace's will and that those flames will never extinguish. Whitebeard then addresses Sengoku and the World Government, acknowledging that they are afraid that one day, a battle will break out that immerses the whole world, and the world will become engulfed in war. Whitebeard admits he doesn't care about the fate of the world, but as long as someone finds Roger's treasure, the world will be turned upside-down, and affirms someone will find it, on a day that will come sooner or later. He grins at Sengoku, who looks on with fright.
Whitebeard tips backward, inhales, gathering his last breath, and bellows at the top of his lungs, "ONE PIECE... THE ONE PIECE IS REAL" His words echo throughout all of Marineford, and are heard over the Visual Den Den Mushi and transmitted straight to the viewing public at Sabaody Archipelago. Knowing what impact his final revelation is going to have, Sengoku curses Whitebeard.
As Whitebeard succumbs to his wounds, he thanks his sons and that he was happy that he could sail with all of them for so long. Whitebeard finally passes on, with all his crew members sobbing profusely at the loss of their captain, mourning him without cease. Several Marines on the battlefield stare at him in disbelief, for the great pirate Edward Newgate has died standing up. Even in death, his body refused to collapse. He had so many injuries but he continued to fight, having been inflicted with 267 wounds by swords, 152 wounds by guns, and also being shot with cannons 46 times. However, as his captain's jacket flutters loose from his lifeless body, it becomes clear that out of all these wounds, there is not a single wound on his proud back- in his entire life, Newgate never received a scar from running away.

Whitebeard is now dead. The people at Sabaody watch in shock. Some civilians learn that with Ace and Whitebeard dead, it will shake the foundation of the world. The news is spread across the world; Ace was killed at Marineford and Whitebeard died in the failed attempt to save him. With the Marines seemingly victorious, some people begin to cheer at this news. Rayleigh also watches bidding Whitebeard a nice journey to the afterlife. As Teach is exhausted, the people learn Whitebeard's real name was Edward Newgate, who stood against Gol D. Roger, had a family of pirates and brought down the walls of Marine Headquarters. But even his superhuman abilities were as nothing before the Admirals and the Shichibukai. Doflamingo cheers at the news and believes Teach to be quite a thinker.
The Sabaody crowd begin to ponder about the One Piece actually existing. With word of Whitebeard's death getting out, they wonder about why Blackbeard is in the equation. Teach takes a few breaths and laughs maniacally at his triumph. Marco is driven over the edge, but Vista insists withdrawal. With the pirates fleeing, Vista advises that Jinbe is not to fall for any distractions whilst caring for the still unconscious Luffy. Jinbe begs forgiveness for his inability to save Ace and Whitebeard, but hopes to keep Luffy from further harm. While the Marines rain cannon fire, Akainu recovers from his battle with Whitebeard and makes a pool of lava. Buggy yells that his plan to assassinate Whitebeard has failed and plans to flee Marineford. The clown pirate was helpless to even try to take Whitebeard by surprise during his fight with Teach. Buggy cries that he wants to spend the rest of his life in a hole in the ground. He decides to abandon his crew, but the former prisoners believe Buggy is teaching them sympathy. They begin to cry over their misfortunes but then chase after Buggy dropping their Den Den Mushi.
Teach was surprised that it took so long to kill Whitebeard then his new crew drapes the deceased pirate in a cape. Teach insists that everyone, the Marines and pirates, watch their spectacle and goes into the cape covering both the dead Whitebeard and Teach. Shiryu knows that if their plan fails, they could disband. Nearing the Marine ships, Jinbe implores Luffy to carry on even without Ace. Jinbe thinks back to what Ace told him at Impel Down. Should he die, Ace asks the Fish-Man to look after his brother. He told Ace that only holds a certain number of people in high regard. Carrying Luffy away, Jinbe feels he found the answer to Ace's request. Hancock had hoped to heal Luffy, but leaves him and Jinbe's care. She uses Perfume Femur kicks to disable some Pacifistas. Hancock also considers pushy men to be an extreme turn off. Just as the Marine ship is near, ice covers the water thanks to Aokiji and lava streaks the ground. Akainu then demands that the pirates all be killed.
Akainu demands that if Luffy is turned over, he may let the others off the hook. Jinbe rejects, determined to protect Luffy. Helmeppo and Koby are horrified that Akainu wants to kill Luffy so badly. As some pirates stand to confront Akainu to avenge Whitebeard, Akainu is annoyed and he says they ran away to leave Ace and Whitebeard to die. The admiral withstands some shots and blasts the pirates while Ivankov deploys Emporio Ganmen Seicho Hormone while Inazuma uses Great Scissors to blockade the lava. Desperate to protect Luffy, Ivankov fires a Hell Wink and believes that Luffy has gone off the deep end since Impel Down. One more mistake and Luffy would die. If that were to happen, Ivankov could never face Dragon again. Akainu insists that Ivankov and Inazuma step aside, but the New Kama Queen tells the former that he is one fire. 
Much of Teach's crew are getting impatient to see what Teach has in store for the world. Lafitte announces a grand event to the world and he and Burgess uncover Teach and the lifeless Whitebeard. Blackbeard then says the Shichibukai thing he has put on was fun and decides to go against the Marines. He sucks them into his Black Hole. Teach says in his right hand is his Dark-Dark Fruit power and in his left hand... he punches and causes a tremor like Whitebeard did. As Marineford is crumbling, the Marines worry that eating two Devil Fruits would kill a man, but Teach is somehow able to use two Devil Fruit abilities. Teach's crew is in joy over their captain's newfound power. Having stolen Whitebeard's abilities, Teach will make the world tremble in his every step. Marco realizes that Teach become far beyond normal to use two Devil Fruit powers. Teach announces to all the good-loving people, the pirates and the World Government they must answer to the hand of fate, and fate has chosen Teach to rule the world. Helmeppo is horrified that even with Whitebeard dead, the catastrophe continues with Teach laughing evilly.

Buggy carries the unconscious Jinbe and Luffy insulting Law is a doctor armed with a sword. The Marines recognize Law for aiding and abetting in their fight with the World Nobles at Sabaody. Law calls for Buggy to bring the two pirates to him and the clown dodges a cannonball. The Navy ships begin to close in on Law's submarine while Akainu gloats that Luffy may not do any favors even if he survives the day. He could be the undoing of the Whitebeard Pirates. As the admiral fires a Hound Blaze, the crew of Whitebeard give fire while Marco charges the lava hound. More Marines are deployed to get the remaining Whitebeard Pirates as well as the Blackbeard pirates.
As the pirate continue to fight the Marines, Sengoku fires another shockwave hitting Teach hard. Koby drops clutching his head and begins to have horrible visions of pirates killing Marines and vice versa. Teach recovers and plans to sink all of Marineford. Sengoku vows to kill Teach, but the black-bearded pirate stops the shockwave with a tremor. Burgess moves for an attack, but Garp stops the attack showing loyalty to the Marines. Teach begins to grab at the sky. With the Navy ships getting dangerously close, Bepo yells Jean Bart for ordering him around. As the Navy guns fire, Teach swings his hands down, but the ocean shakes making the Marines miss their target. It is not just Marineford, it is the sky and ocean that is shaking violently. Some Navy and pirate ships are swallowed by the waves while Teach shows joy in his work.
Akainu gives chase to Buggy but is blocked by Vista's party. While Koby cries in despair, Teach needs to learn how to control his new tremor powers. Burgess insists they wait until the crew leaves, but Sengoku believes Teach has gone mad. Teach retorts that playing nice is as nothing.
Then at Sabaody, sirens wail and a tsunami is coming. The people are to leave for Groves 40 through 50.
At Marineford, more Pacifistas are deployed and the Marines begin to overwhelm the pirates. Some of the remaining Whitebeard pirates decide to reject the last order and begin to fight to the death. When the shaking stops, Koby begins to feel sadness. More pirates and Marines are killing each other left and right.
As the order to kill everybody is given, Tashigi tries to tend to an injured marine. She learns the pirates want revenge. Smoker withstands some shots and believes this pointless fights are injustice. Koby is off the deep end thinking of the times he spent with Luffy.
While Akainu strikes down Curiel, he orders the Marines to show no mercy. Koby trips over a dead marine and tries to wake him up, but finds a necklace. He finds a picture of the dead Marine's family.
As Teach yells that there might no one to challenge him, Kizaru fires a light blast at Buggy daring him to come and face him. With insufficient time, Buggy throws Jinbe and Luffy to Jean Bart. With Luffy's injuries far worse than Sabaody, Kizaru prepares to finish Luffy once and for all. Koby yells that it's enough.
Koby reasons that the fighting is done and the Marines are victorious. The young marine calls out that all Marines have families and questions that the Marines need to prove. Akainu tells him to leave and is wasting time. Sensing that Koby does not believe in justice, Akainu moves to execute Koby but a sword stops him. Everyone watches in shock. It was Shanks who stopped the fatal blow, and he says that Koby's speech will change the world whether for better or worse. With Luffy and Jinbe raced below deck, Kizaru almost delivers the coup de grace, but Benn Beckman holds him at gunpoint. With the Marines in shock, Shanks picks up his Straw Hat and announces he will bring an end to the war.

Shanks stands firm before Akainu while Garp recognizes the former for corrupting his grandson into being a pirate. Almost all the pirates and Marines are surprised, while an amused Teach catches notice. The Red-Haired Pirates had arrived. While Law's submarine sails away, his crew members race to save Luffy and Jinbe who are rapidly losing blood. As they prepare for transfusion, Bepo reminds his captain they need to go underwater soon. The Marines learn that Shanks' crew had a run-in with one of the other Four Emperors, Kaido, yesterday. Buggy freaks out at seeing Shanks, as the latter is surprised to see him but the clown pirate doesn't want to be in Shanks' presence. Shanks throws his straw hat to Buggy for the clown to loan to Luffy. The clown pirate yells that he doesn't want anymore favors from the red-haired pirate. Shanks also says he has got a treasure map that could suit Buggy fancy. When Shanks moves to give the map to another, Buggy quickly decides to comply to his former crewmate's request and get the Straw Hat to Luffy. Lucky Roux wonders if Shanks is going to let Luffy leave without a chance to greet him.
With their times flying by, Shanks thinks back to his first meeting with Luffy, and how he sacrificed his arm to save him from the Sea King. He begins to wonder what Luffy would say at their moment. Bepo calls to Law for attention as they don't want the Marines to hit their submarine hard, or for the captain to drown. Buggy then races with the Straw Hat and slings it into Law's hand. The pirate surgeon and Bepo head inside the submarine and it begins to submerge. With the two racing to Luffy's side, Shanks knows that his reunion with Luffy will have to wait. He also thinks back to when he gave his Straw Hat to Luffy and expects it returned in good condition and will meet whence Luffy becomes a great pirate. Once the submarine submerges, Shanks says he can't see Luffy again just yet. Law begins his operation as Akainu ran both Jinbe and Luffy through, but is more worried about the emotional scars that Luffy has suffered.
Meanwhile, Akainu curses Shanks for allowing Luffy's escape while his comrades are determined to finish Luffy with Aokiji firing an Ice Age, threatening to freeze the water. With Luffy's pulse steadying, the submarine is struck, but Jean Bart makes the submarine go full speed for a dive. Just as the ice is inches from giving the submarine a fatal blow, it evades. Bepo breathes a sigh of relief. However, Kizaru fires a Yasakani Sacred Jewel shower, rocking the submarine heavily. Hancock tries to protest. When he stops, the light admiral says that if Law's group survived, luck may not be on the side of the Marines. Hancock hijacks a Marine ship and tells the crew she will capture Luffy on her authority as a Warlord. Shanks stares at the horizon as Luffy leaves the area.
Buggy lashes out at Shanks as the treasure map was all a trick. The Red Haired Pirate Captain says he was just having fun with his old friend and is happy to see him again. The Clown pirate reacts angrily to this and reminds Shanks that if he hadn't spotted him with the Bara Bara no Mi or the map, he would not lose it. Buggy yells that Shanks is a prodigy when it comes to making him angry. He also declares war on Shanks, as his impressed followers internally promise to serve him forever. Shanks leaves Buggy to handle his business with the war, as Buggy protests this but soon realizes he could hitch a ride with Shanks' crew to safely leave Marineford. 
Shanks walks past Marco, informing him that there is no further need for combat and he must resign. Mihawk walks past the Marines as they protest, he firmly tells them while he agreed to fight Whitebeard's crew, Shanks was another matter telling the Marines to quit and he leaves the area. Shanks warns to everyone present on Marineford that their fighting is becoming pointless. Every blow one party lands, it goes back to their own as well. He draws his sword as he tells them that if anyone wants another fight, the red-haired pirate dares the pirates and marines to fight him. The Marines are in shock, while Teach's crew stands in idle. Shanks confronts Teach and asks if he wants to escalate things. An amused Teach compliments Shanks for the scars that he left on Shanks' eye. Just as both crews prepare to duel, Teach laughs as he announces to his crew to resign. He declares he already had what he wanted and doesn't wish for another fight with Shanks, at least not yet. The Blackbeard pirates pull out and leave the area.
Sengoku shifts back to his human form and Shanks sheathes his sword. With Ace and Whitebeard dead, Shanks tells everyone to accept the losses, honor the fallen and leave with their dignity intact. Whitebeard's crew mourn the loss of their captain and the Marines tend to their fallen. At Sabaody, Reuder remarks that the war seems to be ending.
Shanks requests that Ace and Whitebeard be given a proper burial and doesn't want their corpses paraded through like trophies. With the Marines ultimately victorious, they want to string their dead enemies up as proof of their triumph. However, Sengoku consents and allows Shanks to give Ace and Whitebeard the proper burial, something that the pirate thanks. Sengoku then orders the injured to be tended to and announces the war is finally over. As the wounded are gathered, Garp orders the soldiers not to lose anymore good men while he sheds tears at his loss.
Shanks then looks upon the bodies of Ace and Whitebeard as he sadly looks on.

Sengoku has declared the war officially over. While the Marines and the people of the world are celebrating the Marines' victory in the war, they lose sense of what really was going on. They soon find out that with Whitebeard dead, more ruthless pirates will be coming ashore and torture the people. More pirates now know that the One Piece is real and so, more pirates will begin to form in search for One Piece. Meanwhile, Lieutenant Commander Brannew tells Sengoku about Impel Down's state. Magellan is severely injured and blaming himself for the defeat. Many prisoners escaped while some were taken in by Blackbeard. Sengoku is shocked at this news and tells Brannew to get their files, wanted posters and all their information but he denies and says that the World Government intends to keep it secret. In response, Sengoku becomes angry and screams, "Damn them!"
Elsewhere, in the backstreets of Marineford, Gecko Moria is being attacked by Pacifistas commanded by Donquixote Doflamingo, who states that Moria is too weak to continue being a Warlord of the Sea, and that it would be better if the people believed he died in the war. When Moria angrily demands if this was Sengoku's order, Donquixote told him to try higher. Meanwhile, the other Supernovas (except Luffy and Zoro) were witnessing the whole Marineford fight from their ships far away. Scratchmen Apoo questions why Trafalgar Law, known for his brutality, would save Monkey D. Luffy and states there must be some catch. Hawkins thinks it is odd that the odds of Luffy being alive never reaches zero. Eustass Kid tells his crew that nothing is over however, it is the beginning of the New Era, one which no one has ever laid eyes on.
Meanwhile in the Heart Pirates' submarine, Bepo feels really hot because of his fur and wants to surface. After they surface, Bepo looks to see if all sides are safe but finds out a Marine ship was beside them. He also sees Salome and is shocked about it. Boa Hancock lands in the submarine from the Marine ship and tells them that she turned all the Marines in the ship to stone. Law comes out and tells her about Luffy's condition. Emporio Ivankov along with his escapees from Impel Down shows up on the Marines ship and talks about how brave Luffy was and what made him lose consciousness. He also asked why Law saved Luffy, but before he could say anything Ivankov stopped him and said that sometimes instincts tells you what to do. Jinbe comes out from the submarine, still heavily wounded and tells them how shameful he feels because he failed to protect anyone precious to him while Law tells him to rest or else the wound might open up. The episode ends after Luffy is seen, still in a coma.

In West Blue, a village - Lascamp - was being attacked. The Marines already have their hands full with the surge of piracy after the war at Marineford. Since not all information was divulged, some of the Marines were wondering how the fall of Whitebeard and a victory of the Marines would lead to an increase of pirates flooding the seas. Whereas, a few days after the war, Foodvalten Island in the New World is being attacked. The island was under Whitebeard's territory however, since Whitebeard died in the war, the island became vulnerable. Brownbeard, a pirate, then declared to Foodvalten Islanders that he will be their ruler.
Ivankov left with the other escapees from Impel Down and they bid their goodbyes to Jinbe and the unconscious Luffy. Meanwhile, the Kuja ship has met with the Heart Pirates submarine and Hancock has decided to have Luffy be treated at the Island of Women - Amazon Lily. As a result of Kuja laws, Luffy and the Heart pirates were not allowed into the Kuja Palace but were instead allowed to stay on the Gulf of the Island of Women. Boa Hancock, very sad that Luffy is still unconscious refuses to eat. Luffy, after days of being unconscious came through with events of Ace's release and death played in his memory. Luffy awoke destroying the submarine and yelling "Where is Ace?".
Crew members of the Heart Pirates tried immobilizing Luffy, however, he easily pushed them off. Distraught at not finding Ace, Luffy went into the forest, destroying trees. On remembering what occurred at Marineford, Luffy hit his head on trees, telling the memory to disappear. Then, Jinbe appeared. He told Luffy the war is ended and tried telling him about Ace, however, Luffy told him not to speak. After coming to the acceptance of Ace's death, Luffy wept uncontrollably.

As Luffy and his crew were running low on food supplies, they discovered an island known as the Hungry-la Island. As Luffy, Nami, Sanji and Chopper explore the island, they encounter Toriko travelling with Komatsu. Toriko initially mistook Chopper as potential food and was about to eat him. After encountering some Roasted Boars and clearing up their misunderstandings, the two groups search for a large bird which Toriko and Luffy manage to beat. As they spend the night sampling their spoils, Nami and Komatsu are kidnapped by a group of Cocoalas. As the gang head towards a mountain where a delicious fruit is said to exist and where the Cocoalas have taken Nami and Komatsu, the gang end up against a fierce group of lions, but are aided by Toriko's allies, Coco and Sunny. They later find Nami and Komatsu being held captive by a giant Cocoala and work together to defeat it. Afterwards, an eruption occurs, revealing the entire island to be one giant dessert. After Luffy and crew gather the provisions they need, they set off on their journey as Toriko continues his search for his Full Course menu.

Ten years prior to the story, there was the peaceful Fusha Village. Mt. Corvo was the most treacherous.
Garp dragged his now rubbery grandson Luffy along, hoping to make him a Marine instead of a pirate. Curly Dadan was surprised by Garp's presence alongside mountain bandits Dogra and Magra. With Ace now ten years old, Dadan's family think they will be turning Ace over to Garp, but he left Luffy in his care. If Dadan's family didn't raise Luffy, they could spend the rest of their days in jail. Curly angry with Luffy's presence.
The young Ace arrived and was introduced to Luffy by Garp. The two boys glared at each other with grumpy faces. Luffy expected Ace to apologize for his action. As Luffy searched for Ace, he was caught by bandits and Dogra told the goons that the young Luffy would be staying with them. The bandits began fighting over food, and the young rubber boy didn't get a piece of meat.
Curly Dadan explained her bandit gang's story, while Ace was eating. All the meat was from the bison that Ace had taken down. The bandit woman expected Luffy to work hard and told him to grow up fast. The straw hatted boy told he could survive in the jungle and hoped to be a pirate. He followed Ace outside.
Luffy chased Ace introducing himself and is not mad for being spat on. He wanted to be friends, but Ace knocked a tree down and sent it rolling to Luffy. In the Corvo jungle, Ace was crossing a bridge when Luffy caught up. The red shirted boy smacked Luffy and he fell into a gorge.
When Ace returned, he had just caught a fish and didn't say where Luffy was. Dogra and Magra worried for Luffy's condition and were concerned about Garp's reaction. Curly drunkly said that Luffy should look after himself. Ace thought back on how the other pirates mocked his biological father. Dadan decided to expel Ace as he is the devil's son.
A week later, while the bandits rested, Dadan was called up and Luffy was seen alive and well. The straw hatted boy said he was chased by wolves. The next morning, Luffy continued to chase Ace and ignored the chores Dadan wanted him to do. Ace began to run off while Luffy followed suit. Luffy is nearly eaten by crocs. The next day, Luffy continued to chase Ace, while the latter ignored him and dropped rocks on him. On the tenth day, Luffy is nearly eaten by a snake. He was undeterred. After months, Ace continued to run from Luffy.
With Dadan over the edge, she finds Luffy's face stung by bees. He again tried to chase Ace, with the latter having trouble. Just then, a large tiger appeared. Ace tried to get Luffy to flee. Then a wild bear appeared and the straw hatted boy ran away. When the rain stopped, he continued his chase on Ace for over three months. At the end of the Corvo forest, Luffy saw ruins.

Despite being beaten up by Porchemy, Luffy insists on not saying a single thing to them about Ace and Sabo's theft. Then Porchemy decides to go on the hard way and brings out his special sword. The moment he was going to kill Luffy, Ace and Sabo on a rush destroy the room they were in and fight Porchemy. Ace tells Sabo to pick up Luffy and make a run while he'll be confronting Porchemy. Sabo asks why won't Ace escape with them on which he replies that he never runs away from a fight. Sabo then gets into such a situation, that he leaves Luffy on the ground and decides to fight alongside Ace. Their battle is won by Ace and Sabo surprisingly. Then the other shocked Bluejam Pirates report Porchemy's loss and the two kid's victory. Bluejam goes to Porchemy and sees him badly wounded. Disgusted that his finest crew member was defeated by mere kids, Bluejam kills him with a Flintlock Pistol.
After recovering from their injuries, Luffy starts to nag. Ace tells him to stop nagging and disturbing them. Luffy tells him not to die ever because he is his only family apart from Garp. Ace then reminisces of his past, back when he was wondering whether the existence of Gol D. Roger's son would have been right, on which the people answered that he would be a devil who wouldn't deserve to be born. Ace accepts Luffy's reason and starts a quarrel with him commenting about who is the strongest until Sabo steps in and stops them. He then says how if he stays in the forest, Bluejam's crew might find him and potentially kill him, so he requests to stay with the Dadan Family.
The next morning, Luffy, Ace, and Sabo are found sleeping by Dogra, Pochi, and Magra which results in them waking Dadan up. Dadan proceeds to wake up Ace and Luffy but neither provide an answer, so she wakes up Sabo himself. Sabo introduces himself to her, and manages to convince her into letting him stay with them. A short time later, the three decide to head out, but before leaving, Sabo warns Dadan that Bluejam's crew might pass by since they beat up one of his crew members and stole from them. Luffy decides that he wants to get food first, so Ace and Sabo go along with it. Sabo and Ace manage to catch an enormous fish, and while they are eating, Sabo asks Luffy what fruit he ate, and Ace says that exchanging the ability to swim in order to be a rubber man is stupid. Luffy decides to show Sabo his most recently developed technique, Gomu Gomu no Fusen, and while he is off guard, Ace decides to play with him by kicking him around which leads to Luffy falling into the river. As he is sinking, an enormous crocodile appears and swallows Luffy whole. Ace and Sabo get angry and defeat the crocodile in order to rescue Luffy. They decide to eat the crocodile for supper but while they are carrying it back, Sabo suddenly tells them that he has to check on something and asks both Luffy and Ace to accompany him. They realize that Bluejam's crew is still looking for them when they return to the Ace and Sabo's original hideout, so they decide to take a look around Gray Terminal. The three are quickly discovered by the Bluejams but manage to escape them. 
Back at Mt. Colubo, the Dadan Family is discussing over what should be done about Luffy and company starting a conflict with the Bluejam Pirates. They say things such as the Dadan Family is done for, or that they will just all get massacred, which angers Dadan and leads her to end up saying that if the Bluejams indeed do come here, they'll just turn them in. A member says that even if they turn them in, Bluejam won't be satisfied, so the end solution for them ends up being to just feign ignorance. Dadan decides to practice, but they end up being so terrible at lying that she admits that it's hopeless. The episode ends with Luffy returning with Ace, Sabo, and the crocodile.

Sabo, Luffy, and Ace continued their adventures and grew stronger day by day. They beat up a crocodile and then dressed up as a seller of Grey Terminal going into the Goa Kingdom pretending to be selling crocodile leather for the nobles to the guards. They beat up some thugs and thieves on their way to the nobles and they realized it was the three kids. When they get inside the city, every noble was disgusted by their disguise for being so dirty. They sold the crocodile for a lot of money. They then headed straight to a restaurant to eat ramen.
The manager of the restaurant refused to let them inside the restaurant, but Sabo gave him a precious jewel, a bribe that immediately changed the owner's mind. After being taken to their own private room, they relaxed and ate a lot of food. When the waiter girl became tired of delivering the extra servings to them, she went inside the room and saw a long hand stretching and grabbing the bowls from her hands. Scared by this, she reported back to the manager. When the manager and the waiter girl checked inside to see more, they witnessed the three kids greedily eating the ramen bowls. Seeing they were caught, Luffy, Sabo, and Ace smashed through the window, jumped out of the building, and made a run for it. While running, a noble called Sabo by his name, which confused Luffy and Ace. Ace asked Sabo for an explanation only to see his friend deny everything and state that the noble had mistaken him for someone else. 
When they arrived at Grey Terminal, Ace and Luffy convinced Sabo to tell them what Sabo was hiding from them. Sabo told them that he was in fact a noble. Luffy and Ace were more confused and both poked their nose. Sabo then decided to tell the truth. He had been born from a noble called Outlook III and his wife. As a small child, his parents had urged him to study a lot and come top at his exams so that he could marry the royal family's daughter, in order to get wealth, fame, and a higher status. Sabo had wondered if that would make him happy and they had replied yes, lying to him. Sabo had become an intelligent and brilliant student. He had studied a lot believing that he would eventually be happy.
One day, while his father was occupied working hard, Sabo came to him and showed him a picture he had drawn to see his father's opinion. In anger, his father tore the drawing up and told him to go study, which made Sabo feel really sad. To make matters worse, he had a fight with the royal family's son who had used a knife to beat him. Sabo got injured and so did the royal son. Sabo said to his mother he was injured from a knife and he started it but his mother ignored it and slapped him. Realizing that they were using him, Sabo went to a new place known as Grey Terminal where everybody was free and fun-loving and had no worries. Sabo went there day by day and eventually loved that place and spent most of his time there. This led to his grades dropping significantly. His father noticed it and told him to never go to that "stinky and rotten" place again. Sabo could not agree with that order and eventually escaped from home and started living there.
So this was the life story of Sabo. Ace then vowed to the two of his friends that he would become such a pirate one day, everybody would know his name. Sabo also vowed that too, but much to their surprise, Luffy told them that he would become Pirate King. Ace and Sabo both mocked Luffy afterwards. Ace then brought three cups and a stolen bottle of sake from Curly Dadan and told them that if men drink together, they become brothers, so the three boys did, officially becoming "brothers".

Ace, Sabo, and Luffy chase down a Danpa and succeeds to catch it, but a tiger steals it. To get revenge, the three brothers put fish on their back to lure the tiger, but a bear that can match the tiger appears. Ace attacks the bear, but it gets angry and chases the three brothers. It is then stopped by a former pirate captain named Naguri using Haki.
Sabo reveals that Ace is related to Pirate King Gol D. Roger. Luffy asks Ace about Roger, but Ace does not like his father being mentioned, so Sabo and Luffy and Ace say that they will break their relationship as "brothers". Meanwhile, Sabo's father goes to Bluejam and tells him that he wants Sabo back. The episode ends as Dadan discusses the visit of a certain world noble with Dogra and Magra.

Ace and Sabo get chased by the tiger because Ace attacked the tiger. It had been a week since Ace and Sabo have seen Luffy when they reunite. Naguri has a flashback to his loss to Gol D. Roger, which angers Ace due to his bad history surrounding his father, which triggers him to attack Naguri. After a quick battle between Ace and Naguri, Luffy, Ace, and Sabo train while they help make the pirate ship for Naguri. Once the long training is done with, it is time for them to fight the big tiger. Ace and Sabo fail to defeat it at first, and Luffy is about to get killed by the tiger when Ace and Sabo stop its paw. They all decide that they must work together to defeat it.
Sabo distracts the tiger while Luffy makes a slingshot with his gomu gomu no mi powers. Sabo gets the tiger to run toward the slingshot, and Ace crouches into the slingshot load; Luffy lets go and performs a "Gomu Gomu No Rocket". Ace is able to defeat the tiger. In the end, Ace decides all three of them helped to defeat the tiger, so no one is officially the captain. Naguri then heads out to sea. The episode ends with Bluejam telling his crewmates to tell Sabo's father that they found him.

The episode starts with the base of Ace, Luffy and Sabo being hit by a windy storm. Luffy had responsibility to look after their pirate flag being "uncool" to lose their flag. A huge gust of wind comes and blows Luffy off, Ace and Sabo laugh at Luffy. The three brothers go to the Gray Terminal to search for materials to rebuild their hideout being destroyed by the storm. Luffy wants a telescope, but Ace tells him that they will not find useful things there. On their way to the Gray Terminal, they are being watched by people hidden behind some trees.
While looking for parts, Sabo find a telescope but realizes that he is surrounded by the Bluejam Pirates. Bluejam states that he did not know that one of the "three infamous brats" was a Noble. The Bluejam Pirates attempt to grab Sabo, but he puts up a fight when Ace and Luffy appear in a barrel. The three of them put up a good fight when until Bluejam pulls out a gun. While unprepared, the Bluejam Pirates grab all three of the brothers. Then Outlook III appeared, and Sabo was wondering why he was so desperate to get him back by hiring Pirates to retrieve him. Sabo's Father gets upset that the pirates hit Ace, since he got his "trashy kids blood" over him. Sabo was scared that the Bluejam Pirates were gonna kill Ace and Luffy, so he agreed to listen to his Father since they are his brothers. Sabo starts crying since it's the end of his dreams, dropping the telescope that Luffy wanted and breaking it. Ace and Luffy were taken back to Bluejam's hideout where he unties them and offers them jobs on his pirate crew, Ace and Luffy agrees. Their job with the other pirates was to take some barrels to certain locations. Luffy does not like the idea of Sabo being gone, but Ace says they do not know what is best for Sabo so they will see what goes. Sabo is being investigated by a person to see if he was a criminal. Sabo said that Ace and Luffy had nothing to do about his judgment. Sabo's Father threatens Sabo what will happen to his two brothers if he does not listen, but Sabo states that they did these crimes by their freewill, which makes his father angry and kick his chair and make Sabo fall. Sabo's Father in the end bribes the investigator to say nothing has happened so as not to ruin the family's reputation. Sabo is taken home where he meets his new brother Sterry. Sterry was adopted by Sabo's family since he had lots of promise. If Sabo wouldn't be the successor then Sterry would replace him.
Sabo was in his room when Sterry came in and told Sabo that he had "devils luck". Sterry tells Sabo that if he had stayed in the Gray Terminal, he would have died. Sabo grabs Sterry's shirt and demands him to tell him everything. Sterry tells Sabo that only if there is a fire at the Gray Terminal, "then this country will be clean". Sabo realizing this escapes from his house and runs away. Sabo overhears his Father's men saying that the Bluejam Pirates will burn down the Gray Terminal.
Back at the hideout of the three brothers, Luffy is missing Sabo. Ace reminds him that they agreed to let Sabo go, but Luffy still has dreams of Sabo (and a telescope).
Sabo waited till the next morning to see peoples' reactions of the fire that day if the fire is true or not. Sabo notices that everyone is so calm and thought that everything should be fine. Sabo's Father states it's a great windy day... for a fire, then finds out that Sabo is not in the house studying and thus orders his men to look for Sabo. Sabo goes up to a couple of people about if there will be a fire in the Gray Terminal, and everyone knows. The people of the town are being quiet about the subject since they do not want people from the outside to learn about it, which shocks Sabo, wondering if anyone cared. Ace and Luffy is seen with Bluejam, and Bluejam tells them that they have a big task tonight about their barrel jobs. Sabo finally realizes why his father hired pirates to search for him, to save him from the fire and maintain his status. Sabo starts running to the Gray Terminal to tell Ace and Luffy, but he is seen by Sabo's Father's men. The episode ends with Sabo saying "Run! Ace! Luffy!".

The episode starts where the previous episode ended, where Sabo is being chased by his father's men. Sabo keeps falling over which allowed his father's men to catch him. Sabo fails to warn his brothers about the fire.
Bluejam reveals to Ace and Luffy that there will be a fire at the Gray Terminal, also saying that he is not the mastermind of this operation. Now that Ace and Luffy know about the plan, Bluejam asks if they have any hidden treasure.
Sabo's father throws Sabo into the wine cellar stating that Sabo has caused nothing but trouble and it was the right decision to adopt Sterry, locking Sabo inside. Sabo demands his father to open the door to let him go, but Sabo knows that his father would not listen to him so he escapes through a metal grate in the cellar and tries to help his 'Brothers' and Gray Terminal.
As Sabo lays on the ground beaten by the guards after trying to save the people of the Gray Terminal, a hooded man appears and asks what's wrong. Sabo confides the truth of the fire to him and that the nobles and king are behind it. He goes on saying the kingdom smells worse than the Gray Terminal and so do the people and as long as he stays in the kingdom, he will never be free, and crying, admits his shame of ever being born a noble. The hooded figure is revealed to be Dragon who shows great shock on his face because of what Sabo said and that the Goa Kingdom has now forced their own children say such things. He comforts the boy saying he understands and he too was born in the Goa Kingdom and listens to what he has to say.
The night was very windy and Bluejam's men get out their guns to shoot the barrels to start the fire. The Dadan Family could see the fire which shocked Curly Dadan. Some of the citizens of Goa seem shocked to see that there was a fire at the Gray Terminal. Some men are seen coming into the city of Goa, but are attacked by the men blocking the gate, to wipe away the shame of the Goa Kingdom. They close the gate to the city so that Gray Terminal is cut off from it. The poor people that lived in the Gray Terminal were trapped and could not even escape to the water since it was blocked by the fire and the forest entrance was also blocked. Bluejam and his crew were proud of what they did. Bluejam gets a flashback showing the Goa King saying that he will become a Nobles if they burn down the Gray Terminal. Bluejam heads to the gate, but the gate will not open after telling them what he did. Bluejam realizes he has been cheated by the nobles. He was furious and went to look for an escape route when he found Luffy and Ace. He demanded the whereabouts of their treasure. After being quite persistent they told him the whereabouts and still he tried taking them as prisoners. That is when Ace unleashed his Haki and all of them were knocked out except Bluejam. He is in awe and wants to know what Luffy and Ace did to his crew. He grabs Ace and says he is going to kill him and points a gun to his head, ending the episode.

The Celestial Dragon, Saint Jalmack, shoots Sabo's ship again, destroying it, much to the shock of all the citizens watching. Meanwhile, Luffy and the mountain bandits worry about Ace and Dadan, who were trapped in the Gray Terminal with Bluejam. Soon after both Dadan and Ace return, making Luffy and the other bandits happy. Ace tells everybody that after they managed somehow to defeat Bluejam, they could not return as the fire became too powerful. Dadan ran through the fire making a path for her and Ace to escape but she was severely burnt because of it. Ace took care of Dadan, but could not escape with her as the military was there exterminating the remaining survivors, but after a while, they returned. Back at the house, Dadan questions Ace about not running away to protect himself to which he replies that if he ever did, he would always feel that he had left something behind and that he could lose someone close to him. In this case he had to protect Luffy from danger. Dadan remembers Garp's words about Gol D. Roger, commenting in her mind on how similar they are.
Dogra returns from town and informs the others about Sabo's death. Ace, enraged by this news attacks Dogra and then sets out to kill the one responsible for it, but he is stopped by Dadan and tied up to a tree.
The next day, Ace receives Sabo's letter asking him to take care of Luffy after which he breaks down in tears at the loss of his brother. After hearing the news about Sabo, Luffy cannot stop crying. Later, Ace consoles Luffy and convinces him to live free without any regrets, something that Sabo was unable to achieve.

Ace starts to care for Luffy more as a brother after he was nearly mauled to death by a bear. Ace then sets off on his own seven years later, bidding the mountain bandits and Luffy farewell. Dogra comes by a few months later and shows Luffy a newspaper that talks about Ace and his new crew. Three years later, Luffy sets out from the Goa Kingdom. He then beats up the Lord of the Coast for eating Shanks' arm and to show the results of his forest training.
Present time: Luffy proclaims that he is weak in front of Jinbe, implying that he cannot be the Pirate King like he wanted, considering that he wasn't able to protect Ace or his friends.

Luffy is still devastated over Ace's death.
Meanwhile, Garp visits Foosha Village and sinks three pirate ships on his way. He assures the villagers that the village will be protected under his name. Dadan then storms out of Makino's bar and pummels Garp for not doing anything to save Ace at the war. Makino stops Dadan from doing anymore harm, and says that Garp must be the one suffering the most. Dadan says that that's not true, and that Luffy must be the one suffering the most because he loved his brother so much. This causes Makino to run away in tears after remembering Ace and Luffy in their childhood. Garp later tells everyone that Luffy has probably escaped and is still alive. Dadan says Luffy is stupid, but she would take his side no matter what type of pirate he becomes. She then yelled at the top of her voice "Luffy do not be defeated."
In the New World, the Red Hair Pirates and the remaining Whitebeard Pirates tend to Ace's and Whitebeard's burials. Marco thanks Shanks for all his help. Silently, Shanks tells Luffy it is okay to cry, but more importantly, to move on.
Back on Amazon Lily, Luffy continues to blame his weakness on his failure at saving Ace. Jinbe tells him to stop, but Luffy says that since it his body he can do whatever he wants with it. Jinbe replies by saying that if so, then Ace's body was his own as well and he was free to die, regardless of what we wanted. Luffy starts to fight Jinbe, but Jinbe easily defeats him. Jinbe finally stops him, and implores him to see not what he has lost, but what he still has. Reminded of his friends, Luffy calms down and, in tears, expresses his wish to see them again.

The episode starts off with Zoro on Kuraigana Island, with Perona accompanying him. He is seen fighting against humandrills. He manages to keep equal grounds with them, but is then thrown against the giant cross. The humandrills are about to attack, but then are mysteriously frightened. A mysterious figure approaches them and the baboons run off in fright. The figure is actually Hawk-Eyes Mihawk. Zoro looks shocked to see him.
The scene changes to Torino Kingdom, where Chopper is hanging over a hot pot, about to be eaten. The people who caught him finally realize that he is not a raccoon, but a talking reindeer. The hot pot burns Chopper's butt, and the people put a cream on it that instantly cools it down. They tell Chopper that they make all kinds of medicines out of plants, and that because of those birds they cannot get to them. More and more people are getting sick and their supply is dangerously low. They decide to go to war against the birds. Chopper decides to talk to the birds and tell them about the situation.
Chopper goes up the tree and tells the birds about what the humans need. The birds reply by saying that they will not let them have the treasure. Chopper does not understand, and the humans are about to fight the birds. More birds arrive, so the humans shoot an arrow at them, but Chopper guards the birds with Guard Point. He ends up falling from the blast, but is saved by the chick he befriended from before and its mother. The mother bird talks with the others, and they all come to an understanding. The reason the birds were so ferocious was because they liked collecting shiny things and had a whole treasure trove in their old home, but the humans on that island took that treasure and forced the birds out of their homes. The birds, thinking that these humans would do the same, made sure that none of them could come up the tree.
Chopper, exhausted from the effort, falls unconscious, and wakes up bandaged and finds his wounds healed. He goes outside to see the humans and birds working together by exchanging plants and shiny things. A News Coo then comes and gives him the newspaper. Chopper's reaction shows that it is not good news.
The scene changes again to Weatheria, where Nami is working in the weather fields, cultivating Weather Balls. A News Coo arrives, and Nami sees something horrible too. In the Boin Archipelago, Usopp has eaten too much. A News Coo arrives again, and Usopp sees the news as well. In Kamabakka Kingdom, Sanji is dressed as a woman and is receiving the same news as well, turning him back into a man. At Tequila Wolf, Nico Robin is talking to one of the Revolutionary Army. They ask her to come with them, but she says that she has to meet up with her crew. They say that they have information on the Straw Hat Pirates, and tell Robin the news. On Karakuri Island, Franky finally gets some cola, and defeats the animal he met inside Dr. Vegapunk's laboratory. A piece of paper is printed, and Franky finds out what the news is. In Harahettania, Brook is composing music, and tries to do a 45 degrees angle, but ends up doing 60. He goes back to his music, and sees piles of papers underneath. Brook also reads the news.
The scene goes back to Zoro, where he asks Mihawk the reason he is here. He replies by saying that he lives here, and asks Zoro the same question. He replies by saying that Kuma sent him here. Mihawk explains why Luffy was at Marineford and tells Zoro what all of the Straw Hats found out: that Luffy's brother, "Fire Fist" Ace, died before Luffy's eyes.

In the Calm Belt the Heart Pirates notice a huge Sea King fighting. A man comes out of the sea. They are surprised to see Dark King Silvers Rayleigh. Rayleigh remarks that they have met at Sabaody Archipelago. He says that his ship sank in a storm and he had no choice but to swim. He asks Trafalgar Law seeing the straw hat, if Luffy is on the island.
The scene shifts to some Kujas who have just gone to deliver food to Luffy. Meanwhile, all the women of the island discuss Luffy. Boa Hancock imagines Luffy as her husband and Nyon lectures her as usual. Jinbe carries Luffy on his back and tells him to be careful with his wound. They look for Law and his crew, but to their surprise they find Rayleigh. Rayleigh gives Luffy his signature straw hat. He says Law has just left the place. The scene shifts to Law's submarine, where Law says to himself that he cannot wait to see "D" causing trouble again.
Kuja pirates meet Rayleigh and they are glad to meet him. Luffy and Jinbe start having their meal. Luffy says to Rayleigh that he needs to head to Sabaody Archipelago to meet his friends, but Rayleigh tells him to remember what happened there. He says to Luffy that he would give a suggestion before he reunites with his crew.
The scene shifts to Usopp attempting to escape from the Boin Archipelago, but being too weak to do so.

After hearing the suggestion from Rayleigh, Luffy can not decide whether to follow it or not because of his promise to his friends to meet at the Sabaody Archipelago. Rayleigh says that he would give a second suggestion to Luffy.
Meanwhile on Weatheria, Nami tries to escape from the island, but fails to do so. She is then held captive by residents of the island thinking she is a traitor and a bad thief. She becomes outraged and punches Haredas. She explains that she need to get off the island to meet her captain. She starts to cry for her captain's failure to rescue his brother and how much Luffy needs them. The residents let her out, feeling pity for her. Nami runs out, taking Haredas as her guide and hostage. The people of the island follow her thinking that she is a traitor again, thinking that her tears were crocodile tears in order to let her out.
On Karakuri Island, Kitton informs to his grandpa that Franky is acting outrageously. Franky comes and asks to give him a ship but the request was refused as they did not have any ship available on the island. He is then informed that there is an ice breaker developed by Vegapunk at his laboratory. He breaks into Vegapunk's laboratory. After Franky breaks into the laboratory, he accidentally pushes the self-destruct button thinking it was a pirate jolly roger. The laboratory then explodes, destroying many of Vegapunk's blueprints. The incident would later be known as the Nightmare of Baldimore throughout the whole world.

Zoro wakes up at Mihawk's castle where Perona is crying over Gecko Moria's death. Mihawk is annoyed by her crying and tells her that Moria's death may not be for real as when he left the Summit War of Marineford, Moria was still alive. Zoro then asks Mihawk if he knows more about Luffy as well as a way to get off the island. Mihawk answers with that he does not know anything more about Luffy and tells Zoro that there is a boat he could use to escape the island. Zoro is then seen dragging the boat through the forest, and after a while, the humandrills come to attack, as Zoro expected. After fighting for a while, Zoro realizes, much to his surprise, that they have started copying his own sword style, Three Sword Style. Back at Mihawk's castle, Perona is worrying about Zoro. Mihawk tells her to go search for him if she is that worried about him and she goes off. Mihawk then appears behind Zoro at the forest and explains how the humandrills learned their violent behavior by observing humans. He then reveals that the Shikkearu Kingdom had a big war, a few years before he moved in, from which the humandrills learned how to fight and use weapons. He tells Zoro to go back to the castle and rest. Zoro declines the invitation and continues fighting the humandrills.
The shamans at Namakura Island are wondering what has happened to Brook. Brook then appears and gives them a pile of music sheets. The shamans mistake them for talismans to be used against the Longarm Tribe and put them everywhere. At the same time, longarms approach the shamans. Brook explains that the talismans are simply note sheets and the shamans get depressed. He then plays them a song, which gives them the energy to fight. So they wind up capturing many longarms. Brook then gives them a speech about how it is important to fight on their own and tells them to release the longarms, as he made a "Devil's contract" with them. The shamans release them and then Brook gives yet another speech about how fighting is pointless. The longarms however tie up Brook and take him away. One of the shamans states that they have a crisis and they should summon another devil right away.
Rayleigh gives Luffy the second option. Both Jinbe and Hancock are surprised by it and state that it is too harsh. Rayleigh says it is up to Luffy to decide and so Luffy makes his decision. Luffy says that he wants to meet his crew, and tells them he wants to go back to Marineford, the place where his own brother, Ace, had recently died.

The episode starts with the Gates of Justice opening, as Luffy, Rayleigh and Jinbe beat up all of the Marines on a battleship and forcing one of them to open the gates.
Meanwhile, Chopper is at the Torino Kingdom, preparing to go back to Sabaody Archipelago. The natives give him food and supplies. Chopper admits that he would prefer to stay and learn medicine on the island but he must go back to Luffy so he can help him. He walks, but then he remembers, that he does not have transport. The giant chick appears and tells him that his dad will give him a ride. Chopper is seen having fun on the back of the giant bird in midair. The News Coo then appears and gives Chopper the paper. While reading the newspaper, he is shown to be shocked at something.
Meanwhile, Robin is riding with an escort at Tequila Wolf. She is holding a portrait of herself in her lap. Soran gave Robin the portrait. She thanked Soran, who asked her if they will meet again. Robin agreed. After that a revolutionary told Robin, that Dragon wanted to see her. She did not agree with that and said that she has to meet up with her crew. Robin listens as one of the revolutionaries tells her about why the giant bridge was built. A few revolutionaries then give Robin the latest newspaper through a crow. She reads it and the contents leave a smile on her face.
Sanji is shown at Kamabakka Kingdom, trying to convince Caroline to give him a boat. Soon enough, Ivankov appears as his female form, coming from a battleship. Sanji gets multiple nosebleeds from looking at 'his' body but Ivankov changes back to male and Sanji finally starts to ask him about Luffy and tells him that he is a part of Luffy's crew. Ivankov presents multiple bounty posters to Sanji. After Ivankov showed the drawn picture of Sanji, Sanji angrily refuses to say it is him. Ivankov gets mad and scolds Sanji until Sanji relented and admits the drawn poster was his. After comparing the faces, Ivankov is not convinced that Sanji is one of the crew, because of the badly drawn wanted poster. After this scuffle, Sanji requests a ship to get out of the kingdom, which was rejected by Ivankov. Sanji told Ivankov that he will swim out of the island, which made Ivankov believe that he was a part of Luffy's crew. Sanji then offers a one-on-one fight. He goes all-out at the beginning. Ivankov pretends to struggle against him but ultimately defeats him. After the fight, he decides to tell Sanji about Luffy as it will not harm Luffy as the whole world now knows about him. Sanji receives the newspaper and is shocked by the news in it.
At Baltigo, where Dragon's headquarters is, Dragon is talking to Ivankov via a Den Den Mushi about the news and his son. He also states that he has to gather all of his commanders, because Whitebeard's death will cause quite the uproar. Ivankov asks him if he read the newspaper and said that he is also surprised by what Luffy did at Marineford.

The episode started with a view of Marineford being rebuilt. It showed a room full of vice-admirals as Lieutenant Commander Brannew talked about how Luffy is revealed to have survived the Summit War of Marineford and caused trouble again. A flashback followed, showing what happened two days ago. Two reporters are seen talking about how the Marines will go after the pirates involved in the war. Suddenly, some Marines see the warship which Luffy, Jinbe and Rayleigh are on. They made a full circle around Marineford before entering the bay (which is done in a funeral). After that, all three of them got to the plaza. Luffy then ran toward the Ox Bell and rang it sixteen times. Afterwards, he went to the largest crack from the battle in the ground and dropped a bouquet of flower in it and held his hat to his chest in a manner of paying respect. Reporters who were at the scene excitedly took photographs of the incident. Soon afterwards, a huge whale-shark appeared in the bay as Luffy, Jinbe and Rayleigh escaped from Marineford. After that, the newspapers printed the story and delivered it to all around the world, including Water 7, Sabaody Archipelago, Arabasta, and Foosha Village. The flashback ends as Brannew stated that it is humiliating for them to have let Luffy go.
After that there was a scene showing the Five Elders discussing who should fill the vacancies in the Shichibukai positions and that Blackbeard was turning out to be a lot of trouble. They also comment on how those with the "D" are beginning to stir up trouble at the same time.
The next scene showed World Government Commander-in-Chief Kong and former Fleet Admiral Sengoku discussing Sengoku's retirement. Sengoku also recommended Admiral Aokiji to be the next Fleet Admiral.
The scene changed to Koby, Helmeppo, and a doctor in the hospital, discussing how Koby has obtained Kenbunshoku Haki. Koby, talking within himself states that he feels different with this new power and he has to train more to become stronger; as strong as "him" ("him" referring to Luffy).
After that, Admiral Aokiji and Smoker talked about what Luffy did at Marineford and about Smoker's transfer to the Marine base G-5.
In the New World, Eustass Kid and his crew were talking about Luffy's actions. Kid asked what the Ox Bell is. Killer explained what it is and the reason he thinks why Luffy rang it sixteen times.
The scene changes to Capone Bege's ship, which was being pulled up to a huge black ball in the sky, and Urouge's ship, which was approaching an island that was constantly being hit by lightning. An old woman offered to sell the crew some umbrellas. It then goes back to Kid as he declared that he will defeat Luffy in the New World.

On an island in the Grand Line, Buggy's crew is crying and lamenting how much they have missed their captain. Buggy is also crying and lamenting that he had missed them so much and was stating how they had so much trust in him to wait for him. Alvida commented to herself saying that those guys (Buggy's crew) had given up on him a long time ago. Then Mohji, Cabaji, and Richie introduced themselves to the new crew of prisoners that escaped with Buggy from Impel Down. Alvida, somewhat impressed by Buggy's actions commented that the prisoners he brought with him were heinous prisoners with high bounties. After this, Buggy showed her Captain John's treasure mark. Buggy then told her that Luffy gave it to him, boasting that the wind does not blow east or west but blows directly to him. Alvida then informs Buggy about Luffy's current escapade in Marineford. Buggy seemed very confused after reading the paper, about Luffy's connection to Rayleigh, commenting that Rayleigh might be Luffy's uncle. At this point, Mr. 3 tells Buggy that he (Buggy) has received a letter from the World Government. Mr. 3 went on to read the letter and was completely surprised by what it said.
Next, at Sabaody Archipelago GR 44, the Coffee Monkeys request the Rosy Life Riders to hand over the Thousand Sunny to them, hoping to receive a lot of money from the Marines. They also say that if Duval's crew hand over the ship, they would split the profit with them since they are in the same business. In response, Duval kicks the Coffee Monkeys away, saying that he will not hand over the ship. Shakky, also present, states that they have to protect the ship. It is around this time that Bartholomew Kuma appears. Shakky tells them not to panic saying that Kuma has been around to see Rayleigh before and asks Kuma if he is on their side.
Next, at Alubarna in the Kingdom of Arabasta, Pell and Chaka had just finished chasing away some pirates from a port. Pell stated that they are tightening the kingdom's security since the activities of pirates have increased after Whitebeard's death. Cobra commented on how he wished every pirate were like Luffy. Pell went ahead to ask the king if he had taken a look at the newspaper and Igaram replied saying that Vivi was very happy to see that Luffy and the rest were safe. However, Cobra indicated that after a few seconds her happiness changed into perplexity and took the paper to her room. In Vivi's room, she was questioning what was on Luffy's arm; whether it were numbers, marks, or some new fashion. But she was unable to come up with an answer.
An island where Crocodile was staying is shown next. He was reading the newspaper and commenting that it has been three weeks since the war and barely escaping death, he was wondering what they (Luffy, Jinbe, and Rayleigh) were up to. Daz Bonez answered saying they were either up to something or just crazy. Crocodile then mentioned that he was healed and was heading back to the New World. He asked Daz if he would accompany him, and he agreed.
The news spread around the world and people were shown receiving it in Luffy's hometown, the dojo where Zoro used to train, Nami's village (with her sister and Genzo reading the paper), the Baratie restaurant, Drum Island (with Dr. Kureha and Dalton reading the paper), the Franky Family, Iceburg, and Paulie in Water 7, and the Dadan Family who went up to the front of Ace and Luffy's old treehouse, crying out to Ace that his brother whom he died saving is alive and he should rest in peace.
Next, Luffy is shown on the Kuja Pirates' ship apologizing to the girls about the long journey. They responded that they are used to long travels. They keep pulling on his skin while telling him that they have to make sure he is resting as per their captain's orders. Luffy worries, wondering if his crew would get the message. Rayleigh told him not to worry and that they would understand the message; although there was one amongst them who seemed dull, he (Rayleigh) was sure the guy would eventually understand the message.
The crew members are then shown. Chopper is sitting on the back of one of the birds from Torino Kingdom as he exclaimed to Luffy that he understands the message. Robin is in a horse-drawn carriage, acknowledging the hidden instruction as she understands Luffy's message. Sanji, in the Kamabakka Kingdom was shown next as he also indicates that he understood Luffy's message. After failing to leave the Boin Archipelago once again, Usopp is stuffing his face when a newspaper fell on the ground. Upon reading the paper, he also shows that he understood Luffy's message. In Weatheria, Nami is trying to run away when Haredas came up behind her stating that the balloon terminal was closed and they should return to his place for the time being. He pointed to the newspaper and Nami, upon reading it, understands the hidden message. She also comments on how selfish Luffy was for deciding on his own without thinking of how their feelings again. On Karakuri Island, Franky, survived the explosion, though he had been heavily damaged by the explosion caused from accidentally self-destructing Vegapunk's lab. He exclaims that he understood the message from Luffy. Next up is Brook, appearing to be in jail while muttering to himself how he needed to get out of the situation he is in. The newspaper he had requested is given to him by one of his captors and upon reading it, he understands the message as well. Lastly, Zoro is shown in Kuraigana Island with Perona scolding him. She then tells Zoro about the newspaper she had and how it has an update on Luffy. With difficulty in moving, Zoro demands to see the news and tries his best to decode the meaning of it while Perona holds the paper. He knows that Luffy going back to Marineford is not something his captain would do, deducting that it has to be Rayleigh's idea. He explains that there has to be a catch to it, but is still unable to immediately find the hidden message, which Rayleigh had alluded to earlier.

The episode begins with Trafalgar Law near Sabaody Archipelago.
Meanwhile X Drake is on a winter island somewhere in the New World. When he and his crew are attacked by some icicles, they start to run back. Suddenly, a massive iron dome opens up, revealing a hidden city and a huge cyborg shoots at them and states that he is a guardian, along with many others. Drake asks the robot whether attacking him would get Kaido's attention; the robot informs him that it would. So Drake transforms into his Ancient Zoan form and prepares to fight it.
At the same time on another island, Apoo fights off a giant wild boar. Just when he thinks the battle is over, a hoard of giant wild boars stampedes towards him. Apoo and his crew run towards the cliff and-much to their astonishment-rather than falling off, they find themselves running in the air with the wild boars still behind them.
On another island the Blackbeard Pirates had won against the Bonney Pirates and want to exchange Jewelry Bonney with the Marines because they don't have a ship. But then Van Augur sees that Admiral Akainu is commanding the Marines' ship and they run away rather than risking to get caught by him.
The episode ends with Chopper returning to the giant bird island to study the various plants and medicines.

The episode opens with Nami, as she is reading the newspaper containing Luffy's recent actions. Meanwhile, the old men catch up to Nami. She eventually confronts the old men. She then proceeds to trick the group, going on how one of the old men suggested that they strip her and beat her. Haredas remarks on how Nami has the group under her control. Nami then proceeds by telling the old men that she will jump off the island. She takes off her shoes and sets them down in front of her, apparently preparing to throw herself into the ocean. Nami gets up and rushes towards the cliffside of the island while "crying". The old men quickly try to stop her and apologize. Nami then stops before she reaches the island's edge and quickly forgives the old men, leaving them teetering on the cliff. She rushes back to Haredas in a full sprint, despite panting heavily and her bare feet smacking against the pavement. Suddenly full of determination, she remembers how Luffy helped her when she had been oppressed by Arlong and had tried to gouge out her old Arlong Pirates tattoo. She goes with Haredas to back to his house, who has been sitting watch by her shoes in bafflement of what she just did. Nami then begs Haredas to teach her everything about the Weather ball and weather navigation, remembering all that Luffy did for her. Haredas, after Nami explains her situation to him, agrees.
Meanwhile, Franky, on Karakuri Island, has suffered considerable damage to his cyborg body by accidentally pressing the self-destruct button in Dr. Vegapunk's lab. After being caught directly in the following explosion, most of his artificial skin has been scorched away, which has left a lot of his internal iron framework exposed and Franky unintentionally quite scary-looking. Though the main lab is gone, he discovers a second, hidden lab of Dr. Vegapunk, where he finds hidden blueprints of the scientist's weapons and Devil Fruit research. He tells Kitton, his grandfather, and Taroimo that he will be staying in the lab to study the blueprints and asks them to bring him some cola every now and then. However, the three are still freaked out by Franky's burnt appearance. Franky eventually gets annoyed by this and puts on a tiger rug. He then lights a fire in the lab's fireplace and remembers his dream. He vows that he will get stronger and will learn how to make the Thousand Sunny the ship of dreams. However, the tiger rug catches fire and Franky quickly runs out of the lab, scaring the marines searching for him, and creating the "Legend of the Sacred Burning Beast of Baldimore".
Meanwhile, Sanji is having dinner with Ivankov. Ivankov tries to ask Sanji what he saw in the newspaper, but Sanji shrugs him off. Sanji quickly notices the impact of the food on his body and asks Ivankov about it. Ivankov quickly tells Sanji about the Attack Cuisine. Sanji is amazed about the recipe, thinking about how he could make his friends stronger through their daily meals. Although, he quickly wonders about if it would make Robin and Nami sexier, either way, he asks Ivankov to teach him the recipe for this wondrous dish. However, Ivankov quickly rejects Sanji's request. After some talk, Ivankov makes Sanji a deal-if he beats the 99 masters of New Kama Kenpo, Sanji will have the right to learn the recipe of the Attack Cuisine. However, along the way, the Okamas will try to put Sanji in a dress and force him to be an okama again. Sanji, after some flashbacks, vows he will get stronger for Luffy and begins his training.

The episode starts off with an island called Kenzan Island, home of the Tehna Gehna Kingdom in the Grand Line. A group of people are gathered to see some kind of freak show which turns out to be just Brook. Brook is holding a newspaper while the crowd is booing because he will not move. He will not move because he is remembering what Luffy had done for him and what he can do for Luffy. He has a flashback of when he first met Luffy and remembers how Luffy wasn't scared of him and how Luffy wanted Brook to join the crew. Brook tells the crowd how happy he is, because for fifty years he had been alone in the dark waters and then he has a flashback of Gecko Moria stealing his shadow and Luffy defeating him. Brook finally moves and stands up and talks about how he will become stronger for Luffy and then he starts playing a guitar, to which the crowd responds saying that it makes their heart skip a beat. Brook then declares that it is his new single, "Bone to be Wild".
The scene changes to where Robin is, under the giant bridge in East Blue and the revolutionaries are asking her why she suddenly changed her mind and decided to come with them to Baltigo. Robin has a flashback of Ohara being destroyed while remembering Saul's final words and what she had to go through, then the flashback switches to Luffy trying to save her in Enies Lobby and then Sogeking burning the World Government flag. The scene then turns back to the revolutionaries trying to make Robin go inside since it's cold but she refuses saying she is a pirate and they are revolutionaries and she could not trust them so easily.
The location switches to Usopp in the Boin Islands. Usopp is running with Heracles saying that he needs to lose weight then get much stronger. Then Usopp has a flashback of when he became a part of Luffy's crew and when he was at Enies Lobby cheering Luffy to stand up so they could leave together and continue their adventure. The scene changes back to him asking himself if Luffy could become the Pirate King without his help, but he soon realizes what he is saying and he tells himself that he needs to get much stronger. Heracles is touched by his words and he starts to teach Usopp about Pop Greens. Then in his mind comes the fact that if Luffy is going to become Pirate King, then he needs to improve and become the King of Snipers.
The location switches to Kuraigana Island where Zoro is begging Mihawk to train him to become a great swordsman. Mihawk is disgusted by what Zoro is doing and says if he cannot even beat the humandrills outside then he has no reason to train him to which Zoro replied by saying that he defeated all of them. Mihawk was surprised by this and agreed to train him but only after his injuries were healed. Zoro and Perona go back to their room and she asks why he wants to train all of a sudden. Zoro then explains Luffy's tattoo to Perona.
The episode ends by the Straw Hats saying that they will all meet again at Sabaody Archipelago in two years.

This episode starts on the Kuja Pirates' ship. Jinbe is leaving and he and Luffy are saying their farewells. Shortly after Jinbe leaves, Hancock fantasizes about Luffy again.
The scene switches to a deserted island north west of the Amazon Lily called Rusukaina, which will be Luffy's training spot for the next two years. Rayleigh mentions it is a great spot for training because the island has forty-eight seasons in a year and the season changes weekly. Hancock tells Luffy that she will bring him food everyday from Amazon Lily. Rayleigh interrupts her and says that while Luffy is training, women are not allowed on the island. Hancock gets mad about this, but Rayleigh tells her that it is good for Luffy, so Hancock and the Kuja Pirates leave.
The scene changes to Rayleigh and Luffy taking a look around the island. Rayleigh is saying there was a country long ago on Rusukaina, but the people lost their will to survive. Luffy is surprised by the vast wilderness and Rayleigh tells him that there are about five hundred wild beasts that surpass Luffy's strength. Rayleigh mentions there is a power that concerns Luffy and that power is called Haki.
Then out of nowhere an elephant that is five times bigger than a normal elephant (as Luffy describes it) comes out of nowhere while Rayleigh is explaining what Haki is. Luffy panics and uses his Second Gear to try and defeat the elephant, but it does not affect the elephant as it was still standing and knocked Luffy aside. Luffy is about to try again but Rayleigh tells Luffy to watch him, explaining the first two basic types of Haki. Luffy remembers that a lot of his friends and enemies have used them before and it could work on his enemies if he learns it. Then Rayleigh explains there is one more Haki and Luffy, having a flashback, remembers that he used it before but Rayleigh warns Luffy that if this Haki is not used and managed properly it could hurt innocent people.
The scene switches to night with Luffy and Rayleigh having dinner and Rayleigh saying he will teach all of these Haki to Luffy the best he could in two years and Rayleigh adds that as a trainer he is not going to go easy on Luffy. Then Rayleigh says they will start training now but Luffy says he needs to do something first. Luffy goes to the only safe spot on the island and leaves his straw hat on a rock along with Rayleigh's Vivre Card and thinks about his crew and Ace and Sabo and about their promise and then starts his training with Rayleigh.
The episode ends with a scene of all of the crew and Luffy's pledge to become stronger.

Two years have passed and the episode opens with Luffy reclaiming his straw hat to renew his voyage. The beasts on the island have been tamed by Luffy. Luffy informs Boa Hancock that he is thankful for the food, but he does not want to marry her. On Sabaody Archipelago, Rayleigh and Shakuyaku discuss how time has passed and the pending arrival of the Straw Hat Pirates. Zoro interrupts them and learns that he is the first of the crew to arrive on the island. Meanwhile, Nami is sitting at a bar which happens to be hosting the Fake Straw Hat crew.
The scene shifts to Sabaody Park where Brook posters are all over the place. Brook performs his final concert of a world tour. Sanji arrives on the island, locks on to a woman with cross-haired vision, and happily runs from several doting okamas. The Fake Straw Hats ask Nami to join them. Nami refuses their offer saying she is waiting for someone. Fake Luffy gets angry and tries to scare her by saying he is the son of Dragon. Fake Nami approaches Nami and warns her that she has a bounty on her head. Usopp enters and uses his weapon on the Fake Straw Hats. Nami recognizes Usopp and heartily welcomes him. Usopp tells her about the new weapon Pop Green. He gets surprised over seeing Fake Sogeking and even more so for Fake Luffy. Nami uses her weapon from Weatheria to produce a thunder cloud. They casually exit the bar as lightning erupts and does unseen damage. Fake Luffy angrily staggers out of the bar's smoking door. He commands his crew to find and kill them.
Later, Robin is seen avoiding mysterious pursuers. She wonders out loud about Brook's concert and the Fake Straw Hats recruitment posters. Franky is seen near the Thousand Sunny; it is completely undamaged and he looks forward to setting sail soon. Tony Tony Chopper is seen walking and eating a Grand Bun as he comments that it tastes good. He is happier when he finds a cotton-candy vendor, though. Meanwhile, Fake Luffy encounters a couple resembling Nami and Usopp. He shoots the girl first and then decides to mercilessly shoot the guy she was with when he complains. Luffy strolls into the scene at this time. He is carrying an enormous backpack which bumps into Fake Luffy and causes him to fall over. Fake Luffy's anger is directed at Luffy. The episode ends abruptly with Luffy saying "Huh?"

The episode starts with Fake Luffy threatening Luffy and ordering him to apologize for not only not seeing him but also colliding with him in the street. Luffy remembers the moment when he landed on the Sabaody Archipelago along with the Kuja Pirates. Hancock tells him that they have to bid goodbye here because she can not let anyone know about their relationship yet and gives him a mustache (disguise) to put on so that no one recognizes him at all. Luffy says he does not need it but takes it anyway. She informs Luffy that she has packed his backpack with all that he needs for at least three to five years. Luffy bids goodbye to the Kuja Pirates, they promise him that they will always be there to help him. Elder Nyon informs Luffy that the Marines are strongly guarding Sabaody nowadays. Remembering this, Luffy decides not to cause any trouble in the streets.
Meanwhile, at Shakky's Rip-off Bar, Sanji comes to know from Shakky that except for Luffy and Nico Robin, all of the Straw Hat crew has already arrived at Sabaody before him. Rayleigh informs him that the Thousand Sunny has been totally fixed and coated. Duval starts narrating the story of how he and his men had protected the Sunny from the time the Straw Hats were not there. Sanji pays no attention to him when he hears Shakky talking about Nami. Sanji learns that all of the crew have trained a lot and so they must have become stronger in these two years.
Elsewhere, Chopper is enjoying a cotton candy and watches some new pirate thugs fighting amongst themselves on the streets of Sabaody. A pirate captain there announces that he is gonna beat all the renowned pirates in the New World. Then, some of the Impostor Straw Hats Pirates appear in the street consisting of Fake Sanji, Fake Zoro, Fake Robin, and Fake Chopper. Everyone is afraid once they see them but Chopper takes them as the real Straw Hats and starts following them. Robin is seen walking in the street just after them. Sanji sets off in a hurry towards the Sunny and is seen from a distance by Robin.
The scene returns to Fake Luffy threatening Luffy and saying that he made him look like a fool. Even the public encourages Luffy to apologize so that his life may be spared. In spite of everyone telling him to apologize, Luffy ignores them and heads forward and collides with Fake Luffy again. This time Fake Luffy shoots Luffy without wasting any time but Luffy dodges the bullet using his Kenbunshoku Haki and then releases his Haoshoku Haki on them. While they are unconscious on the ground and Luffy walks away, the people are unable to grasp what happened and are totally confused by the sight.
Again, the Fake Straw Hats realize that the talking raccoon that was following them is the real Chopper who was worth only 50. They agree to replace the Fake Chopper with him so that they may look more like the real crew. Fake Robin agrees to take him in but the Fake Chopper retaliates and bites her head. Seeing this opportunity, two men who were following the real Robin capture the Fake Robin and Fake Chopper thinking they are the real ones. Chopper decides to rescue Robin thereafter.
After having checked the Sunny's kitchen, Sanji visits the market and learns about a very popular shop in Grove 42. Going there, he finds the shopkeeper worrying about a green-haired man with three swords and a scar on his eye. He confirms it to be Zoro and learns that he has unintentionally headed toward Fish-Man Island on another pirate ship. Suddenly, a huge galleon ship emerges out of the water, cut in half, which surprises everyone as how someone could cut a galleon that huge with just a sword. They find Zoro aboard the ship and realize it is his doing. The episode ends with Zoro realizing he got on the wrong ship.

Robin arrives at Grove 17 to find a fully coated Sunny as well as Franky who shows off his body modifications and informs her about the whereabouts of the other Straw Hat Pirates. Robin questions Franky about the flyer of Brook's concert to which he replies that Brook became a star and might have given up on piracy. Brook is briefly shown still performing Bone To Be Wild at Sabao Dome. Meanwhile, Fake Zoro, Fake Sanji and the real Chopper arrive at Grove 47 and find the other members of the Fake Straw Hat Crew recovering from the blast of Haki they received from Luffy.
Chopper is overjoyed to see his "comrades" again, getting slightly ecstatic about Sogeking. 
The Fake Straw Hats ignore him and Fake Luffy wonders about what kind of trick it was that knocked them unconscious. Fake Zoro, in turn, informs him about Cocoa getting abducted. Fake Luffy is shocked at first then he tells the others to let her be, stating that it's her fate for looking just like the real Robin. Chopper is outraged from the words of indifference towards "Robin", but Fake Luffy does not pay him any mind and merely asks Fake Zoro and Fake Sanji what the deal is with the "stuffed animal". He orders them to assemble the pirates they recruited earlier at Grove 46 in order to find the man with the long nose (Usopp), the woman with the long hair (Nami) and the kid with the hood and the large backpack (Luffy) and take revenge on them.
Once again, Chopper is indignant about how everyone finds this to be more important than saving "Robin". Crying out how disappointed he is in everyone, he runs off to save her by himself. The argument was observed by two Marines of which, one recognizes Chopper and states that despite the radical change in appearance, only the Straw Hat Pirates have such a weird pet. Thus, they inform the Marine Base about the Straw Hats being alive. The Marines prepare to arrest the pirates gathering at Grove 46. Sentomaru appears, accompanied by two Pacifista units, and declares that he will go after the Straw Hats. Upon being asked whether it is really necessary to deploy two Pacifistas, he declares that the Straw Hat Pirates mustn't be underestimated and that he knew, from Kuma, that they would reunite. In the meantime, Sanji and Zoro are on their way back to the Thousand Sunny while arguing as usual and Nami and Usopp are out for shopping. 
The latter finally meet a rather distressed Chopper, who has been wondering why his friends had become so cold-hearted and what he had trained for in the past two years. Chopper is happy to see Usopp and somewhat confused about Nami who looks different from the Nami he saw earlier. He then remembers about Robin and tells his friends to hurry and save her, but Usopp and Nami inform him about the people he met earlier being imposters, much to his surprise. Upset at first, he says that being impersonated by someone is like being famous to which Nami adds that they are famous in a bad way. Meanwhile the Fake Straw Hat Pirates realize who Chopper is and Fake Zoro and Fake Sanji are ordered to find him. They happen to meet the real Luffy who, just like Chopper, mistakes them for the originals, who are seen arguing again elsewhere. Finally, the pirates recruited by the Fake Straw Hat Pirates meet at Grove 46. They are tailed by the Marines and several new villains are introduced. One of them, "Wet-Haired" Caribou, looks suspiciously in the direction of the hidden Marine and the episode ends.

Brook finishes his concert and thanking his fans. Later, he goes backstage and is given a bottle of water and pours the water on himself. Later on, his fans call for an encore which he accepts. The Marines then come and want to arrest him because he is a member of the Straw Hats. Brook starts to sing his last song, proclaiming that Luffy is still alive. The Marines open fire, but Brook already escaped on a flying fish. Chopper, Usopp, Robin, and Nami later reunite at the Thousand Sunny. Chopper and Usopp meet Franky again and seem to be amazed over the new equipment of his body. Franky then reveals that his voice can sound robotic and he can do several changes to his body parts. His hands have become fairly larger, but he also reveals a new arm.

The episode starts in Grove #17 where the Thousand Sunny and the Straw Hat crew (excluding Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji) is. Rayleigh gives Nami information about the weather in the New World. They are all excited to see how Luffy has evolved in 2 years of training. The crew is afraid that Luffy might have caught up in some trouble. They want to inform Luffy, Zoro and Sanji that they must go to Grove #42 and set sail for the New World. Chopper has something on his mind in case they are caught in trouble.
Meanwhile, Brook gets away with the Rosy Life Riders, from the Sabaody Dome. The Marines are fighting the fans of Brook because the fans do not want them to hurt Brook. Zoro and Sanji are fighting in front of people who are astonished by both Zoro's and Sanji's powers. Suddenly, Franky calls from the Den Den Mushi to tell them that the Marines are on the way to find Luffy, Afterwards they hear an uproar coming from Grove #46
In Grove #46 where the pirates have gathered, Fake Luffy is about to show his new subordinates what he intends to do to Luffy but is interrupted when the Marines arrives to arrest them all. Fake Luffy orders Caribou to use the Marine soldier he captured earlier as a shield in order to create a path, but Caribou does not listen to him and instead kills the Marine scout. In an instant, a fight breaks out between the pirates and the Marines. A Marine attempts to attack Caribou with a sword without success, meanwhile, discovering his possession of a Logia Devil Fruit which he uses to smother the Marine before shooting him.
Just when it seems like the battle will end in the Impostor Straw Hats favor (with the fake Luffy announcing that the one who kills the most Marines will become his right-hand man), 2 Pacifistas arrive along with Sentomaru. PX-5 identifies Luffy from a long distance. Lip Doughty fails in an attempt to attack PX-7 and is defeated and captured by the Marines. Terrified, the Fake Straw Hats run away, only for fake Luffy to collide right into Sentomaru. When all the pirates see him, they think he is going to fight and show them his power. Sentomaru is confused as to why the pirates are calling him "Big Boss" and "Straw Hat". Then fake Luffy starts bragging about "being" Luffy, proclaiming that he is the son of Dragon, the grandson of Garp, that he was in the War of the Best, and about having a 400,000,000 bounty on his head only to get cut off by Sentomaru who smashes him over the head with his iron axe whilst yelling that Luffy is not a piece of trash like him. Sentomaru asks PX-5 to identify who he really is, revealing him to be Demaro Black, a low-ranking pirate with a bounty of 26,000,000. Everyone is shocked to learn that he's an impostor while the rest of the Fake Straw Hats run off. Upon hearing about his doppelganger, Luffy decides to get out before getting caught.
PX-5 locates Luffy and is given an order by Sentomaru to attack him. Luffy avoids the Pacifista's attack, with his disguise falling off in the process. Everyone takes a good look at him and they all realize he is the actual Luffy, which shocks the Fake Straw Hats when they realize who they were threatening. Sentomaru says that he has become a Marine officer and arrived to arrest Luffy. PX-5 attempts to attack Luffy again, but Luffy avoids all of its attacks. Then, by using Haki and Gear Second, he completely destroys PX-5 prior to running away.
While running away he comes across the actual Zoro and Sanji. Sentomaru orders PX-7 to attack them, only for them to simultaneously defeat him, shocking the recruits of the fake Straw Hats, making them realize they are indeed the real deal. Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji all start running together towards the Thousand Sunny. Luffy stops for a moment because he senses Rayleigh. Luffy thanks him for everything he has done for him in the past 2 years and yells that he is definitely going to become the Pirate King making Rayleigh look at him and smile.

This episode opens and the Kuja Pirates from Amazon Lily come to see how Luffy is. Zoro, Sanji, and Luffy thank Rayleigh. Rayleigh remembers his training with Luffy and tears up. The Marines are going after Zoro, Luffy, and Sanji, but Rayleigh slashes the ground creating a line telling the Marines not to cross it. Sanji stops to take his bags of food with him, Zoro sees that the Marines went around so as to catch them. Perona appears after two years with her Negative Hollow ability and used it against the marines. Sanji asks if she is a real woman, her negative ghosts defeated Sanji and at the same time Chopper arrives on a big bird to take them to Grove 42.
The Rosy Life Riders fly by and Brook lands on the ship. Brook asks Nami if he can see her panties and Nami kicks him in the face saying she never did allow him to see it even 2 years back. Luffy, Zoro, Sanji and Chopper arrive at the ship. The Straw Hat Pirates are together again. When Sanji looks at Nami and Robin his nose started gushing blood and he fell into the sea. Usopp rescues Sanji and Luffy is admiring Franky's new body. The Marines come and they are shooting at the Straw Hat Pirates and then the Kuja Pirates came and intercepted the Marines. The crew is impressed when they see Boa Hancock. Sanji turns to stone and then becomes upset at Luffy because he went to Amazon Lily and befriended Hancock. Sweet Pea and Marguerite are looking at them.
Usopp wonders why the Marines are not coming from island anymore. The Straw Hats' friends come to save them. Franky dives under the Thousand Sunny to remove air sack and releases the air inflating the coating. All of their friends wish them a great adventure in the New World. Luffy greets his crew, thank them for abiding to his selfish need and gave the command to sail. The ship begins to sink thus ending the episode.

The episode opens when the Caribou Pirates find the fake Straw Hats. Caribou attacks Drip (fake Sanji) and fake Sogeking subsequently tries to save him, but to no avail as Caribou has Logia-type Devil Fruit powers. Coribou, Caribou's brother, is digging graves with the rest of the Caribou Pirates.
In another scene, Rayleigh remembers when he first met Gol D. Roger, a thought which causes him to shed tears; saying that the Straw Hat indeed looks even better on Luffy.
Meanwhile, Sentomaru is seen reporting through a Den Den Mushi. He is seen saying that some of the Fake Straw Hat Pirates and the Caribou pirates managed to get away because Rayleigh was blocking their way. He adds that two Pacifistas were severely damaged by the real Straw Hats mentioning that one of the Pacifistas fought against the Straw Hats two years ago. He is seen saying that the power of the Pacifista did not change so he assumes that the Straw hats are back stronger than two years before.
Next, the Straw Hat Pirates are seen sailing under the sea. At one point, Luffy and Zoro saw fish and were amazed by them. Both plan to eat the fish, but Chopper and Usopp beat them up before they could break the coating bubble. While Chopper and Usopp were yelling at Luffy and Zoro for their bad behavior, Sanji asks Nami how Rayleigh's ship coating works. Nami happily tells him, saying that Rayleigh had given her notes. She turns around and reveals her boobs to Sanji, causing him to suffer a massive nosebleed and fly out of the ship's coating. Robin comments how the coating hasn't broken despite being pierced at such deep pressure. Luffy stretches his arm to grab Sanji back into the ship, combatting the effects of the water on since since he is a devil fruit user. Usopp comments on how Sanji was more more perverted while Brook comments that Sanji might have died, seeing the mermaids on Fish-Man Island as he dreamt to see. Nami later continues her explanation of the coating. The coating is able to handle one pierce but unable to handle multiple. Luffy and Zoro later resume to catching fish, the latter challenging to former on who could catch the most fish. Chopper and Usopp beat up the two again with Usopp scolding the two of not listening to what Nami said. Franky later tells his crew that upon his arrival he saw Bartholomew Kuma protecting the Thousand Sunny. He explains the reason why Hatchan was not there when they departed from the Sabaody to guide them to Fish-Man Island them saying that he was wounded while fighting against the marines so as to protect Thousand Sunny and that the Shichibukai had been protecting the ship for the past two years. 
Meanwhile the Caribou Pirates' plan to kill the real Straw Hat Pirates is revealed as they are traveling through the water as well. Usopp spots their ship just as the Caribou Pirates' attack on the Thousand Sunny is launched.

The episode opens with the Caribou pirates attack Straw Hats. As the bubbles of the two ships come close Caribou orders his crew to rush on Thousand Sunny. Caribou manages to get on Thousand Sunny, but the rest of his crew is pulled away by Momoo who runs away when he recognizes Nami, Sanji, and Luffy. When Caribou realizes that he is alone against the Straw Hats he begs them not to throw him into the sea, and finds excuses so as to let him live. Later on Nami is explaining to the rest of the crew about the undersea currents only to be interrupted when Thousand Sunny is drifted by a downward current. While drifted by the current Straw Hats come across the Kraken a mythical huge Sea Monster which is now blocking their way.
Luffy gets excited and decides to tame it. In the meantime the rest of the Caribou pirates are returning so as to save their captain but their ship is destroyed immediately by the Kraken. Luffy along with Zoro and Sanji coat themselves so as to fight against the Kraken. The Kraken attempts to attack Thousand Sunny but the Straw Hats manage to avoid the attacks thanks to Franky (uses his new Rocket Launchers), Chopper who uses his Guard point and Robin who demonstrates her new power by creating a gigantic hand that protects the ship from a boulder. The episode ends showing Luffy ready to activate his Gear Third technique.

The episode opens with the Monster Trio (Luffy, Zoro and Sanji) facing the Kraken. The trio each reveal some result of their intensive training these past two years. Sanji showing his Blue Walk and a new kick, Diable Jambe: Bien Cuit. Zoro cuts the kraken with his new Three Sword Style technique, Ogi: Rokudo no Tsuji, before Luffy finishes him off with a haki-imbued Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gun. After the Kraken is defeated, from somewhere inside the Kraken, a big shark wearing a t-shirt appears and thanks them before going to the deep sea. Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji get sucked into the deep sea current.
The rest of the Straw Hat Pirates look for them on their way to Fish-Man Island, but cannot find them. Meanwhile, Caribou sneaked into a barrel and is scheming to kill the other Straw Hats, but Franky hears Caribou talking and traps him. A while later, they reach some undersea volcanoes and lots of huge sea creatures around them, which makes the crew nervous. Franky has to use Coup de Burst, albeit with less power than usual, four times to escape from them but has to stop, due to the fact that the bubble shrinks whenever Coup de Burst is used. After barely escaping from the jaws of a giant anglerfish, they see Wadatsumi, who knocks out the anglerfish. The episode ends with the Flying Dutchman appearing.

The Straw Hats encounter the mysterious fish-men riding one of the sea-beasts. One of the fish-men, Hammond, insults Surume for carrying the crew or "those sinful humans". Surume gets scared and leaves the Thousand Sunny and its crew behind. After Surume left, Hammond addresses the crew and their achievements (namely beating Arlong, defending Hachi, and punching a World Noble). He then offers the crew a choice: either join the New Fish-Man Pirates or die. Luffy immediately responds by saying no and making a face at Hammond. During all of this, Nami tells Franky to use a full power Coup de Burst. By using the acceleration of the burst, they will rocket towards Fish-Man Island and escape their enemies.
Everyone immediately prepares the ship and afterwards, Franky launches the Coup de Burst, sending the Sunny straight towards Fish-Man Island. The crew makes it through two bubbles, unfortunately, the second bubbles contains water. The strong currents from the second bubble separate the Straw Hats and the Sunny. Much later, Luffy wakes up in the company of Sanji, Usopp, Chopper, and a group of small mermaids. The gang rejoices that Luffy woke up and they talk until they meet Camie. Luffy and the others (but mostly Sanji) are excited to meet Camie after two long years.
Camie explains how she was going to meet them, but she thought it was a month later until then. Either way, Camie is happy to see everyone and gives everyone some soup. Camie then freaks out, realizing that she was trying to warm everyone up with cold soup, she and Usopp engage in an odd shocked face fault, while everyone else eats the soup. After some talking, the Medaka Mermaid Quintuplets come by and give the group their clothes back, all dried. Camie introduces the quintuplets and tells the group that they are in the girls dorms of the Mermaid Cove, which gets Sanji all riled up. Eventually, the group leaves Camie's apartment and heads for a higher level of the island on a sea turtle.
Luffy asks Camie about Hatchan and Pappag, to which she explains that Hatchan is recovering in the Fish-Man District and that Pappag is a famous designer living in a high-class mansion. Camie then shows off the bubble roads to the group as they make their way into an air-filled area of the island. After reaching their destination, Usopp and Chopper marvel over the fact that there's air and clouds in where they are. A voice calls out to Camie, the voice belongs to Ishilly, who is relaxing with other mermaids. The group is shocked at the sight of real mermaids, Usopp even remarks how this is something out of a fairy tale. Sanji then immediately starts crying and excitedly proclaims that he has found his All Blue, though Usopp remarks "is that what you really want Sanji?". Camie then introduces the Straw Hats to the group of mermaids.
One of them comes up to Sanji and grabs his arm, asking why he is crying. She then asks him to dance with her under water. Sanji then remarks on how this might be too good to be true and that he might die on Fish-Man Island on that very day, but Usopp remarks on how negative Sanji is being. Elsewhere, Hammond and some of the other New Fish-Man Pirates report to their leader about the Straw Hat Pirates entering Fish-Man island. Their boss then tells them to bring the Straw Hats to him immediately.

The episode begins with an infatuated Sanji playing in a pool with the mermaids in Mermaid Cove. The chef states his wish to live there, with a mermaid remarking how much fun he is. Luffy, soaking his feet on the side of the pool, comments on how nice it must be to swim. Camie suggests that Luffy could wear a bubble in order to do so, much to his surprise. Usopp asks if Sanji is just acting the way he is out of nature. Chopper states that he is glad Sanji is back to normal, going on to say that his blood stock is out of Sanji's blood type, S RH-, an exceedingly rare blood type. Luffy tells Camie there is someone on the island he wants to meet. Camie asks if it is the Mermaid Princess, Luffy says it is not, and that he wants to see Jinbe, explaining how Jinbe helped him cope with the loss of his brother, Ace. Usopp asks if Luffy is referring to the ex-Shichibukai, to which Luffy replies with a yes, calling him his friend, much to Usopp's disbelief. Luffy then remembers Jinbe saying that he would wait for Luffy at Fish-Man Island and tells Camie about it. Camie remembers reading an article where Luffy and Jinbe were seen together.
When Luffy asks where he is, Camie replies that he is not on the island, going on to explain that after Jinbe abdicated his Shichibukai status, he could no longer stay on Fish-Man Island, so he and the Fish-Man Pirates had to leave. Luffy then asks if that meant that he will not be able to see him, and Camie explains that the details of his departure are complicated, and that after the war, a lot of things have changed on Fish-Man Island.
They are interrupted by the Medaka Mermaid Quintuplets, who come to tell them that a ship is coming. Nika, one of the quintuplets, tells Camie that it is a rare kingdom ship. Camie realizes that the ship might be coming to arrest Luffy, and tells the crew that they must hide. Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper all hide behind rocks, while Sanji, still in the water, is shielded from view by Ishilly, who is trying to tell him to hold still while hugging his head to her chest, which the chef appeared to enjoy immensely. The ship, identified by Camie as a royal gondola, essentially a large oarfish with some sort of carriage with oars sticking out built into it, approaches them. A nearby mermaid does not believe that there could actually be royalty aboard it, wondering why would they come from Ryugu Palace to this little corner of the island. Trumpets are then heard, heralding the arrival of the princes of Ryugu Kingdom, the Neptune brothers. One of them greets the mermaids, saying he has a question for them. Three mermaids shriek with joy at the sight of the princes, asking them why they are there while Luffy, hidden behind a nearby rock, quietly looks on.
He then wonders why there would be princes at Mermaid Cove, as do Usopp and Chopper. The Neptune princes, Fukaboshi, Ryuboshi, and Manboshi, then come forth. Fukaboshi explains that they received a report of illegal entry, asking if anyone had come by there. The mermaids reply that no one has come by. One asks if the people they are looking for really are important enough for the three princes to look for them in person. Fukaboshi then states that they have not confirmed if the illegal entrants are the people they are looking for.
From a distance, Hammond is watching these events take place. He is with a Fish-Man and a sea monster. Hammond wonders why they are at the cove, saying it could be problematic. Fukaboshi then thanks the mermaids for their time, saying that he will continue searching elsewhere and that the border patrol must have made a mistake. He then apologizes to the mermaids for taking up their time, to which they reply that it was not any trouble at all. His brothers apologize as well. At this point, Sanji loses all self-control. The ability to contain himself became too much while his head was clutched against Ishilly's chest, and he erupts in his most massive nosebleed ever. The blood spurted extremely high, taking the shape of a mermaid doing a sexy pose. Chopper yells out in shock as he runs toward him. The mermaid holding him screams not knowing what just happened. The bottom half of Sanji's face is completely covered in blood and there is a lot more of it in the water. Luffy remarks that Sanji just lost a dangerous amount of blood. Usopp realizes that Sanji could not handle the excitement after all, and keeping it suppressed caused him to explode like this. Fukaboshi, checking some of the crew's wanted posters, realizes that the person he is seeing now must be Monkey D. Luffy. He then orders his Ammo Knights to advance. Hammond realizes that the Straw Hat Pirates are there now too. Hammond says that it would be bad if they got into a fight with the Neptune Army and decides not to do anything for now.
Chopper runs to Sanji's side, telling the guards to wait a moment while apologizing for entering illegally and asking the guards to postpone their arrest. He then asks for someone to donate blood, saying that if Sanji will not be treated, he would die in about an hour. Chopper said Sanji's blood type is S RH-, an extremely rare blood type. He asks if anyone could donate some and asks if fish-man or merman blood could be transfused into a human's body. The guards stop in surprise. Luffy then begs for someone to give Sanji some blood. As some mermaids look on in fear, Chopper asks again if anyone has the necessary blood type. Usopp finishes the plea by saying that they cannot let Sanji die in such a stupid way. Camie tells Chopper that humans, mermen, and Fish-Men all share the same blood and that it is transfusable. She is about to explain more but is interrupted by Hammond's laughter. He tells the Straw Hat Pirates that they must be out of their minds and that there is not a single creature on the island who would give blood to humans and if someone did they would get a "judgment in the dark" from someone who hates humans. Luffy then recognizes Hammond from their earlier encounter as Camie suddenly dives under the water.
One of the guards tells Fukaboshi that the person talking is Hammond from the Fish-Man District. Hammond tells Sanji to stay bleeding as he is and to die helplessly. He then tells about the rule put in place long ago, forbidding fish-men and humans from sharing blood. Usopp and Luffy look at him in disbelief. Hammond goes on to explain that the rule, ironic to the situation, was put in place by humans, fearing the fish-men as monsters, to prevent the mixing of bloodlines.
Hammond then ordered them to abandon the life of one crew member and come with them to the Fish-Man District, as their boss, Hody Jones, wished to see them. Usopp then shouted that he did not know the detail of that law, and that if someone with S RH- blood came forth to help, he would thank them in any way possible. Hammond, ignoring Usopp, remarks that they will just have to take the Straw Hat Pirates by force. He shoots a Trawl Net from a gun at them. Luffy sweeps the flying net out of the way, saying he would not listen to Hammond and that he had told him this earlier. He then proceeds to knock out Hammond and his accomplices with one Gomu Gomu no Jet Pistol each. Fukaboshi and some mermaids look on in shock. Hammond and the two other pirates have been knocked out cold. Usopp then yells that there's a sea monster behind Luffy. Luffy dispatches the monster by using Haoushoku Haki, intimidating it enough so that it would not fight, but not enough to faint. Chopper and Usopp were shocked at how the monster realized its own defeat without actually fighting. Fukaboshi does not seem phased by this, though says that it was impressive. Camie then reappears, having hijacked the royal gondola. She tells them that they should go into town, as she saw a lot of humans at the port. Camie then apologizes to the guards, promising to return the giant oarfish to them once they are done with it. Once everyone is on board, they set off, leaving everyone else, including the princes, at Mermaid Cove. On the gondola, Camie apologizes, saying she would be willing to help if she were the right blood type for Sanji, but she is not. Usopp tells her that she has nothing to be sorry for, as it all goes back to Sanji having impure thoughts, pointing out the smirk on the chef's face as evidence. Chopper tells Sanji not to think of anything, as every second is precious.
Back at Mermaid Cove, Fukaboshi is talking to the Mermaids, saying them covering for the pirates created a huge mistake, asking them why they did it. The mermaids apologize, saying that the pirates were not bad people and friends of Camie's and that they did not want the crew to get arrested for illegal entry. One mermaid says she hopes Sanji will be alright. Fukaboshi told the mermaids that they were jumping to conclusions. Since the Straw Hat Pirates are already infamous pirates, it did not matter if they entered illegally since the army more or less knew who they were dealing with. Ryuboshi adds that they were looking for them for a different reason and also states that they had just lost their chance to give the Straw Hats a message from Jinbe.

The episode starts with Luffy and the others looking for a blood donor. Unfortunately, none of the fish-men they passed volunteered. After splitting up, Chopper spots humans going into a bar and calls the others.
Meanwhile, Ishilly and a couple of friends discovered the barrel Franky trapped Caribou in, which floated in with Luffy and the others. Thinking there might be treasure or alcohol in it, they prepare to open it.
Back at Luffy's group, Sanji wakes up after having received donated blood. He asks where he is and Camie tells him he is at her friend's house. Chopper collapses face first on the bed, saying how happy he is to have found donor blood. Sanji, confused by Chopper's talk about blood, sits up while asking what happened. Camie quickly tells him to lie back down. Luffy, sprawled out in a chair, asks why no Fish-Man would help them, saying they had been all over the island, going on to say he thought Sanji was a goner. Sanji, touched by his friends' selflessness, thanks them. He then tries to remember what happened to put him in such a state, but has difficulty with it. Luffy and Usopp implore him to stop remembering, as he will lose blood again and there would be nothing they could do to help him again.
Usopp points to a curtain where only a hand is visible, saying they found the donor at a pub. From behind the curtain, Sanji hears a feminine voice. He then asks if they took the blood from a fragile young lady. Usopp pulls back the curtain to reveal two okama, the pirate twins Splash and Splatter. One of them even offers him more blood if it is necessary. Sanji screams and foams at the mouth in shock. While Usopp is telling Sanji to thank them, Chopper realizes that Luffy had been poisoned, noticing the entry point on his arm. Chopper is amazed at how Luffy did not react at all to such a deadly poison and that he already had antibodies to counter it. Luffy remembers Magellan's poison almost killing him in Impel Down and gives that as the reason for his immunity. Luffy remembers the merman with the sword and the octopus legs, and attributes the poison to him, saying he seems strong.
The scene then changes to Hyouzou, the merman in question. As he carries the unconscious bodies of Hammond and Kasagon back to the Fish-Man District, he hears a scream coming from the cove. He just thinks it is noisy Mermaids having fun. He then starts berating himself for accidentally poisoning Luffy, as he'd be in trouble if he dies. In the cove, a mermaid says that the scream came from Ishilly's group. Another Mermaid said she had heard it from where she was, and that Ishilly had mentioned something about opening the barrel they found. The barrel is now broken open and a muddy substance slithers away from the scene.
The scene changes to the back of the Mermaid Cafe. Camie is talking to her boss, Madame Shyarly, who was asking about Sanji's well being. Camie thanks her for letting them borrow a room, and then asks Madame Shyarly not to go in to see Sanji as she is beautiful, therefore dangerous to Sanji. She also asks her to keep it a secret from Sanji that he is in the back of the Mermaid Cafe. Camie tells her that Chopper told her they would be in big trouble if Sanji found out where he was. Madame Shyarly comments on the irregularity of Chopper and Camie's requests. Luffy and Usopp find Shyarly's crystal ball, which she tells them not to touch. Camie explains to them that Shyarly is a fortune teller, and was rather well known. Shyarly however, said that she was retired, as the future was better left unknown. Luffy then asks her "So, do mermaids poop?", and Usopp asks why he used "so" in his question. This angered Shyarly who called Luffy a vulgar child. Camie quickly told him to apologize, which he did. Shyarly then tells Camie to take the rest of the day off and show her friends the island. She said not to worry about the influx of human pirate customers, as she had enough hired help to start handling the crowd. The "star" part of the word "start" made Camie remember Pappag, and how she had to deliver a clam to him. Shyarly tells her that Pappag is in the cafe, making a ruckus about some old friend of his.
After leaving the room, Camie tells the Straw Hats about some of Madame Shyarly's famous predictions, such as predicting the Great Age of Pirates one year ahead of time. She also accurately predicted the war at Marineford and Whitebeard's death. Because of her accuracy at predicting disasters, she has come to hate her ability to see the future. She takes them to the main street of Coral Hill and the front entrance of the Mermaid Cafe. When Luffy stated how hungry he was, Camie said they have cakes, sea fruits, and shellfish, but no meat in the sense Luffy was thinking. Usopp tries to distract Luffy from his bitterness about the lack of meat by reminding him Pappag is inside.
That friend that Pappag was talking about turned out to be Brook. Pappag was glad to see Luffy and Usopp. Brook has a mermaid on either side of him. One of them kisses him on the cheek, telling him to come back soon, saying the whole time he was there was like a dream come true. After telling them he will be back, brook launches into a slew of his bone jokes, bodily jokes, and already dead jokes. Usopp was surprised by Brook's excitement. Pappag interrupts, saying he was about to show Brook his estate. Pappag entices Luffy with sea monster meat, saying it is a staple of his diet and he always has a lot in his house. Camie gives him the Orient clam, which delights the starfish. Usopp was confused since it was a shellfish. Camie explained that fish-men can eat meat and fish while mermaids cannot. Luffy is relieved to hear there is meat on the island after all. As they call a taxi, Brook notices a wanted poster of Vander Decken. Pappag was surprised that the crew had met him, telling them he is like a bandit of the sea floor and the whole country has been searching for him for years. He then tells them to get on the taxi.
Pappag explained that it started with Vander Decken sending a letter once a week to the Mermaid Princess. The letters eventually became packages which eventually became threatening marriage proposals. The princess became too scared to ignore him any longer. Camie chimes in, adding that her father, King Neptune, became angry and had his three sons form an army. They have been searching for him without any success. Pappag tries to interrupt her, saying he had just been explaining that. Camie summarizes it by saying that the Mermaid Princess is the younger sister to the three princes, and King Neptune is the father of all four of them. Brook then says he wants to hear about how Vander Decken, a pirate who was cursed hundreds of years ago, plays into it. Pappag explained that legends tend to get exaggerated, but that the "mad captain" known as Vander Decken really did exist. The legend had it that he came to Fish-Man Island and died. The ship they saw was the real Flying Dutchman, but the captain was his grandson (Camie interrupts here again to finish the story, leaving Pappag in despair), Vander Decken IX. Brook makes another joke about how seeing Vander Decken nearly scared the life right out of him.
Luffy then redirects the conversation by pointing out how a mermaid has split fins similar to Kokoro's. He asks Camie if that is how her fins will look like when she reaches age 30, to which she replies with a yes. Luffy then sees a fish-man dad with an older fish-man child and a merman baby. Luffy remarks how fun the variety in sizes and colors of each species is. Pappag explains that when a Fish-Man and Mermaid marry, they could either have a baby that is Merman/maid or Fish-Man/woman, so there are four types of patterns. As they are about to get on a highway, Luffy asks about something in the distance. Pappag replies that it is the Candy Factory. Luffy asks why there is a pirate flag on it. Pappag tells him that there's a similar one at the entrance to the port, as the island is now under the protection of Charlotte Linlin, also known as Big Mom, the Four Emperors. Pappag explains that after the war, Big Mom started protecting the island since Whitebeard had died. In return for her protection, she demands a large amount of candy every month. Camie explains that the island is so dangerous that they need something big protecting it, otherwise, the government could not function. Luffy thinks Big Mom must be nice if she decided to protect Fish-Man Island. Pappag said that Whitebeard did not require collateral, and that Big Mom might be looking at it from a business perspective.
Luffy says that she's one of the Four Emperors, like Shanks, and wonders if he will ever meet her some day. Their taxi then arrives in Gyoverly Hills, where everyone is amazed by the size of Pappag's house. Back in Coral Hill, Madame Shyarly is making a scene outside, saying something is going to be catastrophic. Everyone is asking her what is wrong. She tells them to go and find the pirate wearing a straw hat and send him out of the country at once. A man asks what is going on and if she saw something in her crystal ball. Shyarly explains that she did not mean to see it, but she felt something from Luffy which prompted her to look into the future. Hiding her head in her hands, she says that she hopes she is wrong. The fortune foretold that Fish-Man Island would be destroyed by Luffy's hand.

In the open sea, Gyro remembers the time when he was attacked by the New Fish-Man Pirates and vowing never to return to the Fish-Man Island. On the Noah, Hody Jones turns down the offer from his subordinate Ikaros Much to defeat them and says that he will do it himself. Meanwhile, on Fish-Man Island, Nami reunites with Luffy and the others. Neptune, the island's king, appears with his whale and Megalo before them. When Neptune offers the pirates to go to the Ryugu Palace for a banquet, they accept and depart for the palace.
Meanwhile, Hody uses Energy Steroids to destroy Gyro's ship with chains on his hands, using only his mouth. Zeo, another one of Hody's subordinates, reveals that fish-men are born with 10 times the strength as humans and an Energy Steroid increases their powers double that for each pill they take. After Hody reveals that both Fisher Tiger and Arlong's wills were destroyed by humans, he has his crew go up to Fish-Man Island and vows that he will kill Neptune and make the fish-men a superior race.

The episode starts out with a flashback, showing how Ishilly and her friends were captured by Caribou. The flashback ends with Caribou saying how he should thank the Straw Hats for taking him to "Treasure Island". Back in the present, Fukaboshi and his brothers, along with their guards, are talking to Madam Shyarly about her prediction. Fukaboshi, after discussing the matter with some of the Fish-Man islanders, decides to find and take the Straw Hats into custody. Meanwhile, the Straw Hats, and their friends, discuss amongst themselves and King Neptune.
Eventually, Neptune tells them that their swordsman, Zoro (the king mispronounces his name though, causing Usopp and Nami to correct him and nearly fall of Megalo), has arrived at the Ryugu Palace before them and that he had rudely requested to have some sake to drink while awaiting his crew. Luffy, after Nami and Usopp nearly fell off Megalo, asks Nami where Franky and Robin are. Nami replies that Franky is looking for the relatives of his old shipwright master Tom, he wants to tell the family how much Tom meant to him. Robin replied that she is going to find some information on history of Fish-Man Island, and possibly, something related to the Poneglyphs. After the flashback ends, The group enters the palace and are taken back by its beauty. Upon entering the inside, everyone (mostly the King) are welcomed by an array of guards. The king then tells the Straw Hats to enjoy themselves, however, a voice scolds Neptune for going out without an escort. Everyone is in shock as they watch the king get scolded. Neptune tells the voice, which turns out to be one of Neptunes ministers, that he brought the Straw Hats for the banquet and asks if his daughter, Princess Shirahoshi, is okay.
The two ministers then tell him that "it" happened again, Neptune raises his voice, telling them how important it is to keep the Princess calm, which leads to Neptune getting scolded again. The Minister of the Left then tells the king that a message from his son, Fukaboshi came in, the minister then remarks on how important it is. During this whole commotion, Luffy sneaks away, following the smell of food in the distance. He eventually comes to a large door, which a guard is placing two big carts full of food in. Luffy sneaks past the guard, which is easy to do since the guard much larger than him, and opens the large door into the room. Luffy tries to use his nose to guide him in the dark room to find the food, but as he's making his way towards the food, he ends up on what he thinks to be coral. He remarks on how practically everything on Fish-Man Island is made of coral and precedes to bouncy on the "coral' remarking how it feels like pudding.
A voice calls out and a light is turned on, Luffy, after falling off the "coral" then see's the Mermaid Princess, who is vastly larger than him, and it turns out that the "soft coral" Luffy was curiously playing on and touching up were actually her large breasts. Luffy then comments on the mermaids size, while the princess asks what Luffy was doing on her body. Shirahoshi then asks if Luffy is here to kill her like all the other assassins. She makes a futile attempt to scare Luffy by telling him who she's related to, but she eventually starts to cry. As Luffy is dodging her tears, the episode ends with Luffy remarking on the princess's attitude.

The episode starts off with the guards around Zoro and the others and preparing to pop their air bubble, however, Nami found some bubbly coral and made the whole room fill with air and Zoro prepares to fight Neptune. Shirahoshi is still not sure if she should leave her tower, and Luffy says again he does not like her, causing her to cry some more. Camie and Pappag are shocked that the crew tied up the guards and took Neptune hostage despite Usopp and Brook's comments stating they were just gonna look tough and run away.
Minister of the Right states that when the princes get back, the crew will be done for and Minister of the Left states that the log pose Nami has is no good for the New World. As Fukaboshi arrives at the entrance for the palace, Zoro picks up the Den Den Mushi and negotiates with him over them leaving the island with their crew and all the hostages are free and unharmed. Fukaboshi and Zoro comply with each other and Fukaboshi decides to reveal Jinbe's message to Zoro: "do not fight Hody and I'll be waiting in the Sea Forest." All the citizens on the island all hear about the situation and consider the Straw Hats criminals and plan to arrest them.
At Shyarly's place, the guards try to fight Chopper, however, his new Kung Fu Point is more than a match for them and refuses to be taken down by them and let them take Sanji away.
Back at the palace, Shirahoshi states to Luffy that she wishes to go to the Sea Forest, and Luffy agrees to take her only if she does not act like a crybaby. Vander Decken IX is throwing more objects at her tower prompting Neptune to allow the Straw Hats to go check on her for her safety. Brook decides to go with the Minister of the Right and both notice that Decken threw human pirates as an invasion of the palace. As the pirates try getting up, Luffy leaves with Shirahoshi out of the tower, put with Shirahoshi stuffed inside Megalo's mouth to hide her and prepare to go to the Sea Forest.

Luffy leads Shirahoshi out of her tower inside Megalo while Brook and the Minister of the Right tells them to stop. When Brook and the Minister see that Shirahoshi is not in her tower, they are attacked by human pirates and tell them to take them to the switch to open the palaces gates or they'll die. The story shifts back a few hours to the Fish-Man District with Decken explaining his Mato Mato Curse to the humans and just as he calls out for a demonstration, a voice shouts out for Hody Jones. That person is none other than Hachi who states they should all stop this insanity claiming the Energy Steroids will only destroy their bodies and should not destroy Fish-Man Island or underestimate Neptune.
Hody tells Hachi there is no stopping their objective and they need Fish-Man Island to destroy the human race and carry out Arlong's will. Hachi states that Arlong lost and demands to know why Hyouzou and Decken are working for him despite not working for Arlong in the past. Hyouzou states he's only in it for the money and Decken is there because Hody is not trying to make him his underling, stating he does not work for anyone. Hody states that Luffy is on the island and Hachi states Luffy called him, a former enemy, a friend and even reminds them he saved his life and cannot face Luffy as long as Hody is trying to keep Arlong's dream alive. Hody, disgusted by Hachi, has Decken attack him and "mark" him with his powers and hits him with a knife. As Decken throws arrows at Hachi, he runs for his life in the water only to be pierced by all of them. Hody then tells everyone the plan and Decken throws all the human pirates to the palace.
Back in the present, Brook is running back to the others away from the humans. Sanji and Chopper still fight the guards and defeat all of them due to Sanji wanting to meet the mermaid princess. They hear a person on the shore is hurt and go to see, only to be shocked to see Hachi covered in arrows. Chopper tries healing him, but not before Hachi warns them about the attack and passes out. At the palace, the others are informed of the situation and Zoro prepares to fight the pirates. As Luffy and Shirahoshi go to the Sea Forest, Shirahoshi states that there is a grave she wants to see. At the Sea Forest, someone is talking to a grave stone about her death. That person is none other than Jinbe who comments that her ideals are still alive and that person being Queen Otohime.

Luffy and Shirahoshi are still on their way to the Sea Forest.
At the palace, Neptune begs someone to protect her daughter. Hody just comments on how weak he is and states he only joined his army for military strength and knowledge. He states he will revive the dream and ambition of Arlong. Nami is shocked by hearing this and during his speech she escapes with Camie. Hody declares he will destroy the army and the Straw Hats and begins to flood the palace. He attacks the guards and Neptune defends them. Zoro tries attacking, but Hody blocks the attack with one of his own men. Usopp and Brook are told by Zoro to untie the guards and assist in the fight. Zoro decides to hold off Hody while the others escape and prepares to fight him underwater.
At the coast on the island, Chopper is tending to the injured Hachi while Sanji is noticing the citizens surrounding them. They state that the Straw Hats are responsible for the Mermaid kidnappings and how they should pay for their crimes. Sanji states they did not steal any mermaids and are framed. Luffy and Shirahoshi see them and Luffy goes down to try to figure out what's going on and hears Hachi's pleas of leaving the island. The citizens believe Luffy left the palace and tried to kidnap Shirahoshi, but others state that's impossible due to her size. Unfortunately for Shirahoshi, Megalo has finally reached his limit and pukes her out, shocking the citizens. Chopper comments on her size and begs Sanji not to turn around or he will die and the citizens believe that the crew kidnapped her.

The episode starts with everyone exclaiming that the Mermaid Princess has been kidnapped. Luffy asks Shirahoshi why she got out of Megalo's mouth, she apologizes and asks him not to get mad at her as she starts to cry. As someone calls Luffy filthy and heartless, Chopper urges Sanji not to turn around. Sanji realizes that Chopper's warning can only mean that the Mermaid Princess is right behind him. Chopper tells him he is correct, but seeing the princess would without a doubt kill him if a normal mermaid made him lose so much blood before.
As Sanji begins to get lost in thought, he remembers hearing that even the most beautiful woman in the world, the pirate empress, would pale in comparison, and realizes that his dream is now in his grasp. He then tells Chopper that for the sake of his dreams, he chooses death - Chopper retorts by exclaiming that he thought that his dream was to find the All Blue. He turns around and looks at her. He realizes that he is gazing upon something that his imagination could never fathom, that no painting could ever capture. He then turns to stone, much to Chopper's shock.
Luffy is examining Hatchan, trying to get Hachi to tell him who attacked him. Chopper wonders if Sanji turning to stone could be from a side effect of receiving okama blood. Shirahoshi cries and asks Luffy what she should do, but all of a sudden, the locals take action and tie up Luffy, Chopper, Hatchan, and the still petrified Sanji. Luffy asks them what they are doing, and the locals tell him not to underestimate the warriors of Fish-Man Island. One of the locals identifies Hatchan as a former member of Arlong's gang. Shirahoshi tries to explain to everyone that Luffy was only helping her, but the locals will not listen and promise to behead the pirates. Luffy then notices something and tells them that something is flying toward them from behind the crowd, but a local asks Luffy if he really thinks they are dumb enough to fall for that.
Someone then notices that Luffy is not lying, and everyone is shocked to see it is none other than Vander Decken IX. Decken yells that he found her, this time saying "Of course I did" instead of "I think". The locals are shocked that after hiding out for ten years, he now suddenly appeared on the island, and someone yells for Shirahoshi to run for it. Decken tells Shirahoshi to give him an answer, saying she will escape death if she says yes, telling her to run away with him and marry him. The locals are shocked to hear him ask for marriage after constantly attempting to take her life. Shirahoshi tells him she is sorry, but he is not her type.
The locals are comically stunned to find out that is why she will not marry him, and not his violent tendencies. Decken is crushed, and actually looks emotionally hurt. He tells her she should be ashamed of herself, because he has had feelings for her for the past ten years and then she steps all over them. He then asks her who she is planning to be with. He goes on to say that now that he knows her feelings toward him, her existence is now an eyesore. He gets ready to attack her as a local tells her to run, but Luffy tells her to wait, having now dubbed her 'scaredy cat'.
A local grabs him by the collar, and asks him if he is working for Decken, and if he wants the princess to die. Luffy shouts that if she gets too far away from him, then he cannot protect her, so Shirahoshi tells Luffy she will remain with him. Decken then attacks Shirahoshi with another axe with a rose painted on it. Luffy tries to help, but is blocked by locals who still think he is trying to harm the princess. Luffy apologizes, saying he has nothing against them, then knocks them out with a burst of Haoshoku Haki because they are in his way. He then kicks off from the ground, flying toward Decken who is still on the coral. He does a flip in the air and brings his legs down on the coral, sending it crashing to the ground and knocking Decken off. The locals are amazed at Luffy's abilities, even when he is tied up.
Decken asks Luffy why he is interfering with his and Shirahoshi's love, and figures that Luffy was the one who brought Shirahoshi out of the palace. And Luffy realizes that Decken was the one who had been throwing things at Shirahoshi as he gets ready to do an attack. Decken tells him he will take both of their lives, saying they would not be a pair, as they would be cut into a set of four. Luffy then uses a new technique, Gomu Gomu no Jet Hammer, plowing Vander Decken IX into the ground head first. The locals are shocked to see that Luffy beat Vander Decken.
They then realize that Decken was still moving, despite being planted head first into the ground, and decide to capture him. Luffy headbutts Megalo, telling him to wake up and asks Sanji if he is alright. Chopper tells Luffy that Sanji had turned to stone earlier, but now he seems happy, and most importantly, conscious. Luffy tells Shirahoshi they need to go. Shirahoshi asks Luffy not to yell at her, as all the excitement has gotten her quite worked up. Luffy tells her that for some reason the island hates them, and they need to get out of here.
Shirahoshi unties Luffy, making the locals wonder why she is helping him. She apologizes to them, and tells them she will be home in time for dinner, which confuses them. The Straw Hats get on Megalo's back, and Shirahoshi grabs on to his jaws (much to his discomfort), as they get away. Just as they get away, Vander Decken IX gets his head out of the ground and swats away the people trying to capture him. Yelling that they will not get away, he calls on Wadatsumi and tells him to pound them into the ground. Wadatsumi gets ready to punch them, but Luffy beats him to it, and hits him in the face with a Gomu Gomu no Jet Pistol, breaking one of his teeth. Decken seems upset that they got away.
The scene changes to the Ryugu Palace, where someone informs Jones that Nami and Camie had escaped. Jones tells him to ignore it. Nami and Camie are then seen escaping, with the former holding onto the latter's back with an air bubble around her head. Camie asks if it was ok for them to leave the others behind but Nami tells her to relax, as nothing good could come by worrying. Camie tells her she knows that they are all strong, but that Hatchan told her that Jones's mind is more dangerous than his strength. Nami then asks her what kind of person Jinbe is. Camie replies that he is a pirate who is popular at the Ryugu Palace and can come and go as he pleases. Nami remembers that he was also in the same crew as Arlong, and that Jones is the successor to Arlong's will.
She then mentions one of Jinbe's messages to Luffy, "Don't fight Hody". Nami adds that she thinks she has figured out what the message means. Camie tells her she thought it only meant that Jones is dangerous. Nami adds that it is okay for Zoro and the others to get Jones angry. She then tells Camie she wants to meet Jinbe, and remembers he is waiting at the Sea Forest. Nami says that the situation seems to have a long and deep-rooted history, and has a feeling that Jinbe knows all about it. She then asks Camie to head to the sea forest.
Back in the palace, Neptune is giving orders to his guards. The soldiers tell him they will take care of Jones and the pirates. Neptune tells them not to. He tells them that even though he did not get a chance to fight, they all ended up as victims. He orders them to surrender the castle for now, reunite with Fukaboshi, and get ready for the rematch.
The guards are shocked at the orders. Usopp and Brook are in the water. Usopp wonders what Zoro can do to fight a fish-man in the water as Brook tells Usopp he is not going to make it. The episode ends with Zoro seemingly defeating Jones with a single slash, and the New Fish-Man Pirates astounded at what happened to their captain, with Usopp looking on in shock.

Robin is seen walking through the Sea Forest and eventually finds what she was looking for. Meanwhile, Neptune's army escapes the palace and the Ministers lament on how this has turned out. The Minister of the Right tells the soldiers to look for the princes and then they'll come back to reclaim the palace. While this is going on, the New Fish-Man Pirates are forcing the citizens of Fish-Man Island to step on a Fumi-e of Otohime's face as loyalty. As Dosun is forcing the citizens to do this, Fukaboshi arrives and punches him in the face in anger for forcing the citizens to step the on the Fumi-e of his late mother's face.
At the graveyard, Jinbe reassures Shirahoshi that her father will be saved. Sanji is serving tea to the girls and Nami tells him to settle down as she's trying to have a conversation with Jinbe and wants to know if he really did send Arlong to the East Blue. Sanji also wants to know as he remembers Jinbe's name from what Yosaku mentioned two years ago and from reading the paper involving Luffy working together with Jinbe. He goes on to state how hard Nami has had it with Arlong for eight long years and claims what he says next will decide if he forgives him or not. Jinbe is left shocked by hearing this and Hachi states it's all true, while Nami reminisces her time with Arlong's gang. Nami states that no matter what, she will never forgive Arlong for what he did and notes that from two years ago on Sabaody, she never imagined that Fish-Men would ever be captured and noticed that Sabaody Park is identical to Arlong Park in design. Hachi states that Arlong always hated humans, but as a child, along with Hachi and the others, desired to be a part of the Human world. He states that 200 years ago was when the World Government made a truce with Fish-Men and the king was later able to attend the council of kings. However, mankind still hated fish-men.
Den talks about how the Great Pirate Era caused great trouble on the island and Jinbe states how that was ended thanks to the late Whitebeard. Jinbe talks about how those in the government with power are the ones who are the worst in discrimination, such as the World Nobles. He states that two people on the island attempted to make a change for Fish-Men: the hero of slaves, Fisher Tiger, and the late queen, Otohime. While Luffy cannot remember Tiger completely from his talk with Hancock, Jinbe states it was because of these two that changed the history of the island.

Jinbe decides to tell the others and Nami about how Tiger and Otohime tried to change Fish-Man Island. The story now goes back 16 years ago, on Fish-Man Island, a robber has taken some money with a hostage, then the Queen rushes over to help despite her guards saying they'll handle it.
The robber warns her and shoots, but Otohime dodges with the usage of Kenbunshoku Haki and slaps the robber. She screams in pain from the slap due to her fragile body. She asks the robber why he did what he did, and he states that he has 10 children that need feeding and his job burnt down and needs the money, while Otohime just slaps him to knock some sense into him. She then cries apologizing for not knowing the pain he was going through and he starts crying to for what he did, but was desperate to help his wife and children.
The guards arrest him and he swears he will become a changed man and Otohime supports him. The citizens all commend Otohime and how she always tries to help others. Otohime now gives a speech about humans and how they shouldn't judge them and try to befriend them above the surface and encourages the citizens to sign a petition for a migration for the World Council coming up. The citizens refuse because of their dislike towards humans, while Jinbe just comments that this will never change anything.
At the palace, Otohime returns to her children and comforts a crying baby Shirahoshi while the brothers promised they looked after her. Neptune is seen talking with the ministers about Otohime's dream while telling them about how their ancestors tried to take the Fish-Men to the surface hundreds of years ago using the Noah, but ended in failure. He tells them to look over Otohime. The next day, at a bar, some pirates are harassing a Fish-Man waitress stating that they think Fish-Men are just so special and Jinbe steps in and tells them to shut up as they are making his sake taste bad.
Jinbe is revealed as a soldier of the army at age 30. In the town, Arlong takes the forms and states that he's been doing the army's job and has been killing humans on the island. A soldier asks for "Boss" Jinbe's help and Jinbe tells Arlong to knock it off and states that he does not really care about those papers, but they're important to the queen. Arlong does and states it's been a long time "Brother". Jinbe just calls him trash and scum stating he does not want anything to do with Arlong. Fisher Tiger arrives and the citizens greet him along with Arlong and Jinbe with Tiger greeting the two. Jinbe states he was on a long trip this time and Tiger states he has some business to attend to at the palace. When he arrives, he tells the King that he's going to free the slaves and when Neptune asks what he saw, he just says "humans", and seemingly explains what he saw, causing Otohime to break into tears. Sometime later, news of Tiger's raid on Mary Geoise made it's way to all of Fish-Man Island and as a result, the whole island is in an uproar celebrating Tiger's heroism. As a result, Jinbe leaves the army, Arlong's gang and Macro's join the Sun Pirates with the slaves.

The story now goes 15 years into the past, as Neptune, holding a baby Shirahoshi, comments on how Tiger's actions will stop Fish-Man Island from attending the World Summit for a while. Otohime comments that they could never have stopped him after hearing the voice in his heart. Tiger's attack on Mary Geoise is spread throughout the whole island and everyone celebrates his attack and freeing the slaves, calling him the hero of Fish-Man Island. Otohime tries to get others to sign her petition for migrating to the human world, only to be turned down by the people due to them celebrating Fisher Tiger and his attack and they all leave. At the Fish-Man District a young Hody Jones and New Fish-Man Pirates all comment on Tiger's attack, wishing to have joined them. They cheer them on believing that their goal is killing humans.
At the Sun Pirates, Hachi tells the boss that there is a Marine ship coming and the crew prepare for battle. Arlong leads the attack and the Marines are having a hard time attacking them due to them being underwater. Rear Admiral Kadar demands that they return the slaves and the Marines are being attacked under the ship. A Marine states to Jinbe that it's a crime for freeing slaves and that the Fish-Men should never go against humans. Jinbe, enraged, brutally assaults the human and asks why freeing slaves is a crime while slavery is not a crime and asks Otohime if this is the peace they can have with humans. Tiger begins his attack on the Marines and Kadar demands that he gives back the slaves only for Tiger to defeat him with a kick and ask what slaves are on the ship, stating that if they have a slave mark, then they should be found but due to the sun mark they cannot tell which is which. Tiger declares he will not have them killed, but will take their belongings and Arlong tries to kill a human for stating that being a human is sinful and Tiger tries to stop him but is too late.
At Marineford, Vice Admiral Borsalino is hearing a report from Rear Admiral Strawberry, about the crew and how powerful they are, for defeating Kadar and how dangerous they are in the water. Back at the Sun Pirates, Tiger is scolding Arlong for killing that Marine despite his protests. Jinbe states that they are out to kill the crew and they have to step up to be ready for them. Tiger states that killing them will make them as bad as the humans, stating this is not for revenge and neither what he did at Mary Geoise. He states that the Sun Pirates are about freedom and liberation and that they will never kill anyone. Arlong protests stating they should kill humans to make an example out of them and scare them only for Jinbe to punch him in the head for disobedience. At night, Tiger has a private talk with Jinbe and tells him that the "demons" that dwell within his heart are the most terrifying. Over time, as Otohime continues to try gaining supporters for her petition, Tiger and Jinbe gain bounties of 230 million and 76 million, respectively.
Three years later, on an island, Tiger would be asked by the people to take a former slave named Koala home and agreed while Koala would thank Tiger for what he did. Arlong is disgusted for having a human on board and assaults her for constantly smiling while Hachi holds him back. She gets up and rips some of her pants and starts cleaning the deck while blood is coming out of her nose, confusing the crew and even Arlong. Jinbe asks what she's doing and she just continually apologizes and states she will not stop working and will not cry so she will not be killed. Jinbe is shocked and takes pity on how traumatized she is and realizes how afraid she is of them because she wants to go home. Aladine states that she's acting like this because she may have seen other slaves been killed for taking breaks or not smiling and thinks she cannot trust anyone. Tiger decides to take her to his room and marks her with the sun symbol stating while it's harsh, she cannot forget the fact she was once a slave but can hide the mark. She later wakes up and apologizes for passing out, but did not cry, causing Tiger to yell stating it's alright to cry, stating they are not like the stupid World Nobles. He takes a gun and throws it overboard to prove a point and states that they will not kill anyone and tells his crew that they'll take her home no matter what, causing Koala to finally cry.

The Sun Pirates get the Eternal Pose to Koala's hometown. Koala has been given a new look and has lost some of her trauma, as Aladine notes that trauma is not something you get over so easily. Koala sails with fish-men and learns that they are not like the Celestial Dragons. Arlong does not get along with Koala, while Jinbe changes his views about human beings, recalling what Otohime said about them and realizing she may be right. Koala's time with the Sun Pirates becomes fun as all the members (except Arlong) get along.
Koala reaches her hometown and Fisher Tiger accompanies her. Koala reunites with her mother and cries after seeing her. She says to her mother that fish-men are nice people and says her goodbyes to Tiger stating she will never forget him with Tiger just smiling back at her.
Just as Fisher Tiger leaves, he gets attacked by Marines with Rear Admiral Strawberry stating that someone from the village has informed him about his arrival, but the people on the island were alright with the Marines attacking him in exchange that Koala will not return to the Celestial Dragons as property. He tells Tiger that his crimes are assault and evasion. Jinbe hears gunshots and sees Marine battleships arrive and start attacking the ship while Arlong comments on how this is what humans are. Meanwhile, Jinbe says to Arlong that they need to go and find Fisher Tiger to bring him back safely. Arlong hijacks one of the Marines ships and Jinbe and the others manage to save Tiger. Tiger however, has sustained several injuries with blood all over him from the bullet wounds while Koala is unaware of what happened and her mother not telling her what happened.
On the ship they hijacked, Aladine tries to perform a blood transfusion to save Tiger because human blood is the same as fish-man's, but Fisher Tiger refuses to transfuse human blood into his body, stating it has the blood of humans who hate fish-men and that their blood is tainted and he will not give in to humans. Tiger explains to his crew that he was a slave and how he escaped and why he saved all the slaves. He says that both humans as well as fish-men need peace and admits that Otohime was right and that only the children of the next generation like Koala who aren't prejudiced, and asks his crew not to tell the island of what really happened nor of their grudge and hatred towards the humans for the sake of the future. He states that his body would reject that blood due to the demon that dwells inside his heart and he's tried but he just cannot ever love a human. Jinbe and Aladine beg Tiger to live and reassure him of how he's the hero of slaves and the greatest fish-man ever, giving Tiger comfort as he remembers his youth and the episode ends with Fisher Tiger's death and his crew grieving the loss of their beloved captain.

Arlong is enraged over Tiger's death and, rather than choosing to obey Tiger's last wish, he does the exact opposite of what Tiger wanted: as he returns to Koala's home island, he plans to get revenge on the humans that sold him out. However, Vice-admiral Borsalino is there and easily defeats Arlong. Arlong states he's here to kill all the humans that sold Tiger out and how Tiger is now dead while Borsalino just states now he's gonna take him with him. At the G-2 Base, Arlong is being interrogated and yells how if not for human's blood being the cause of Tiger's death he would still be alive and states that humans killed Fisher Tiger. The next day Jinbe is reading the newspaper and notes how Arlong left out several details and lied to the Marines. Aladine states he did so that Tiger's reputation and pride would stay safe. Jinbe, agreeing with Aladine, states that they have to continue on now and prepare for battle and states that they will not kill anyone. At Marineford, Strawberry tells Borsalino about how dangerous Jinbe is.
At the palace, Neptune and Otohime are reading a letter from Jinbe about the truth of Tiger and how they support Otohime's cause. Otohime gains more confidence and strives to gain more peace with humans and merfolk. She continues to gain more signatures, but the citizens are even more distrusting towards humans due to the news about Tiger and how they just cannot trust humans because of this. After the day, Shirahoshi at age 4 and the princes comfort her from her long day. Jinbe goes on to state how she continued to save humans and teach children about the outside world and continuing to gain more signatures. One day, a citizen asks how many signatures Otohime has. Otohime states there are 5 million people on the island and she only has 1,000 signatures, but still has a long way to go. The citizen and others ask for their signatures back, and so do some of the children having been told so by their parents. They state that they listen to her because she's queen, but it's the humans and cannot live with them and are tired of her speeches. They take all the signatures and the Minister of the Right can only take pity on the queen. At the palace, Otohime returns and is crying to herself with Neptune listening in depression. The next day, Otohime, drunk, makes a broadcast announcement for the whole island about how they choose to live on the bottom of the surface because of how there's a little light and air to live off of. She goes on to state how the children sneak off to view the outside world and how the people of the island are afraid of change for the world and if they can change that, then maybe they can see all the true wonders of the world. This seems to have an effect on the people.
One day, Jinbe receives a message from the World Government about becoming a Shichibukai. Macro states that because his bounty is now at 250 million and they are afraid of him. Jinbe actually decides to take them up on this offer. At the palace, Jinbe is speaking with Neptune about his decision to become a Shichibukai to promote peace for merfolk and Neptune is grateful, stating Otohime would appreciate this and this is what Tiger would have wanted, however, Hody Jones does not like this.
Jinbe decides to have Arlong released from Impel Down and the crew all rejoice that he's back. Arlong decides to leave since Jinbe is now a dog of the government and will take his Arlong Pirates to do what he wants and if Jinbe wants to stop him, he will have to kill him and yells that he will become the rage of Fish-Men. Jinbe, finally losing his temper with Arlong, brutally beats him half-dead with his fists, but, due to everything they've been together, cannot bring himself to kill him and lets him go. Aladine reassures him that if Arlong decides to do anything funny, they'll be there to stop him while Jinbe shows his frustration on how Arlong cannot understand Tigers wish. The episode ends with Arlong's and Macros crew leaving the Sun Pirates.

With Jinbe having been accepted as a Shichibukai, the Sun Pirates return to Fish-Man Island and resume their lives as normal citizens all showing their gratefulness towards Tiger. At the palace, Otohime expresses her gratitude towards Jinbe's efforts for helping her cause. One day, the island receives a distress call from a wrecked ship and they are hesitant to let them in because they realized there is a World Noble on board, shocking the Minister of the Right. Otohime says to let them in and says she will be their to help while Neptune wonders why a World Noble is on the island. The all citizens saw the wrecked ship and wonder why he's on the island due to how much they look down on their kind. The Noble starts shooting at others and demands to be saved, stating that the island reaks of fish and that he should be given a mask so he will not have to breath the same air as commoners. The infobox reveals his name to be Mjosgard. The citizens are all angry at how he's demanding help from his rude behavior and how he's shooting at others for help. Mjosgard laments how this turned out recalling his talk with his father about how the slaves of the Sun Pirates and wanted to go to Fish-Man Island to reclaim his "prized Fish-Man collection". The soldiers wonder what to do with him and Hody Jones states they should kill him as he's the worst kind of human in the world. Decken hears the commotion and decides to head on over. Jinbe and Aladine arrive and tells the princes and Shirahoshi to stay back. When Shirahoshi asks Fukaboshi what a World Noble is, he says they are humans, but very bad ones.
As Mjosgard continues to demand for help, members of the Sun Pirates step up and Mjosgard recognizes some of them and demands them to come back as he's their master telling them they could never be free when he did not say so. Just then, they all point their guns at Mjosgard. The citizens tell them not to as they'll get into trouble if they kill him. One pirate member says that an Admiral can be summoned if a World Noble will be in danger, however, should there be no one to report the attack and just leave it off as a shipwreck incident because of the ocean floor, leaving Mjosgard horrified. The citizens realize he's right and support them stating the Noble should die for what he did to them. Mjosgard says that because he's a Noble he should be saved and tells them not to. The pirate says that he's tried but he cannot ever forgive him for what he did to them and just as he pulls the trigger, Otohime arrives and saves Mjosgard. She was only scratched and says to put their guns away as the children are watching. The pirates ask if they know what he did to them and she says she understands and can feel their pain, however, they cannot let their hatred or resentment be passed on towards the children or it'll be spread. Jinbe remembers what Tiger said about hatred and realizes Otohime's right. Just then, Mjosgard gets up and holds Otohime hostage stating that whether she's a queen of a kingdom or a "fish" kingdom, she's still lower in status than him and demands to be given a doctor and a mask. Just as he's about to kill her, Shirahoshi screams out for her mother and five Sea Kings pop up and horrify the citizens, Jinbe, Decken, Mjosgard and even Hody and the soldiers. Otohime is shocked by what Shirahoshi did while Jinbe wonders what happened and Hody gives a shocked look at Shirahoshi. Decken realizes Shirahoshi is the legend of the Mermaid Princess who can control Sea Kings and was what his ancestor, the very first Vander Decken searched for his whole life for. Decken shouts out to his ancestors that he finally found her and tells his crew that if he wants her power, he needs to marry her first, however, his crew reminds him that she's just a little girl prompting him to realize thats a problem. Aladine, seeing Mjosgard decides to treat him and then Otohime.
A few weeks pass and Mjosgard recovered, though he was entirely ungrateful, calling them cattle and saying they would regret it, while the soldiers comment on how ungrateful he is that they saved his life and shouldn't let him go as the island was in trouble if they let him go. Otohime wishes to go with him to the world above to prove that it's safe to travel up to the surface. Though reluctant, the citizens and family allow it and wish her the best of luck and return home safely.

Decken hears about the Tamatebako and tells his men to get it for him and when they cannot, he decides to wait a few years until Shirahoshi is older. Otohime returns and explains that the World Nobles have a lot of influence on the world and returned with a signature by them and all the citizens finally give her their signatures for her cause. She celebrates with her children and husband. At the palace, Otohime explains to her sons about the Sea King incident and how Shirahoshi was the one who summoned them. She explains that mermaids have the ability to communicate with fish, however, a Mermaid Princess of legend is capable of communicating with the Sea Kings. She states that this power is capable of creating great good for the world, however, in the wrong hands it can destroy the world if used wrong. Also, she explains that Shirahoshi is unaware of this ability and if she would one day lose control of her emotions, she could destroy the island. Otohime asks her sons to become strong warriors and protect their sister and they all agree.
At the plaza, someone set fire to the boxes of signature and Otohime asks to try to save them. During the confusion, someone shoots Otohime. Jinbe and Alladin tell the soldiers to find the shooter and look after her children. Fukaboshi and her children rush over to her side. Shirahoshi is stunned by what happened and Decken comes up and marks her with his Mato Mato no Mi powers and leaves. Fukaboshi swears revenge on who did this, however, Otohime asks not to and not hold hatred towards the shooter so their will not be anymore hatred spread through the island and states she let her guard down because she was happy. Shirahoshi begins to lose is and Ryuboshi and Manboshi remember what their mother said before and as Shirahoshi loses control of herself, the two brothers start dancing and singing to calm her down stating they'll always watch over their sister while everyone else are shocked by what their doing. Fukaboshi tearfully promises his mother that they'll start over and keep her dream alive so she does not have to worry and protect Shirahoshi. Otohime is glad and they all touch pinky fingers one last time and Otohime dies.

After Otohime passed away, Hody Jones caught and shot a human pirate whom he claimed to be Otohime's assassin. Despite Jinbe's orders to hide the body, Hody exposed to the crying people that a human killed Otohime. Neptune locks himself inside Hard-Shell tower and refuses to come out until he calms down. The Minister's keep him accompanied during his time and Neptune comments, he would have killed the shooter even if he was unarmed and realized Otohime would not want that. He comments on the cycle of hatred and revenge and knows when it starts and by killing someone would spread hatred and make the children's eyes cold from witnessing it and harbor hatred. He could relate to what Otohime was trying to do but is torn from his duties as a king to carry out her wishes and his duties as a husband for wanting to avenge his beloved wife. He states as a soldier he avenged his comrades lives and killed several humans and was unable to help Otohime due to what he did in the past. After a few days he's finally calmed down, and returned to the palace to consult his children. On the day of Queen Otohime's funeral, he hears from Shirahoshi that letters have been flying to her and that someone named Vander Decken IX is wanting her hand in marriage, enraging Neptune due to her only being six years old. Neptune wants him found and chooses not to have his children attend the funeral due to the posibility of him being there. Everyone in Fish-Man Island attended Queen Otohime's funeral, where Fukaboshi announced on a video screen that he and his siblings will carry out their mother's dream.
As the flashback ended, Jinbe asks Nami for forgiveness for letting Arlong run free and cause her pain stating that he will take any punishment she wishes, but Nami states that she resents only Arlong and not any other fish-man and is happy as she is now, leaving Jinbe and Hachi crying over her forgiveness, stating he's indebted towards her. After Sanji kicks Luffy for sleeping through the whole story, Hachi goes on to explain Hody's hatred towards humans and how it's even greater than Arlong's. He states how this year is the year of the World Summit and how Neptune was going to spread the news of the people spreading towards the world and says Hody is going to take his place and cause something worse. Before he can finish, a large mobile visual Den Den Mushi appears with Hody making an announcement about the New Fish-Man Pirates' takeover to the entire island.

Hody Jones makes his broadcast so the whole island can hear his plans to do with the other people of the island. He announces that he will be the new king of the island and that there are some changes. While other citizens are forced to step on Otohime's face on a picture, they wonder why Hody is doing this as they remember him shooting Otohime's shooter. Hody says that the people shouldn't be willing to migrate with humans since they are responsible for killing Otohime and demands to know why they cannot understand that and claims the Neptune family is leading them to death. He reveals King Neptune is being held hostage and his plans: three hours from now he will take the head of the worthless king at Gyoncorde Plaza. Hody then goes through the list of people who put their supports for Otohime's cause and calls it a list of traitors and plans to end the people who are stepping on her face to stop since it's too easy to tell who's lying and being truthful and states that he will go out and kill all the people listed on the papers that support Otohime. He then makes one final announcement that is directed towards the Straw Hat Pirates, he reveals that he has Zoro, Usopp, and Brook held hostage and will drown them in three hours and plans to take Luffy's head to the world as an example to scare the public and end the crew due to them having ended Arlong's ambition. Neptune expresses his disgust towards Hody, calling him selfish, while Hody says that's fine since a king is allowed to be selfish. Fukaboshi and his brothers who were watching declare they will stop Hody. In the palace, Usopp asks Zoro to save them and Zoro just calmly asks for him to get rid of the chains on him and it does not work when he tries to wish them away. Brook jokes about how he scared the crew when they thought he was dead only for Zoro and Usopp to yell at him stating that if he just played dead they would have escaped. Zoro states that since Nami got away they can be saved and Usopp just makes a Robin impersonation about what may happen to Nami while Brook laughs.
At the Sea Forest, Robin is seen reading the Poneglyph and notes how it's different from all the other ones she's read up until now and how it's in the form of an apology letter. She wonders who Joy Boy was who is named on the Poneglyph. With Luffy's group, Luffy is happy over his bounty increase while Nami scolds him. Jinbe wishes to make up a plan and Shirahoshi tries to leave with Megalo to save her father only to be stopped by Jinbe. Hachi explains to Shirahoshi about her ability and how Hody is afraid of her while Shirahoshi is not sure about her abilities. Luffy decides to take the fight to Hody only for Jinbe to stop him, telling him that since they are humans the fish-men will resent them more and says to leave things to him. Luffy refuses since his crew is in trouble and will not just do nothing and if Jinbe wants to stop him then he will have to fight him. Jinbe realizes he's right and since he's Ace's younger brother and the two prepare to fight.

Luffy and Jinbe start their duel to see who gets to fight Hody, and as Luffy tries to leave, Jinbe attacks him with his Fish-Man Karate, hurting Luffy. Nami wonders how it hurt him since he's a rubber man and Jinbe explains the mechanics behind Fish-Man Karate. As Luffy activates Gear Second and the two are about to clash, Robin interferes and as Sanji tries to save her, she disappears and Luffy, Jinbe, and Sanji all hit each other while the real Robin comes out of the forest revealing she's learned how to make clones of herself.
At the palace, Brook comes up with an idea to escape and shows off a new skill that involves him separating his soul from his body shocking Usopp and Zoro. He explains that he learned this trick from praying one day and has been using it's power to peek on girls while giving a perverted look, much to Usopp's jealousy. Zoro tells him to find Pappag and get him a sword and says he will cut the bars off of them. Brook eventually finds him, but Pappag is terrified and runs away screaming at Brook's ghoulish appearance thinking he's a ghost while Brook tries to tell him to give him a sword for Zoro. Meanwhile, Hody and his crew prepare to go to Gyonchorde Plaza to kill Neptune, however, the wound Zoro gave him is still hurting and takes more Energy Steroids to relieve him of the pain. As he's told of all the other Fish-Man moving into the homes on the island he says that's good and will make a new island of Fish-Man who hate humans. Fukaboshi and his brothers eventually defeat Dosun and his allies and head off to save their father.
At the Sea Forest, Luffy, Jinbe and Sanji pick themselves up from the attacks they received and Jinbe tells Luffy the reasons they cannot fight since it will just cause more hatred towards Fish-Man if humans get involved, especially the ones who stopped Arlong. Sanji states that since their crew is involved and the crisis that the island is in they just cannot leave the way things are now and have to help. He also notices how quite Hachi has been and recalls his statement about Hody showing no mercy towards Fish-Man who are friends towards humans and asks if Hody and the others hurt him cause of their friendship together. Camie also asks, but Hachi does not give a straight answer. Sanji says they have a reason to fight but then becomes all perverted saying it's to protect Shirahoshi and the mermaids he's met, much to Nami's annoyment. Luffy again tells Jinbe to move aside so he can beat Hody. However, Jinbe still will not allow him to go, stating that he himself must go and confront Hody, causing the two to duel again.

While Hody Jones and his crew are on their way to Gyonchorde Plaza, the other members of the New Fish-Man Pirates are causing trouble over Fish-Man Island.
Daruma is chewing through the Candy Factory with his jaws and states it's cause his fangs ache. He tells his crew that he's heading towards the plaza and tells them to meet him their and says the citizens have no more hope while digging away towards the plaza. One citizen says only the princes can defeat the crew since they have four shark fish-men, a squid and a octopus merman in the crew. With Dosun, he's weakened and tied up thanks to Fukaboshi having defeated him. The citizens wonder if they can exchange him and the others for Neptunes sake but Dosun says that's useless and while he speaks a crew member shoots an Energy Steroid in his mouth and his speech gradually changes while he states Hody would not hesitate to throw away his crew members for their cause and when his speech goes back to "dosun", he breaks free from his chains and starts rampaging and destroys some of the buildings with his hammer and tells his men to head towards the plaza. With Hyouzou, he's become very drunk  from drinking too much and his crew tries to help him up to fight properly since they think he cannot hold a sword while another member warns them about him being very dangerous when drunk and Hyouzou grabs his swords and starts attacking in a mad frenzy and kills some of the crew members while unable to speak clearly about what he wants. With Zeo, he's causing trouble with his camouflage ability and harming several citizens while claiming they have no more hope and the princes will be defeated soon. His crew members comment on his abilities and while he's talking they see a cockroach and try crushing it while the citizens notice how he's stopped talking. It's revealed his crew member accidentally smashed Zeo with their weapons while Zeo starts talking more like it did not affect him while his crew comments on how he's called the Noble of Fish-Man District due to his skills. Zeo tells his men about his beliefs and they head towards the plaza. 
Meanwhile, Hody is suffering pain from the wound Zoro gave him again and demands more Energy Steroids despite a crew members protest and shovels down several of them and starts suffering great pain because of them. Back at the Sea Forest, Luffy and Jinbe are still arguing, with Chopper commenting that both want to save the island and their friends and can't understand why they have to fight one another when they both want to save Fish-Man Island. Meanwhile, the princes are all along their way to the plaze to save their father while Fukaboshi comments on how he thinks the Straw Hats are not bad and may have been misjudged, while his brothers agree with them. With Ikaros Much, the ministers and soldiers are laying beaten and almost killed from a Sea Bear. A member tries calming it down with fire only for Ikaros to curl up due to his fear of fire and tells them to put it out saying if they were trying to kill him he'd kill them first. A crew member says he's afraid of fire due to his childhood friend Daidalos getting too close to the sun and becoming dried squid. Ikaros stabs the offender and tells him to be more careful and his spear is a dried squid spear that sucks up all the moisture from the body and Ikaros flattens him with his multiple arms.
As Hody and the others arrive and the citizens call out to Neptune, he says he shouldn't be called a great knight since he cannot even protect his people. Ikaros wants to know where Hody is and his crew members tell him about his wound and how he's been taking so many Energy Steroids and before he can finish Neptune scolds Hody for taking so many pills while saying he relies on them too much and Hody tells him to shut up as he starts screaming in pain. Ikaros comments on how dangerous the drug is and Hody's body starts feeling in great pain and transforms into a monster from his old self becoming much larger and terrifying to the point the animals are all scared. Hody comments on how he's much better now and uses a water shot on Neptunes army and it levels the whole area much to Neptunes shock. Hody then laughs at his new found strength.

Hody watches the destruction he had unleashed with his enhanced water bullet and Ikaros comments on how Hody was writhing in agony by the Energy Steroid overdose before his transformation. The citizens watched in horror, not only the destruction of the district, but the utter defeat of Neptune's army, with both the Minister of the Right and Minister of the Left were left critically injured in the attack. King Neptune watched helplessly as his soldiers were wiped out, and Hody resumes his path to Gyoncorde Plaza. The Minister of the Left just regained consciousness as he watched his king get taken away to his execution. As the citizens help the army up from the rubble, the minister laments over how they were almost there to fulfilling the late Queen Otohime's dream of a peaceful coexistence with humans until Hody came and threw the island in turmoil. He then begged towards the sky hoping that someone will save the king before Hody executes him. Hody and his pirates continues their trek towards the plaza with everyone on the ground watching them, including Madam Shyarly.
Back at the Fish-Man District, Vander Decken IX cries in grief over his rejection by Princess Shirahoshi, with his crew trying to cheer him up, but he angrily refuses their help saying that they do not know whats it like to be broken-hearted. He even went as far as to shave off his hair but only the top scalp. He began plotting to kill Shirahoshi for deceiving him in his own twisted perception, as he knows he still have the means to send weapons at her but remembers Luffy will still be protecting her. Torn over what to do, he then notices the giant ship situated near the district. He began laughing insanely, saying that he's got an idea to destroy everything.
As Hody and his pirates reach the plaza on their sea-animal mounts, they are greeted by the remaining soldiers of Neptune's army all armed with rifles aimed at them and their captain orders Hody to release King Neptune or they will open fire. The situation turned dire when the soldiers sees Neptune held at gunpoint. The king then yells at his soldiers to run away so they will not die meaningless deaths, but Ikaros Much will not allow it and orders the sea-bear to charge. The soldiers began to fire at the sea-bear with most of the shots striking at the bubble holding the creature afloat.
As the sea-bear looms over the soldiers, the bubble burst, sending the huge beast crashing on top of the soldiers. Those who weren't crushed were either trampled or sent plummeting down the wall. As the soldiers at the center of the plaza watch this happening, they were then greeted by the New Fish-Man Pirates officers as well as their mounts, leaving them surrounded on all sides. Outside the locked plaza gates, the citizens are climbing the walls to see the outcome of the battle occurring in the plaza. Their first sight is the defeat of the soldiers by the sea-beasts, King Neptune held by poles, and the cheering of the New Fish-Man Pirates.
At the sea forest, Jinbe is finally setting out with Shirahoshi and Megalo to Gyoncorde Plaza, commenting on how Luffy gave him a lot of trouble. Before leaving he asks Camie to look after Hatchan. Luffy and his crew are nowhere to be seen.
Back at the Plaza, it has became clear that Hody and his crew are the victors, however one badly injured soldier refuses to admit defeat and is prepared to launch a suicide attack on the officers before the princes arrive. The officers as well as Hody noticed him and Hody, not wanting any disruptions attacked the soldier with an enhanced water shot before the solder can light the fuse, killing him and breaking through the wall of the plaza where it kept going, destroying everything in its path until it reached Mermaid Cove where it fell into the sea as a harmless drop of water. The Fish-Man pirates were left in shock over the strength of the attack, while the officers were in awe and talked with Hody over his transformation, asking him if he's alright, in which he replied "never felt better".
Suddenly, the three princes came crashing through the gate on their mount much to the joy of the citizens, but expresses their dismay when they see the state of Neptune's army. They turned their anger towards Hody and his crew. Neptune warns his sons to be careful of the beasts and the officers as they all have taken Energy Steroids. As the sea-beasts surround the princes, Fukaboshi yells at Hody Jones that he and his folk are the weakest on the island. He describes how the people of the island try to ignore their history of discrimination by humans, as well as endure the pain of losing Fisher Tiger and Queen Otohime to humans. That's why they signed their names for a better future and that Hody will never understand their kindness.
Hody, however scoffs at him, saying it's meaningless gesture and that its just human tricks. As the sea-beasts prepare to attack, the princes struck first taking out two sea-beasts each with their mount pitched in at defeating the sea-bear. The citizens were left in awe at the princes defeating the drug enhanced sea-beasts so easily. The princes then prepare to face Hody, reinforcing their will to prevent Hody from taking over the island and destroying the chance of peace their mother tried to achieve. Hody showed no relent and comments that the island will be ruled by the victors of this battle. As his officers each take a pill of Energy Steroids, the princes prepare to defend themselves from their unnatural strength.
The officers attacked quickly and without mercy dealing heavy injuries to the princes as well as their mount. In the end, the three princes were defeated, the King watched helplessly as his sons lie in pain and Hody laughing at his victory over the royal family.

Jinbe and Shirahoshi are on their way to the plaza and run into "Neptune" and Shirahoshi believes it to be her father and has Megalo rush over there despite Jinbe's protest and it reveals it to be a balloon and captures Jinbe, Shirahoshi and Megalo.
At the plaza, the royal family of Fukaboshi, Manboshi, Ryuboshi, and Neptune are all tied up and defeated by the officers of the New Fish-Man Pirates while the citizens are shocked they were defeated. The New Fish-Man pirates chanting for their deaths. However, Hody Jones refuses to admit victory until he receives news that Shirahoshi is dead. Just at that moment, Jinbe and Shirahoshi drop to the ground in the plaza and Hody which greatly pleases Hody with Jinbe commenting on Hody's new appearance. The citizens wonder why Jinbe's there thinking he was banished after he renounced his title and wonder if he saved the princess from Luffy. At that moment, Hody has all his lower subordinants invade the plaza revealing 70,000 Fish-Man pirates and 30,000 human slaves revealing the 100,000 members of the New Fish-Man Pirates. As they are rallying themselves, Hody tells the cowardly citizens to clear out of their homes for his crew since they are cowards in his opinion.
However, Shyarly comes to the plaza and tells Hody not to get carried away with himself stating her prediction about the island being destroyed. As Hody claims it's him, Shyarly states it will be Luffy. With the citizens backing her up stating her predictions are never wrong, Hody angrily attacks her with a water bullet. He tells her not to get arrogant with him, stating he's different from her older brother, Arlong, and the Arlong Pirates are nothing but an empty symbol to unite under and brags about his plan to conquer the island was set in motion ten years ago starting with the death of Queen Otohime which he reveals that he was the assassin, shocking everyone. Hody states he paid that pirate off to burn the box of signatures and he shot Otohime in the confusion and killed the human to fool the island. Neptune is enraged that Hody killed his wife but Hody shoots him with a water bullet. The citizens are shocked by Hody killing their queen realizing they were tricked by him and how they pointed their anger at the human for killing Otohime. Hody goes on taunting Shirahoshi about killing her mother claiming she was destined to die for his plan and how weak she was for wanting peace with humans and how she was nothing but a nuisance to the island and how he's proud to have killed her. However, Shirahoshi tearfully reveals that she already knew, shocking Hody and Neptune.
At the Fish-Man District, Vander Decken IX has placed his right hand on the ship Noah, causing the massive ship to lift up and fly towards Fish-Man Island. Decken shouts that he will destroy Fish-Man Island and Shirahoshi with it and says goodbye to the both of them.

Hody Jones asks Shirahoshi about the meaning behind her statement. Shirahoshi explains, saying that Megalo told her as Megalo witnessed everything that happened on that fateful day since he was part of Neptune's army. Jinbe comments that he is in disbelief and asks Shirahoshi why she kept it a secret but Shirahoshi interrupts before Jinbe could complete his question. Holding back tears, Shirahoshi says that it is not what her mother, Otohime would have wanted as citizens would hold a grudge against Hody afterwards. Shirahoshi recalls her last promise to her mother. The three princes question if Shirahoshi has been carrying this heavy burden on her shoulders while being all alone in the Hard Shell Tower.
Jinbe stares in disbelief and thinks to himself that it is incredible for Shirahoshi to accomplish such a feat as not many people would be able to do it. Hody laughs at this revelation, enraging Jinbe. Hody taunts Megalo, thanking him for  telling this only to this stupid girl (Shirahoshi), which allows the New Fish-Man Pirates to be where they are today. Hody then reprimands Shirahoshi for her short-sighted actions, stating that such actions are called "stupid" in this world, that her choice will be the reason behind the fall of the Ryugu Kingdom and the cause of extermination of the country as well her and her family's deaths. Jinbe comforts Shirahoshi and says that her actions are correct. However, Hody objects and says it was foolish of Shirahoshi. To prove his point, Hody uses Yabusame on the captured royal family. After a series of attacks, Neptune falls and his crown rolls on the floor.
The citizens look on in shock while the outlaws celebrates and laugh at the sight. Hody prepares to behead the captured royal family ahead of the appointed time as his concerns, Jinbe and Shirahoshi, poses no threat now. The outlaws cheer and encourages Hody. Some children are clinging onto hope, demanding that Shyarly predicts when the pirate with a straw hat will arrive to destroy the island. Shyarly slumps her shoulders and answers that she cannot be certain and it could be days or even years from now. The child cries and says that he wants them to create havoc now as it would also be troublesome for the New Fish-Man Pirates and the other children agrees. Other adults are also hoping for the arrival of the Straw Hat Pirates. As others look on helplessly, one shouts for Luffy, asking him to do his worst right now. This starts off a plead and chant by the citizens.
Hody wants to prove them wrong by executing Neptune. As Hody swings his sword, Shirahoshi shouts for Luffy to save her father. Hody stops when he is inches away from Neptune's head and turns to watch Megalo, who struggles for a few moment before spitting something out. Without warning Luffy swiftly kicks Hody, sending him flying backwards. The citizens stare in shock and surprise at Luffy's arrival. Jinbe comments that it is too early for Luffy to appear but accepts that there was no choice. Jinbe then calls out, asking the others to hurry up. Ikaros Much wonders who is Jinbe speaking to. Nami replies to Jinbe, saying that they were prepared long ago as things regarding Luffy do not always proceed according to plan. Nami is in plain sight as she drops her mirage, shocking Ikaros.
Nami had stole the letter from the Celestial Dragons and further reveals she had handed the key unlocking the chains that bind the Princes and Neptune to Robin. The Thousand Sunny is flying towards the plaza with Franky onboard. Franky fires the Gaon Cannon at the plaza, paving the way for Hoe. Jinbe asks the princes to make off with Neptune. Dosun tries to intervene but fails. As the ship lands, it is revealed that Luffy's crew and Pappag are onboard as well.
As Luffy walk towards his crew, the citizens throw many questions at them, questioning their motive and actions. Luffy calmly answers that the citizen have to judge for themselves if the Straw Hat Pirates are friends or foes.

Luffy asks Jinbe about his performance and Jinbe comments that it did not go exactly as planned and recalls the events that happened a few hours before at the Sea Forest.
For the sake of the citizens and their future, Jinbe wanted to portray Luffy as a hero while dealing with Hody Jones. However, Luffy rejected the idea, saying that he do not want to be a hero. Luffy asked if Jinbe knew what heroes are before defining heroes, saying that if there is a huge chunk of meat, pirates will simply have a banquet and consume it. However, heroes will share it among others and that is the reason Luffy do not want to become a hero as he wants all the meat for himself. Jinbe replied that he will get Luffy his meat if Luffy obeyed him, which Luffy readily agreed. Jinbe tells the crew about the plan he had in mind and it is revealed that Jinbe was caught voluntarily to provide a distraction, so as to let Nami steal the Celestial Dragon's letter and the key to the chains that is binding the royal family while Robin frees them. Jinbe will call out for help as a cue for Luffy to appear from Megalo's stomach because this will ensure that the citizens take notice of Jinbe and Luffy collaboration. The rest of the crew should head to Ryugu Kingdom to free their imprisoned comrades before assembling at the plaza. Shirahoshi is suppose to wait at a safe place outside the plaza and flee with her family afterwards. Jinbe asks about the reaction of the public and Hachi replies that almost every fish-man respects Jinbe and Camie says that if Jinbe trusts Luffy with his life while saving the Neptune, everyone will be on Luffy's side. Luffy is uncomfortable with the idea of people cheering him on and Nami agrees with him.
Pappag jumps into Luffy's arm at the plaza and complains that he has a few brushes with death due to Zoro and Usopp. The citizens are reacting as Jinbe has planned. Zeo tells Luffy not to push his luck as he is still a human pirate. Brook compliments Shirahoshi on her beauty and requests to see her panties, prompting Nami to smack him. Luffy comments that they are finally together again. Daruma tells Zeo that everyone is ignoring him but Zeo reasoned that it is because his voice was soft. Sanji claims credit for the rescue but Zoro says that they had gotten to the exit all on their own and Usopp agrees. Pappag says that they could not have done it without his help. Nami is surprised and Usopp explains that Brook became a ghost and Luffy is puzzled. Brook says that his new ability as helped them and recalls their escape. Brook chased Pappag for a long time before Pappag finally recognized him. Just as the water reaches the cage, Brook arrived with Pappag, who is carrying all of Zoro's sword. Zoro cut through the chains and cage while damaging the walls in the process. Water is receding from the gaps and into other rooms but Zoro continues, which made the water fill the room again as this time, it is the water from outside the palace. They swam out and the rescue crew made a timely appearance as they were running out of breathe.
Chopper wonders why the New Fish-Man Pirates are not worried despite their captain being beaten by Luffy and Robin agrees, commenting that it is odd. Nami hands Shirahoshi the letter and Shirahoshi thank her profusely as the letter is the hope that her mother, Otohime, had left behind. Luffy comments that it is not safe for Shirahoshi and calls her by a new nickname, Yowamushi. Jinbe agrees and says that this situation is not in the plan. Nami and Jinbe commend Shirahoshi for her actions and Shirahoshi apologies, saying that she has caused trouble. However, Jinbe brushes it off, telling her that it's fine and states that not passing hatred onto the next generation is what the brave heroes, Tiger and Otohime, was trying to teach them. Jinbe believes that if all citizens think the way Shirahoshi did, the conflict between Fish-Man and humans will be resolved.
Hody is standing and calls Vander Decken IX useless for failing to get rid of Shirahoshi. Zeo comments that the Energy Steroids are still working and Daruma says that it is to be expected as their captain has ingested a lot of them. Hody tells Jinbe that he should have noticed it when Jinbe allowed himself to be captured without resisting. Hody berates Jinbe, saying that, although Tiger and Arlong suffered at the hands of human, instead of seeking revenge for them, Jinbe works with them. Hody tells them that after he is king of the island, everything will change and he will capitalize on the opportunity during the World's Summit by killing all the human kings and begin a legend of the terrifying underwater kingdom. Hody shares his plans for capturing human as slaves and slowly taking over the world, even the world of pirates as Hody will become the king of pirates. Hody laughs at them, commenting on their size and saying that they will not be able to do anything as they are up against 100,000 enemies. The citizens worry for the Straw Hat Pirates as well as for their own future should Hody take over the island.
Hody gives the order to kill the Straw Hat Pirates. Chopper and Pappag panics and Robin comments that before they even fight, they might get squashed, frightening Usopp. Nami is gearing up to fight and encourages others. However, while saying this, Nami is hiding behind Zoro, Usopp, and Sanji. Sanji divides the numbers and says that each of them has to take 10,000 enemies. Zoro comments that even though they are outnumbered, the enemy is not necessarily stronger as it is not like they are up against elite Navy soldiers and tells Sanji not to shit himself. Sanji is irked and they begin arguing. Luffy pushes them apart and walks past them, towards the approaching enemies. Others are wondering at Luffy's action. Enemies are surrounding Luffy, preparing to kill him but Luffy unleashes a massive bout of Haoshoku Haki, knocking out around 50,000 opponent and shocking the New Fish-Man Pirates, and stunning almost everyone, who are wondering how Luffy manage to do that since Luffy did not appear to have done anything. Robin identifies Luffy's action and Jinbe comments on Luffy's progress. Sanji is not surprised and Zoro even expected it, saying that if Luffy cannot do that, then he needs to step down. Luffy slowly steps towards Hody and declares that there can only be one King of the Pirates.

The remaining fish-man pirates are shocked at the ease at which Luffy brought down many of their numbers. They begin retreating but Zeo asks them where they are going, saying that if they run away, they deserve death. Zeo states that even though they have lost 50,000, they are still 50,000 strong. Zeo continues by saying that the Straw Hat Pirates are their worst enemy and Jinbe is a betrayer. The outlaws are encouraged by Zeo's prep talk and regain their fighting spirit. Zoro tells Luffy that he wished Luffy had not reduced the numbers so drastically. Brook is all hyped up and wants to sing a song to start the battle but Robin bluntly states that they are not here to see him. The outlaw comments that the Straw Hat Pirates are not listening and Zeo's pride prevents him from acknowledging that and instead, he says that it is because they did not hear it. Hody Jones gives the command to kill them and the outlaws charge.
Luffy makes the first move with his Gear 3, Giant Pistol. Jinbe calmly says that they should join him and Zoro comments that Luffy did not wait for them again. Sanji says he has to do this for Shirahoshi's sake as men who cannot wipe tears away from woman's eyes are not real man and enters the fray, kicking the enemies down. Zoro uses 108 Pound Cannon, further reducing the numbers. A group of outlaws are standing in front of Robin and Robin says that there exist important resources that should not be destroyed on the island and uses Trienta Fleurs, Clutch on them. Another group approaches Brook and he begins dancing. Slowly, the group joins in, caught up in Brook's performance and Brook cuts them down in their moment of distraction. Chopper is caught but he transforms, uses Kung Fu Point and frees himself. Usopp shoots Pop Green, causing plants to sprout up all over the place. Someone sneaks up behind Usopp but he is struck by Nami's lighting. Franky wants to unveil two new weapons as this is the perfect opportunity, exciting Chopper and Usopp. Nami joins them as well as it might be safer on board Thousand Sunny. Shirahoshi is watching the events and says that they are all so amazing.
Hody challenges them to try and save the giant mermaid in the middle of the plaza and launches Water Shot. Luffy watches worriedly but Hody's attack is deflected. It is Jinbe's doing and Daruma is surprised that Jinbe is capable of this and calls him a monster. The outlaws are hesitant to attack but Hody says that there is nowhere else for them to run to. Zoro comments that the battle is boring and Zeo asks him not to speak before he encounters the formidable defense of the New Fish-Man Pirates, the Iron Shell Squad. Zoro recalls the events that he experienced previously and resolves that he will never lose again. Zoro uses Great Dragon Twister. It slices through the iron shells effortlessly and one outlaw compares it to looking like the Grim Reaper's scythe. The outlaws runs away, begging Zoro not to follow them but Zoro replies that he will chase them to Hell's end.
Daruma reminds the outlaws to use their brains and the outlaws launch an attack from the sky, making use of their bubbles to float. The Sea Urchin Spike Unit surrounds Sanji but Sanji appears unconcerned. Sanji recalls the days on Momoiro Island and the unit attacks, hurting themselves in the process due to their spikes. However, Sanji is unharmed and he is flying through the usage of his Sky Walk. Luffy recognizes that technique and Robin identifies it as the CP9's Geppo. Sanji halts the advancing group in the air and uses Diable Jambe Poela a Frire Spectre and kicks them all down. Luffy calls out to Hody and tells him to stay still as it will all be over soon and that it does not matter how many enemies there are because they will just defeat them all.

The fight has started. Luffy charges towards the enemies and punches them. Sanji and Zoro treat it as a competition between them, wanting to see who can defeat the most number of enemies, confusing Jinbe. A fish-man tries to attack Jinbe but is stopped by Robin, who comments that Jinbe should just ignore them as this is their normal behavior and Nami says that they have not changed one bit. Franky hops onto the Thousand Sunny and comments that everyone is getting warmed up. Franky announces that it is time for them, prompting Usopp and Chopper to ask about the new weapons excitedly. Franky asks them to follow him and Usopp and Chopper say that they have been anticipating this while running towards the ship. Nami asks them to wait up and Pappag follows hurriedly, not wanting to be left alone. Zoro and Sanji are running side by side, knocking down enemies while arguing. When a fish-man interrupts them, he gets beaten up by both Zoro and Sanji and flies towards Hody. The fish-man says that they are too strong, angering Hody, who states that he has no need for soldiers who are afraid of stupid humans, and throws him away. Hody gives the order for Shirahoshi to be killed.
In the Thousand Sunny, it is revealed that Franky has renovated the features by remodeling the Thousand Sunny Soldier Dock System's channel 0 to create 5 and 6. Chopper rushes Franky to show them the new weapons which are kept in channel 4 and Franky pulls up the shutter, revealing the weapons. Chopper and Usopp squeal that it is cool while Nami and Pappag are speechless. Dosun is commanding the Artillery Unit to aim for Shirahoshi but Brook comments that he does not like this and jumps in front of Shirahoshi, playing his party music. His music causes the Artillery Unit to hallucinate and see an amusement park. They dance and when Brook says to set off the fireworks, they use their weapons to shoot at the sky. Dosun stares at them, stunned, and Brook has already cut them using his technique, Quinto Tierce Fantasia. Another group charges towards Shirahoshi but is intercepted by Robin, who calls them brutes for ganging up on a weak woman. Robin uses Mil Fleurs, Gigantesco Mano, sprouting two gigantic legs which begin stomping on them. Usopp, Chopper, Nami and Pappag are cramped together in a small space and Chopper asks Franky how much longer do they have to wait. Franky presses his noses, combs his hair, wears his goggles and says that it's all set. Nami comments that she is getting excited.
Daruma commands the Deadly Venom Squad to go forward and poison Robin's legs. At this moment, Franky calls out for them to hold it. Franky uses Soldier Dock System Channel 4 and bursts out of the ship, riding on Kurosai FR-U IV. Luffy is totally won over by it, calling it a cybike. Franky charges towards the Deadly Venom Squad, defeating them. Another fish-man prepares to take on Franky with a spiked steel ball. The Soldier Dock System changes to channel 5 while the fish-man swings his weapon and Franky is clenching his teeth, sweating. Another vehicle with a cannon shoots right at the fish-man and Franky introduces it as the Channel 5, Brachio Tank V. Chopper is crying while saying that he is Commander Chopper. Chopper spots enemies and tells Usopp the direction and commands them to fire, having fun in the process. Luffy runs alongside the vehicle and tells the commander that he is so cool. Zoro looks on in annoyance and tells Luffy to fight. The citizens states that the Straw Hat Pirates are strong and begin to cheer them on again.
Hody calls the Kraken out angrily and tells it to crush them all. The citizens are panicking and running away from the Kraken's massive tentacles. Kraken jumps into the battlefield and attempts to flatten Brook. Chopper gives the command to retreat and Nami and Usopp show recognition at Kraken, surprising Pappag. Robin says that Kraken's presence is unexpected and Luffy acknowledges it, calling it Surume. Luffy recalls the events when Surume was his pet and friend for a short while. Luffy requests to ride on it again while Surume rears up and seemingly crushes Luffy. However, while everyone looks, Luffy laughs as Surume picks him up, saying that it tickles, shocking the New Fish-Man Pirates. Surume gives Luffy a ride and obeys his command. Luffy tells Surume to stay near Shirahoshi and to protect her. Jinbe is impressed and says that he cannot believe that Luffy knew the Kraken. Shirahoshi thanks Surume and it blushes. Luffy comments that there are still a lot of enemies and urges the others to go forward.

Daruma begins digging underground. Hyouzou is disorientated and Zeo reminds him that he is in Gyoncorde Plaza. Hyouzou notices Zoro and Brook and comments that the Straw Hat Pirates has good swordsmen before being on the move, killing his own subordinates in the process. The enemies run away at the sight of the Brachio Tank V and Chopper says that they should use this opportunity to attack their officers. Daruma appears right in front of them and Chopper commands Usopp to fire. As Usopp prepares to fire, Daruma leaps into the ground and disappears. They keep at this for a while as Nami looks on, bored. The vehicle rattles and tilts before tumbling into the ground, with Chopper realizing it is a sink hole. Daruma tells them that it is his special attack, Daruma Drop, as he had dug a web of tunnels underground just by using his fangs. Franky sees their predicament and rushes over. As Daruma prepares to create another sink hole to trap Franky, Franky speed past him on Kurosai FR-U IV and realizes too late that Chopper and Usopp had fell into a sink hole.
Franky kicks them out but Nami and Chopper is indignant at his actions. Franky explains that the machine is going to turn into a single-seater. Both vehicles undergo a transformation and Franky docks with it, becoming General Franky. Usopp, Chopper and Luffy marvels at his new look while Nami just stares at it. Franky executes some of his new move, taking down numerous enemies. Someone sneaks up behind Nami, calling her weak and brought his sword down, but Nami blocks it successfully with her weapon, Sorcery Clima-Tact, and uses Gust Sword to knock back her opponent. Since Usopp is now on the battlefield, he has to fight but he says that he is not afraid because he has changed and uses Pop Green, Bamboo Javelin on his enemies.
Daruma is making sink holes all over the plaza but senses that there is someone else digging. Daruma gets thrown out of the ground and the culprit is revealed to be Chopper, in his Horn Point. Luffy is amazed that Chopper can turn into a stag beetle now and Chopper corrects him and states that he has strengthen his transformation and now, only need the Rumble Ball for one transformation.
Hody calls out to the kraken and compliments it on gaining the Straw Hat Pirates' trust so easily and orders it to squeeze Shirahoshi to death. Hody reminds the kraken that he knows its brother's location in the North Pole and can travel there to kill him easily. Surume starts squeezing Shirahoshi but Luffy says that he understands how it feels, and tells it to let Luffy save its brother too because they are friends. While Luffy walks towards Hody, Dosun and Ikaros tells the others that they are not match for Luffy and to let them take care of him. As Dosun and Ikaros moves in to strike Luffy, Zoro and Sanji interfere, saying that they will not let them hinder Luffy. As the other fish-men charge towards Luffy, he uses Gear 2 and disappears, managing to bypass the fish-men and lands a kick on Hody, saying that he is full of fight.
While cheering them on, the citizens spot something that is approaching them. Neptune is shocked at the sight of it, and identifies it as the Ship of Promise, Noah.

The Noah approaches Fish-Man Island and Neptune is shocked by this and Fukaboshi tries to ask why he's so worried claiming the ship to be an old relic of history. However, Neptune says that's not true and that ship is not meant to move till the "Promised Day" comes.
At the plaza, the New Fish-Man Pirates are amazed at Hody Jones' new found strength and endurance and that Luffy was able to hurt him. Luffy comments that Hody is built like a tank. Hody asks Luffy if he knows what Fish-Man Karate is as he thrusts his palm forward. Luffy's head goes flying back, and the pirates think he is finished, but Luffy tells Hody it will not work on him since he is made of rubber and says Jinbe's level is much greater. Luffy then imbues his forehead with Busoshoku Haki. Before he can shoot back, the Iron Shell Division gets in front of Hody, shielding him from the attack. Luffy smashes into them, knocking them out using Gomu Gomu no Kane. Jones is about to attack Luffy with a backward roundhouse kick, but Luffy imbues Busoshoku Haki into his arm and stops Hody's kick, injuring Hody in the process. He then throws his legs over his head and delivers a devastating Haki-imbued kick to Hody's head. Hody attacks Luffy with Yabusame, but Luffy manages to dodge all of them using Kenbunshoku Haki. He then delivers a Haki-imbued punch to Hody's stomach, blasting him into the rock wall around the plaza. Everyone is amazed at Luffy's strength.
Suddenly, the plaza becomes dark. Noah has reached the island and is trying to break through the bubble. If the bubble bursts, then part of the island would be destroyed. Everyone panics, asking how Noah could possibly move. Everyone then sees someone falling from the sky. Wadatsumi crashes down, hitting his head. He then gets up and calls to Vander Decken IX to stop Noah, since his foot slipped and now he was in danger. The pirates ask if Hody is alright and if Noah was part of the plan. Hody gets annoyed, saying it wasn't part of the plan. Decken tells Wadatsumi that he cannot save him now, and he would have to be sacrificed for the cause, as whatever he throws cannot be stopped until it reaches the target. Just as everyone realizes the bubble will not hold, they also realize that Shirahoshi is missing. She then makes her presence known. She is high above the plaza and Jinbe realizes that at that height, she would redirect the ship away from the plaza. Shirahoshi spreads her arms and tells Decken to only take her life and not anyone else's. Everyone is humbled by her sacrifice. Hody realizes that Decken had planned on betraying them all along. Decken throws a knife at Shirahoshi which hits her just below the shoulder. Luffy is annoyed, since he had told Shirahoshi to stay close to him. Just then, people notice Hody has left and he is seen riding on one of the chains trailing from the gigantic ship. Sanji starts using Sky Walk to catch up with the ship, but Luffy tells him to stay at the plaza. Sanji then forewarns Luffy that the ship is sub-merged in water. Jinbe tells Luffy that even though the ship is full of water, Decken is a Devil Fruit user, so there must be air somewhere. He hands Luffy a piece of Bubbly Coral, Luffy grabs onto Sanji's leg, ready for launch.

Noah is going slightly away from the island, thanks to Shirahoshi's efforts. She realizes she has to get into the ocean or the bubble will burst. The main entrance is too far but she has an idea. As Hody Jones climbs the chain, the citizens try to think of something they can do for her. Meanwhile, Sanji is carefully calculating the force with which he must launch Luffy, and throws him with Armee de l'Air Rubber Shoot. He overshoots it slightly and Luffy goes out into the ocean but is close enough so he can grab onto the chain, remarking how huge it is. Luffy looks down and sees Hody below him. He then sees the citizens in the plaza grab the chain in an attempt to slow the enormous boat down. Shirahoshi is touched by their actions. However, Hody is annoyed at them, saying they will not slow it down at all, while Luffy vociferates loudly to stop. Hody attacks the citizens with Yabusame, and they all fall back to the plaza, much to Luffy's anger.
Shirahoshi sees the entrance to the palace and is relieved that it is still open. She goes up the connecting corridor and then breaks through it to go out into the ocean. As the ship rises, Luffy manages to put a protective bubble around himself at the last minute. Unfortunately he let go of the chain and drifted away from it slightly. Hody appears behind him, saying a human who cannot breath underwater can never rule the ocean and he attacks Luffy and pops his bubble stating how humans with Devil Fruit powers cannot do anything underwater and throws his trident to kill him only to be saved by Fukaboshi. Decken calls out to Shirahoshi. He asks if she will die from loss of blood or from getting hit by the ship first. He gives her one last chance. He will save her if she agrees to marry him as he throws knives at her. Shirahoshi apologizes and again tells him he is not her type, much to Decken's stunned surprise as the knives are deflected by something.
Ryuboshi, Manboshi, and Hoe are then seen standing in front of Shirahoshi. Her brothers say there is no way she will marry him and they will not let him hurt their only sister. Decken seems surprised that she called them brothers. Shirahoshi tells them about what happened in the plaza after they left. Ryuboshi then tells them what their father said about how the ship cannot be damaged and they have to land it on the ocean floor where it will not be scratched. Noah appears and crashes into the rocks behind them but they escape. Manboshi tells Shirahoshi to get to the trenches and not to swim too close to Noah. He then points upward, saying there is nothing to damage it at a higher level. Ryuboshi says they will take care of Decken.
Luffy is then seen riding on Fukaboshi's back. Luffy thanks him and asks if his wounds are ok. Hody is then seen removing a large scythe blade from a sheath, calling it Kirisame, he then puts it on his back and shoots himself at them, decapitating an oarfish that was near him. He continues to chase Luffy and Fukaboshi and cuts down more rocks down the ocean floor and the two manage to lose Hody. Luffy tells Fukaboshi to get him onto Noah's deck so he can fight more easily, saying he promised to protect Shirahoshi. Fukaboshi tells Luffy he and his brothers made the same promise, only they could not compete with Hody. He then apologizes for doubting Luffy. Before he can do anything, Hody shoots past them again, saying he would go to the deck first. Noah is now facing bow-up and is directly over Fish-Man Island. Hody reaches the deck and Decken makes small talk, asking how killing Neptune went and how he is torturing Shirahoshi. Hody tells him he has a good idea and Decken wants to hear it. At that moment, Hody suddenly impales him with his trident, asking him what would happen to the ship if he dies.

Hody pulls his trident out of Vander Decken reveals he touched Hody with his left hand at the last minute and throws an axe at him. Hody tells Decken he betrayed him first, but destroying the island was a great idea. If Decken were to die, the effects of his ability would disappear. Hody then suggests turning the ship around and dealing with the Straw Hats. Decken says he does not care about them, since he is going to kill Hody first. He then lashes out with a kick, revealing blades hidden in his shoes. Hody catches the leg with his teeth and bites down on it. He then swings Decken around and uses him as a shield to intercept the axe thrown earlier. Hody laughs and says he has to kill Shirahoshi before the ship crashes.
Ryuboshi and Manboshi see Decken defeated and realize Hody is coming after them. He somersaults past them, cutting them with the blade on his back in the process. Ryuboshi tells his sister to run. Before she can, Hody grabs her hair and stops her, saying even a mermaid cannot beat his speed. Luffy then attacks him with Gomu Gomu no Snake Shot, hitting him in the chest. Luffy pulls back his arm from his perch on Fukaboshi's back.
Back at Gyoncorde Plaza, Wadatsumi has lost the will to fight, crying that his captain abandoned him. Zeo makes up a lie and tells him that he did not hear Decken's orders to take care of the plaza for him. Zeo throws him an Energy Steroid and Wadatsumi starts his rampage, beating Surume and apologizing for doubting his captain. He then sets his sights on Jinbe. Jinbe blocks his fist with his Fish-Man Karate 7000 Brick Roundhouse Kick, stopping the attack with his foot and hurting Wadatsumi's hand in the process. As Wadatsumi falls, everyone around him is blown away as he falls, including Nami. This angers Sanji and he kicks Wadatsumi in the head, confusing him as to who is attacking him now. Sanji tells him he will pay for hurting Nami.
Elsewhere in the plaza, Hyouzou is drunk and starts eating more Energy Steroids while a Fish-Man named Nuru comments this is his chance to become an officer and attacks Zoro. Zoro says he's weak, but Nuru attacks him and tries to kill him and when he blinds him, Zoro dodges and cuts his lightbulb on his head and Zoro sends him flying. While this is going on, Hyouzou goes on a rampage and cuts down Nuru. His appearance changed after eating too many Energy Steroids (just like Hody did) and drinking at the same time. He takes down several people with Chidoriashi Hash. Hyouzou then sets his sights on Robin and charges at her. Zoro appears and blocks the attack (while also cutting Hyouzou's sword with his own), saying he will be taking on Hyouzou, calling him a good warmup for the New World.
Back underwater, Hody tells Luffy he has no chance of winning a fight in the deep sea, saying he cannot protect anything. Luffy says he spent the last two years training to do just that.

Wadatsumi is still under the effects of the Energy Steroid he took. Sanji is still mad at him for "touching Nami with his 'wind pressure'". Nami is seen emitting several dark colored balls in a string from her Clima-Tact. The pirates wonder if she is a witch, to which she replies they can call her Ms. Magician, but in reality her attack is carefully calculated chemistry. She then attacks everyone around her by swinging the staff, performing an attack called Black Ball: Raiun Rod. Zeo and Ikaros watch as Nami fights. Zeo remembers what Sanji said about her and realizes that Nami must be the crew's weakness. He turns invisible and grabs her ankles and Ikaros comes up to stab her with a spear. As Nami asks for help, Brook appears in front of her, asking to see her panties and takes two blows at once. One from Ikaros' spear, the other from Nami slapping him. The tip of the spear goes into Brook but nothing happens. Brook explains it is because he is already dried up, much to Ikaros's surprise. General Franky, trying to find a worthy opponent appears from behind Ikaros and delivers a heavy punch to his face, knocking him back. Ikaros is mad and says even though he's a squid he has a backbone.
Back with Nami and Brook, Zeo has become visible, and someone tells Brook he is standing on his face. Zeo's appearance explains to Nami why she could not move. Zeo tries to play it off like he tried to headbutt Brook's foot, with a move he calls Super Sole Head Butt. Elsewhere, Daruma is running rampant underground, causing everyone around him to fall into the hollow earth. Daruma is searching for Chopper. Meanwhile, Dosun sees Usopp standing all by himself, telling Chopper to come to where he is. As Dosun is about to attack Usopp, Chopper smells him and tells Usopp to duck, hitting Dosun in the chin with Horn Cannon Elf. Usopp shoots a Pop Green into the hole, using Hissatsu, Midori Boshi: Skull Exploding Grass. The resulting explosion injures a large group of the New Fish-Man Pirates and blasts Daruma out of the hole. Usopp recalls fighting with Miss Merry Christmas back in Arabasta, and how they used the same idea against her. At this point, the officers all decide to take more energy steroids. The spectators are surprised by how well the Straw Hats are fighting. Zoro is briefly seen fighting Hyouzou. Sanji is seen fighting Wadatsumi. Madame Shyarly is then seen looking nervously into the sky.
The scene changes to outside the island. Shirahoshi is still leading Noah away. Hody Jones tells Luffy he is too late to protect everything. Ryuboshi and Manboshi realize what would happen if Vander Decken IX were to die right now. Ryuboshi tells Shirahoshi to swim to one side, and Hody cuts him with Kirisame right after that. Hody says that he wanted Decken's ability to run out here. Luffy realizes what will happen if Noah falls, and tells Fukaboshi to take him to Shirahoshi. Hody stops them, but Manboshi shouts that Shirahoshi broke off to the right. As Hody swims toward her, Luffy grabs him, but due to the seawater, his strength is severely limited. Hody easily breaks away, shouting for Decken to drop dead. Noah has now moved slightly to the side of Fish-Man Island. Inside Noah, Decken is cursing Hody, saying his left hand will never forget him and prepares to throw an axe and try to kill Hody. He is about to say more, but he falls over, hitting his head on the axe and going unconscious. With Decken knocked out, Noah begins to fall back toward Fish-Man Island.

Hody Jones is rejoicing in Vander Decken IX's defeat and Noah falling toward the island. Fukaboshi says that everything they have done to protect Noah's mission which began centuries ago, would be finished if the ship crushed the island. There is then a short flashback to Neptune explaining that Noah is not just some old wrecked ship. Centuries ago, a promise was made with a "great man" to keep the ship on the floor and wait. They have to protect the ship until that day comes. Hody then asks Luffy if he really was serious when he said he would protect everything. He says he is and Luffy declares that he will smash the ship before it gets to the island. Fukaboshi tells Luffy it cannot be destroyed, and says they have to find Decken in case they can make him regain consciousness, saying they could save the island and the ship if they could redirect its course despite Luffy saying they may have no other choice but to destroy it. Shirahoshi calls out to Vander Decken IX, begging him to make the ship chase her again. Manboshi tells her to keep away. Hody uses Fish-Man Karate, Umidaiko to attack Shirahoshi, but Manboshi blocks it. Luffy then grabs Hody from above and draws himself close to Hody. Hody bites him in the shoulder, and Luffy punches him away, leaving his teeth lodged in the shoulder. Luffy mentions that his Busoshoku Haki is good for blunt attacks, but is not strong enough for his body to withstand piercing as he removes the teeth. Hody realizes that Luffy is really after the air in Noah and makes a large cut in the bubble.
The air bubble around Noah is beginning to deflate. Hody chides Luffy, saying that he is just a human and he could not possibly stop Noah, let alone defeat a fish-man like him. He continues to attack Luffy and just as he pops his bubble, Fukaboshi comes in and saves him while throwing him to Shirahoshi. Fukaboshi, while trying to hold the bubble together, asks Hody if he has any idea how many lives he is putting at stake. He then attacks Hody with Ultramarine, but Hody dodges at the last second and delivers a deep cut to Fukaboshi's side. Fukaboshi grabs him again, asking Hody what he is. He is driving the idea of vengeance against humans for oppressing fish-men, and yet he is taking out on Fish-Man Island. He had planned to take over and rule the island, but now he is trying to destroy it. Fukaboshi states that Hody hates humans more than anyone else, and asks what happened to him to make him hate humans so much. Hody tells him, but only his mouth is seen moving, and his answer horrifies Fukaboshi.
As Hody cuts Fukaboshi again, Shirahoshi is forced to swim away and then a voice comes out from a speaker, saying they are the person from the air tank from a Den Den Mushi Luffy has. The voice says he has heard about everything that has transpired and is ready to help, saying everything is ready. Several Ammo Knights appear, and Fukaboshi orders them to go to the air tank and ready the massive air blast that normally goes to the island. Fukaboshi gives Luffy a baby Den Den Mushi and Shirahoshi is seen carrying him in her hand. The plan is to make a big enough air bubble to envelop Noah. This will not make it float, though. Luffy says as long as there is air around Noah it will be fine. Hody attacks Shirahoshi and Luffy with Kirisame, causing her to let go of Luffy. Luffy manages to break off the scythe blade on Hody's fin, then punches him with haki. Hody swallows more Energy Steroids, gets revitalized and grows even larger with an enlarged mouth and declares he will get his revenge on humans no matter what. Noah is almost within range of the air tank. Fukaboshi then speaks to Luffy through the baby Den Den Mushi, saying he knows who Hody "really is".

Sanji and Jinbe continue to attack Wadatsumi and hurt him. Angry, Wadatsumi breathes in and expands his stomach, calling himself "Mega Monk", becoming even larger than before. Sanji asks if that had a point, saying the kraken is still bigger than him. This angers Wadatsumi and he expands even more, crushing everything within range. Sanji is still unimpressed, and Wadatsumi is about to expand again.
The Minister of the Left and some soldiers approach the place where Neptune is resting. The minister apologizes, saying they have let him down. Neptune mentions that if Noah hits the island, it would be just as it was written. The Minister of the Left tells Neptune about the evacuation and encourages the king to leave as well. Neptune says the orders are fine but he will stay and wait for the princes.
At Gyoncorde Plaza, the Minister of the Right and more troops are surveying the battle from the perimeter of the plaza, confused as to why there are so many pirates. Some bystanders get him up to speed about what happened before he arrived. The Minister of the Right orders the Neptune Army to back up the Straw Hat Pirates in the plaza, saying the country's honor would be shattered if they were backed up solely by a gang of pirates. The arrival of the army does not intimidate the New Fish-Man Pirates at all. Hammond then arrives, riding something he calls his slave tank, essentially a large rickshaw with cannons, pulled by human slaves. One of the slaves falls over exhausted and Hammond just says to leave him. Jinbe asks Robin to free the slaves, saying he cannot sit back and watch Hody copy the World Nobles. She frees the slaves and as Hammond attacks her, she was just a clone and grows two clones of herself and uses a Double Clutch and breaks Hammond's back. The human slaves state they owe her and revolt against the New Fish-Man Pirates.
As the battle rages on, the Minister of the Left receives a call on a baby Den Den Mushi from the border defense. The border defense informs the minister that Noah is once again on a collision course for the island. The Minister of the Left tells the person to tell the whole island, using the nationwide broadcast. They make the announcement and people start fleeing. Nami is shocked to see Noah coming back, and Jinbe wonders if Shirahoshi and Luffy are safe. The man from the Air Tank then talks to Luffy, and their conversation is picked up on other channels. Bits of a conversation between Luffy and Shirahoshi are heard. All over the island, people are surprised at what they are hearing. Luffy is attempting to do something to stop Noah. Then Fukaboshi's voice is heard through broadcast system. He tells Luffy what Hody Jones really is.
Fukaboshi tells Luffy, as well as the rest of the island, that Hody is a monster born from their environment. The New Fish-Man Pirates are a group that thrive on hatred and resentment. They hate in order to forget the pain of those who came before them. They also fear  that the anger and hate toward humans may one day fade away. There is then a flashback to when Fukaboshi asked Hody what happened to him to make him hate humans so much. The answer that Hody had only been seen mouthing earlier was a single word: "Nothing". Hody goes on to say that the fish-men were chosen by heaven to hand down judgment on humanity. Fukaboshi then says that the New Fish-Man Pirates' hatred lacks personal experience and will. They are just empty beings with no substance what so ever and their hatred is completely empty. Hody begins to laugh maniacally and with blood-shot eyes he charges at Luffy and Shirahoshi.

The whole island is in a panic as the evacuation continues and the impending arrival of Noah looms ever closer. People are confused by what Fukaboshi is saying about Hody. Outside the island, Hody is laughing hysterically as he chases Luffy and Shirahoshi, his muscles continuing to expand. Shirahoshi remarks he looks even scarier than before. Hody then has a flashback.
In the Fish-Man District, a fish-man is preaching in the street about how humans are an inferior species that is running rampant and threatening fish-menkind. A very young Hody Jones listens to this and seems to take it to heart. The scene changes to a fish-man talking about someone blowing up a slave shop on the surface. A memorial wreath is in front of a large picture of the fish-man in question. People are standing around it, saying that he died, but took eight humans with him and caused widespread disaster on the surface. Hody comments that it serves the humans right, and Ikaros Much praises the man, saying he wants to be a hero too and the future New Fish-Man Pirate officers all listen and take this to heart. The scene changes to another time in the Fish-Man District, where someone is saying Arlong sank a human pirate ship and has returned. Arlong is talking to Hody and the others about how fish-men were chosen by heaven to get rid of the trash that is humanity. The humans feared this, so they decided to persecute the fish-men. In the end the humans won because of their superior numbers. Hody continues to listen to this and becomes warped by it and must remember the hatred, resentment and the grudge against humans and takes this as his pride for life.
Later, Hatchan is telling Hody, Shyarly, and some other children about a human friend he has on the surface, Silvers Rayleigh, and speaking highly of him. Hody turns and leaves, saying Hatchan's story makes him want to vomit. A few years pass and some time with the incident with Tiger, someone is talking about the recent death of Fisher Tiger. Zeo comments that Tiger wasn't the chosen one either. At the late night, the New Fish-Man Pirate officers are then seen wearing black leather masks, leading a group of people holding torches. They approach a fish-man's home. The man had donated blood to a human, and that would not be tolerated. They burned his house to the ground and strangled the man in front of his family.
The scene changes to Hody, now a member of the army, talking to the officers. He was saying that everyone from the royal family on down has lost their minds and yielded to humans. Ikaros asks if Hody heard about Jinbe joining the Shichibukai. Dosun says that Arlong and his crew is the only true pirates left that hold the pride of Fish-Men. In the next scene, someone cries out that the main island is in a panic, saying that Otohime was assassinated by a human (not knowing that Hody was the one who actually committed the murder and framed the human for the crime). The Fish-Man in the Fish-Man District became angry at the royal family for not doing anything. Hody and the officers are then seen toasting beer saying the shameless have been judged and that it is the natural order for those who yield to humans to die. Hody then puts a bag on the table, saying heaven has given them power. The officers are shocked at what they see. Hody asks Zeo if he can mass produce them, and Zeo says he will try. They are next seen with the New Fish-Man Pirates jolly roger, saying they will dedicate their lives to killing humans.
The flashback ends. Hody tells Luffy he has given up his life this vengeance. In the air tank, the guards are taking aim at Noah through a crosshair. They fire the bubble. Fukaboshi is then seen realizing that he has failed. They have cast off the emotions of fish-men, exiling them to the Fish-Man District, ignoring the grudge that was slowly growing among them. They were focusing too much on progress. He then remembers his mother saying people should not pass on their hate to their children, but he realizes that has already happened. People must first fight within themselves. He then tearfully declares that Otohime was killed by Fish-Man Island's grudge. The regrets of the dead should stay with the dead and regrets how deep down he held resentment towards humans for killing his mother. A grudge is something people make to feed on others, and the grudge of the Fish-Man District has been fed by their hatred for humanity. By the time anyone noticed, it had grown too big to contain and states that the Fish-Man Island will be killed by the hatred of the island. He then tells Luffy that they do not need the past, and asks him to bring everything back to zero, to purge the old ghosts living in the shadows. He asks Luffy to bring the island back to zero. The guards in the air tank are celebrating, as the bubble has successfully surrounded Noah.
Hody tells Fukaboshi he can talk all he wants, but hatred is eternal. Luffy tells Fukaboshi through the baby Den Den Mushi to let him take care of this, and he can take a seat and relax. He tells Fukaboshi, as well as everyone on the island through the intercom, that from the moment they entered the plaza they decided they would not let anyone touch the island and to leave everything to them; adding that they are friends after all, which bring tears of happiness into Fukaboshi's eyes. The residents suddenly stop running. The Minister of the Right looks up and wonders if Luffy is the kind of human they doubted. Touched by Luffy's words, some of the residents decided to stay on the island until the end of the battle. Luffy tells Shirahoshi to stay by his side and he will not let her get hurt and prepares to end things with Hody once and for all and will not let anything happen to the island.
With the other Straw Hats, Ikaros Much is using a spitting attack on Franky, calling it The Wings of Ikaros. Franky punches him but it just goes through, as Ikaros reappears behind Franky saying that was his squid ink clone. Franky uses Franky Fireball and Ikaros narrowly dodges. Chopper and Dosun match each other with Heavy Gong and T-Shot, respectively, causing Zoro and Chopper joke about how he looks like a monster. Just then, Hyouzou comes at Zoro, saying he will chop up anyone who laughs. Zoro intercepts the attack and cuts off several of his swords' blades perfectly at the hilts, asking for the strongest swordsman on Fish-Man Island. He then states that the octopus merman could not even kill Zoro's boredom.

Brook continues to fight Zeo and strikes him with his sword due to the latter shouting his attack. However, he makes up a name called Body Sword Crush stating he broke the tip of his sword despite Brook stating he stabbed him. He manages to break Brook's neck off, however, as his head falls, he remembers tapping into the true powers of the Yomi Yomi no Mi during his training. He learned of a powerful energy that allows his soul to stay in this world, despite having died once already, and how he has gained control of his very soul. While Zeo is celebrating his victory, Brook remembers that it is the power of soul that is keeping him alive, and reattaches his head to his body while thinking this, stunning Zeo. Brook tells him that his attacks will not harm bone and brings out his new sword called Sword Solid and states it is a freezing sword he had made with his soul poured into it. Usopp continues to fight Daruma and lays traps for him while Daruma uses a move called Fireball Cutter and lunges at Usopp while on fire and Usopp dodges and shoots some Pop Greens despite Daruma believing they're duds.
Luffy prepares to end things with Hody and unleashes a new move called Red Hawk and the move devastates Hody and causes an explosion through his back which rockets him to the Noah and has Shirahoshi take him there stating it's not over yet.
The guards start to celebrate by telling the island of Hody's presumed defeat causing the lower members of the crew to panic and run away having lost the will to fight. Zeo suddenly stops them and attacks them with his chains. He throws his chain at another pirate who tried to argue. Zeo tells the pirates to die and let their deaths curse the humans. Their grudge will never fade as long as it gets passed on. The pirates think the officers have gone crazy. Dosun comes down with his hammer on one of the pirates, saying they are only crazy because the humans made them that way. The children wonder if humans are really that bad and Shyarly tells them not to think that and judge what they think of humans with their own eyes. Brook stops Zeo from attacking his men and states he cannot stand people like him and he should not talk about dying as if it is that easy since nothing is left behind when he dies. Brook places his faith in Luffy and knows nothing will happen to the island and everything will be fine and prepares to end things with Zeo. Franky prepares to end things with Ikaros Much, Sanji and Jinbe prepare to end things with Wadatsumi now that he is large enough now and Zoro walks away from Hyouzou since he is bored with him while Hyouzou seems to prepare some poison. Usopp tells Daruma he will finish him in three moves and Daruma says he is lying, and Usopp admits that he used to lie a lot, but adds that he cannot do that anymore, as he now has it within himself to back up his claims. At that moment, the both of them are then shocked to see Chopper in his Monster Point, only for Chopper to reveal he is in full control now.
At the Noah, Hody is recovering, but is seriously injured by the Red Hawk attack and as Luffy makes his way to the ship, Hody attempts to force in more Energy Steroids, despite his wounds being too serious he ends up puking some out and just forces them to stay in his mouth as Luffy prepares to end things with the New Fish-Man Pirates captain.

On the Noah, Hody takes more Energy Steroids and recovers. As Luffy comments on Hody's toughness, the bite wound Hody gave him is affecting him and Hody tells Luffy that he knows his fangs did more damage than Luffy is letting on. Hody charges at Luffy only for Luffy to use a Gear 2 punch which Hody dodges at bliding speed due to consuming more pills. Hody grabs Luffy's arms and knees him back to the ship. Shirahoshi is worried and Luffy retorts with a Jet Bazooka only for Hody to take it unaffected and bite Luffy again in the same spot. Luffy uses Red Hawk to force Hody to let him go and sends Hody back with not as much damage due to the pills, prompting Fukaboshi to comment on how much of a monster Hody has become. The Ammo Knights announce Luffy is still fighting. As everyone hears this and worry about the Noah, Shyarly looks up at the sky nervously, remembering her vision. Zeo berates Brook claiming that Hody would never lose to a mere human since Hody is invincible, but Brook replies by saying he has faith in his captain and that Luffy will save everyone.
Usopp is shocked that Chopper can control his transformation. Chopper explains that by eating a single Rumble Ball, he can fight in this form for three minutes. Usopp says that this form is now an asset, which causes Chopper to act embarrassed in his transformed state - an action which Usopp says is creepy. Dosun tells Chopper he will still knock him into the ocean no matter how big he gets. Daruma gets mad that Usopp would be so rude as to stop in the middle of their fight to talk to someone else. The scene changes to Franky and Ikaros Much. Ikaros reveals that he has a spear on his head that can pierce anything. He then uses Light Strike Usubon no Yari, preparing to attack. Franky tells Ikaros that he should just give up as his attacks will be useless. Elsewhere, Zoro walks away from Hyouzou, saying he cannot cut anyone who has no fighting spirit, calling him a frog. Hyouzou grins and then lunges at Zoro with eight new swords. Meanwhile, Sanji is still standing on Wadatsumi's face, and the giant fish-man tells him that if he were to roll into the plaza right now, every one of Sanji's friends would be crushed. Jinbe appears to be getting ready to attack as the scene switches over to Luffy and Hody. Luffy says that he will end this as Hody attacks with Hody Jones uses Fish-Man Jiu-Jitsu Water Heart Shark Pack. Luffy yells at Shirahoshi to get back. Hody launches large amounts of water in the shape of sharks at Luffy, but he dodges. However, a few hit Luffy and as he's sent down towards the ship, Hody starts thinking that he's won, only for Luffy to use Gear 3 and Elephant Gun. Hody counters with Shark Pack and Luffy's fist goes through, finally defeating Hody. Hody's last conscious thought is for Noah to crash into the island and kill all the fish-man who've lost their pride. Luffy then uses Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gatling, pulverizing the bridge section of Noah while Shirahoshi starts worrying over Luffy as his wound opens up.
Back in the plaza, Brook continues to fight Zeo as Zeo has drawn a circle around himself and tells Brook he will be crushed to bits if he enters it. Zeo then hears humming behind him and Brook appears, asking to be excused as he has already entered the circle and cut him. Before Zeo can do anything, Brook's cut takes effect as he unleashes a new move called Song of Scratches - Blizzard Slice. A single cut now runs from Zeo's waist to the top of his head with the afflicted area apparently having been frozen. Brook then says that cut is the first line and even blood freezes in the winds of Hell. He also says he hopes that the wind lifts up some skirts, too. The scene goes back to Usopp and Daruma. As Daruma flies at Usopp, several flowers come out of the ground and move towards him. Usopp explains that they are called Humandrakes, and they hide in the ground and attack anyone heard above them. The flowers beat Daruma to the ground, but he somehow gets thrown into the air away from them. Usopp reveals another plant, Trampoilia, a large flower that launches anything that gets near it. Usopp tells Daruma there is nowhere left for him to run and he is completely exposed. Usopp has launched a Pop Green that takes the shape of a giant wolf. Daruma says he will just bite through it. Usopp tells him that would be a bad idea since the bulb on the tip of its nose emits a very powerful shockwave that has a three meter diameter. Daruma is then hit with the shockwave known as Impact Wolf. In the Dosun and Chopper fight, Dosun swings his hammer around, getting ready to launch Chopper into the sea with Papara Hammer. Chopper then uses Carving Holf-Palme. The attack shatters Dosun's hammer and sends him flying, much to the shock of the pirates watching. Ikaros gets ready to launch his piercing attack. Franky then cups his hands one over the other in a similar pose to Coup De Vent, and launches the Franky Radical Beam. Usopp and Chopper watch it with stars in their eyes, while Nami and Robin stare at it seemingly unimpressed. Ikaros comes out of the attack completely blackened and defeated.
Jinbe prepares to use a Fish-Man Karate technique by surrounding his right hand in water. He then hits Wadatsumi with Vegabond Drill. The attack enters on one side of Wadatsumi and explodes out of the other side. Wadatsumi begins rolling away, but as he cannot hold his breath any longer, the air he took in is released and he blasts himself away. Sanji is ready for this, and follows Wadatsumi into the sky. Sanji then takes a moment to prepare by thinking back to the torture he had to go through the last two years, before catching completely on fire. He then kicks Wadatsumi in the stomach with Hell Memories, a fire-attack so powerful it completely chars Wadatsumi. As Wadatsumi falls back to the ground, Sanji says that when preparing blowfish, one must take care to remove the poisonous parts. Finally, Hyouzou attacks Zoro with swords dripping with poison. As he leaps at Zoro, he tells him that he is Fish-Man Island's number one Hachitoryu user and Zoro should not forget that. Zoro slices through him using Rengoku Onigiri, saying he was sorry but he mistook Hyouzou for a "frog at the bottom of a well" - a Japanese proverb for someone ignorant of the real world.
On the Noah, Luffy has sent Hody out of the ship unconscious as the guards announce Hody's defeat and Luffy attempting to destroy the Noah to save the island. With that, Hody and his officers have all been defeated.

The residents are amazed that the Straw Hat Pirates were able to defeat all the top members of the New Fish-Man Pirates. Everyone then runs out of the way as Wadatsumi falls from the sky. Back on the ground Jinbe is not surprised by the results of the Straw Hat Pirates' strength. Meanwhile, Sanji and Zoro get into an argument, Chopper and Usopp admire Sanji and Franky respectively, but Franky feels inferior to Chopper's Monster Point form, Robin chastises Franky's Franky Shogun stating it was useless, and Brook asks Nami to put on a miniskirt, much to her annoyance. All the citizens are starting to relax until they remember Noah is about to crash down on them.
They beg Luffy to do something and save them. Luffy uses Elephant Gatling and begins to smash Noah as fast as he can. The citizens stand their ground and put their trust in Luffy. While Luffy is destroying the ship, a citizen recalls how Luffy reminded one fish-man of when he was a child and Whitebeard befriended Neptune and declared the island his territory. There is then a flashback to when Whitebeard first appeared and declared the island under his control. The man is asked if he really believes that Luffy is like Whitebeard. The man said he hates humans but does not know what to think since a human is now defending the country. Shyarly looks up at the sky nervously, remembering her prediction of a man in a straw hat will bring destruction to Fish-Man Island. Fukaboshi and Neptune are sorry to have to destroy the ship, but lives must come first and Neptune apologizes to Joy Boy. As Luffy continues his barrage on the ship, Shirahoshi begs him to stop and blocks him. Luffy says the island will be destroyed if she does not get out of the way, but she tells him the ship has already stopped as they become surrounded by Sea Kings holding the chains from Noah in their mouths, much to Luffy's shock.
At this point, Luffy's wounds begin to open up, but he says it is okay as long as the ship stopped and everyone is safe. He then faints and falls back down to Noah. The Sea Kings begin to talk about how amazing Luffy was and if they came only a bit later Fish-Man Island would have been saved, but Noah would have been destroyed. Shirahoshi says she did not do anything to call them there and the Sea Kings tell her that they were guided there by her strong feelings to help Luffy.
The royal guards tell everyone on Fish-Man Island that the Sea Kings stopped the ship before it could be completely destroyed and that Fish-Man Island is saved. Luffy lands on Noah, having passed out from exhaustion and everyone begins to celebrate.

After the Sea Kings stop Noah, it is revealed by them that Shirahoshi is actually their queen ever since she was born. At the same time, the royal guards report the current situation to the Minister of the Left, and Neptune states that the power to destroy the world has finally awakened. The three princes get ready to capture Hody Jones and Vander Decken IX. While the sea kings are taking the Noah away from Fish-Man Island, they talk about how Luffy could hear their voices, comparing him to the late Pirate King, Gol D. Roger. As they relocate the Noah to the Sea Forest, they leave wondering if the Noah can be fixed by the "appointed time".
Meanwhile, at the royal palace, the kidnapped mermaids are found, however they've been traded for the entire contents of the treasure chamber, including the national treasure - the Tamate box. Nonetheless, Neptune disregards this information, saying that they nearly lost the whole nation just now, and that they need to clear the Straw Hats' names because they have been wrongly accused.
Down on the battlefield, the humans and New Fish-Man Pirates are stopped by Jinbe while they try to get away. As they plan on escaping him with their bubbles, Jinbe shoots a water shot, stating that he will attack anyone who tries to escape.        
The Minister of the Left proclaims that they take full responsibility for making a mistake with their fact-checking process. As the merfolk exclaim that they never suspected the Straw Hats anyways, they are ashamed when the kids point out that they blamed and didn't trust them the whole time because they were humans. The three princes return from the outside with a battered Hody Jones and Vander Decken IX, and announce that they won't allow them to cause any trouble again.
Whilst the merfolk are celebrating, they are interrupted by a crying Shirahoshi, sobbing about Luffy's injuries and how his bleeding won't stop. Chopper announces that Luffy needs a transfusion, but the merfolk are reluctant to donate blood as it is against the law to give blood to a human. Jinbe steps up, offering his own blood, since he is a pirate and does not need to obey the laws.        
As the blood is flowing through the tube, there are flashbacks from the last moments of Fisher Tiger, Otohime and Whitebeard, three important figures that nearly succeeded in bringing peace between humans and merfolk. When the blood finally reaches Luffy, he smiles, and while everyone is rejoicing at the fact that he's alive, he invites Jinbe to join his crew.

The royal family have made a decision to release the human slaves that were under Hody's control as they were only on this island for resting and traveling like other pirates. The rest of the New Fish-Man Pirates have also been released however they cannot go back to the Fish-Man District. They are ordered to live on the main island working for the king, under the supervision of the Neptune army stating they will not let the Fish-Man District get out of control again. From this day forward, the Fish-Man District will be sealed off and nobody will be allowed to enter. Neptune then asks Fukaboshi where Luffy is and he says Luffy ran away with the others.
The scene changes to the Straw Hats, who are flying above the island on the Thousand Sunny, still toting its bubble balloon. Shirahoshi is following along side the ship, and asks why they left in such a hurry. Zoro is mad at himself for fighting in that big of an open area. He tells Shirahoshi if they had stayed any longer, the people would have lifted them up like heroes, shivering at the thought. Zoro tells Shirahoshi that heroes have to share their alcohol, something which he does not want to do. Nami is appalled to hear Zoro reciting the same reason Luffy told Jinbe. Looking over her shoulder, Nami sees Luffy trying to convince Jinbe to join the crew. Jinbe replies that he cannot join, but is very happy to be asked. He tells them that he has some business that he has been putting off for a long time. After he has taken care of it, he promises he will come back to them and asked them to promise to invite him again, should they still see him fit to join. Sanji tells Luffy not to back Jinbe into a corner. Robin remarks that he has taken a liking to the crew. And Franky remarks that of course they would wait for a man who captivated Luffy as much as Jinbe did. Zoro then asks if they should head to the New World now. Shirahoshi is upset by their departure and asks them to stay so she can thank them all. Sanji uses this opportunity to propose staying at the Mermaid Cafe for a whole week. Usopp slaps him, saying there is only one reason Sanji would go there, but he does agree with him.
An Ammo Knight calls out to them, and then informs Neptune via baby Den Den Mushi that they caught up to the Straw Hats' ship. Through the Den Den Mushi, Neptune tells Luffy he wants to pick up where he left off with the banquet he initially promised. Luffy agrees, and tells Neptune he will get Hatchan and Camie as well.
The scene changes briefly to the Fish-Man District, where all the buildings have been wrapped in yellow tape. It then goes to Ryugu Palace, where Hody, his officers, and Vander Decken IX are all in a prison cell, still unconscious. At the main entrance to the island, guards are telling Surume to carry Wadatsumi to the far ends of the earth, telling the giant fish-man that they do not have a cell that can hold him, and that he is banished from the island. In Coral Hill, people are preparing food to bring to the palace banquet. They are carrying large racks of Sea King meat, boxes of seaweed cakes and other sweets, and alcohol by the cartload, enough to bathe in, as one fish-man put it.
At the palace, the Straw Hats and their guests are being carried on two large flounders to the banquet hall, a completely inundated room, which makes some of the Straw Hats nervous. Below them on the floor packed with soldiers, guards cheer and say the heroes have arrived. Luffy tells not to call them heroes as he is going to eat all the meat. Shirahoshi points out a stage in the front of the room to Luffy, and they notice someone standing on it. The woman on stage is introduced as Maria Napole, a singer called the diva of the ocean floor and the pride of the island. Maria Napole begins to sing, and her voice completely entrances Nami and Usopp, who feel as if they could melt from hearing it. Brook gets excited, as he notices Maria Napole's accompaniment, a jazz quintet. The music starts up, and then it is Sanji's turn to be in awe, as the Mermaid Cafe dancers are introduced. More mermaids come in carrying trays of food that they take to the Straw Hats and the rest of the people in attendance. Everyone is singing, dancing, cheering, and enjoying the festivities. Pappag is dancing with the Medaka Mermaid Quintuplets. Luffy and Jinbe are eating and laughing with two other mermaids. Zoro, Franky, and Hatchan toast gourds of alcohol. Sanji turns to stone in the arms of two mermaids, while another one grabs Brook and starts kissing him on the cheek. Luffy is then seen having a toast with Usopp, Neptune, Shirahoshi, Camie, Jinbe, and the Minister of the Right. All the soldiers raise their glasses high. Robin is seen laughing and drinking with the Minister of the Left. Brook is playing his guitar on stage with Maria Napole. Nami is seen celebrating her victory against Fukaboshi in a drinking contest, while Ryuboshi and Manboshi dance together.
Robin is then seen standing just outside the banquet hall, when Neptune, a bit tipsy from drinking, stumbles out. He asks Robin what she wanted to talk to him about. Robin apologizes, saying she thought they would be able to be alone. Neptune, thinking she was coming on to him, starts telling Robin he could never betray the love he has for his wife, dead though she may be. Before he can go on, Robin cuts him off, asking who Joy Boy is. Neptune drops his gourd in surprise. Robin goes on to tell him that she read the poneglyph in the Sea Forest, and then asks Neptune who he was and what he was apologizing for. Neptune, instantly sobering up, is surprised Robin can read poneglyphs. Robin explains she is from Ohara and Neptune does not have to tell her anything he does not want to. Neptune says he will tell her what he knows stating he knows he can trust her.
Neptune explains that Joy Boy was a person from the surface who lived during the Void Century. His message was for the Mermaid Princess living on the island at that time. It is an apology for breaking his side of a promise he made with the island. Neptune tells her he does not know the details of the promise, only that some day someone is supposed to come and carry out the promise made by Joy Boy. He explains it is a legend passed down in the royal family. Neptune says that their promise to Joy Boy was to watch Noah and keep it safe. Only when the promised time comes will Noah's purpose be known. Robin tells Neptune that she heard that Noah, after the events in and above Gyoncorde Plaza, was carried to the Sea Forest by Sea Kings. Robin asks Neptune if Joy Boy could control Sea Kings. Neptune tells her that ability belongs to the Mermaid Princess from then and now. Robin then concludes that Shirahoshi has the ability, confirming her theory. Neptune says she is right, and today that ability was fully awakened, which is not a good thing. Robin agrees. She then tells Neptune about the Poneglyph she read while in Skypiea two years ago. It gave the location of one of the ancient weapons, and said it was located on Fish-Man Island. She then asks Neptune if the Mermaid Princess from Joy Boy's time went by another name. Neptune starts to understand and begins to become fearful of what he's about to listen to. Robin tells him that Shirahoshi, by having the same ability, also inherited the same name as that princess. Her other name is the ancient weapon, Poseidon.

Robin and Neptune continue their conversation, and Robin mentions that there are three ancient weapons: Pluton, Uranus, and Poseidon. Neptune then warns her not to tell anyone about Shirahoshi in fear that the government and pirates would hunt her. However, Caribou is eavesdropping on their conversation and goes to kidnap Shirahoshi. Meanwhile, Jinbe tells Luffy and the Straw Hat Pirates about the major events that took place during the timeskip. The first is Aokiji and Akainu's duel to decide who will become the new fleet admiral, which Akainu won after ten days of fighting. As a result, Aokiji left the Marines. The second is Blackbeard, who conquered all the Whitebeard Pirates' territory and claimed the seat of Emperor in the process he also began his hunt of Devil Fruit users to obtain their powers. Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji then leave the conversation to check on Shirahoshi.
The trio find Caribou in the process of kidnapping Shirahoshi and Luffy proceeds to kick him from the tower. After hearing from Neptune that Caribou stole the treasure, he tells Nami that he will give it to them as a reward for saving his country if they can get it back. After Nami finds out that Luffy had kicked Caribou out of the tower, she sends Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji after him so she can have the treasure.
Neptune is then told by one of his soldiers that something has happened to Hody and his crew. When he reaches their prison cell, he finds Hody Jones and the New Fish-Man Pirates have become very old and are planning on taking their revenge against the Straw Hats. The Minister of the Right deduces that the Energy Steroids, which came from inside the Tamatebako (national treasure of Fish-Man Island), are the cause and Hody confesses that he stole them. Neptune then tells them to forget about their intention of seeking revenge against humans considering the state that they are in and says he will have to re-think their punishment.
Meanwhile, a soldier comes to the Minister of the Left, reporting that two of Big Mom's men have come to the island to collect her monthly candy payment. Unfortunately, because the candy factory was destroyed by the New Fish-Man Pirates and the remaining sweets were sent to the party, there is not enough candy for Big Mom this month. The Minister of the Left is then worried about Big Mom's reaction, saying that she is "a monster who would destroy a country for the sake of sweets".

After the banquet ends, the Straw Hats are excited to hear they will be allowed to keep all of the stolen treasure. Franky says it will make them tycoon pirates in no time. When Chopper suggests searching for Caribou along with Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji, Usopp tells him he just learned that Caribou is worth over 200,000,000. On the island, the group finds Caribou, and Zoro is disappointed that Luffy's punch was all that was needed to defeat him. The three of them are excited to see how much treasure spilled out of Caribou's body. They load it into bags and Luffy asks Zoro which way the town was, prompting Sanji to decide to go the other way. Luffy tells them they need a flying fish.
The scene changes to the Candy Factory, where the Minister of the Left is discussing their problem with the monthly candy payment with a figure off-screen. The man, a lion named Pekoms, reminds the minister that the deal was that they would make candy for Big Mom and in return the island would not be destroyed. He then asks if the Minister knew what kind of person Big Mom is, saying anyone who angers her is doomed. The group of people gathered off to one side all think to themselves how cute Pekoms looks when he is threatening. At the same time, Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji walk by and notice the crowd. They go over and Luffy says greets everyone there. Luffy mentions that the best part of the banquet was the sweets made at the factory. As the crowd tries to tell Luffy to be quiet, Pekoms asks who they are. He flips through a book and recognizes Luffy and asks him what he meant when he was talking about sweets. Luffy tells him he had just eaten a lot of them at the banquet. This causes Pekoms to become angry toward the Minister of the Left, who tries to tell him there is an explanation as Luffy realizes that the lion can talk. Another figure then tells Pekoms that threatening people left and right will not accomplish anything and that they need to ship the candy out by tomorrow in order to have it arrive in time for the Tea Party in four days. The man, a longleg wearing an eggshell and using a teacup and saucer for a hat, introduces himself as Tamago.
As Tamago stands up, he asks them if they ate the candy that was made at the factory, Zoro thinks he is a compass, and Luffy tells him that they did eat it and would like more. Tamago then explains that the island belongs to one of the Four Emperors, Charlotte Linlin, and the flag on the factory shows the island is under her protection. Luffy concludes from this that she is a good person and says he wants to meet her. Tamago tells him it is strictly business. The island gives her ten tons of candy a month and she gives them her flag, adding that Linlin loves candy more than anything. Tamago explains that the candy from Fish-Man Island is one of his captain's favorites and they can wait until tomorrow to collect the candy. The Minister of the Left explains again that the cooking equipment in the factory was destroyed and they will need two weeks to get everything up and running again, which the baron tells him is unacceptable. Sanji then gets indignant and asks why he cannot just wait. Zoro adds that despite being an emperor, their captain does not have a lot of balls. Tamago clarifies that Big Mom is a woman, and therefore had no balls to begin with. Sanji, while imagining with no degree of accuracy what the woman looks like, asks what would happen if the sweets are late. Tamago replies that the treaty would be dissolved and the Big Mom Pirates would destroy the island. Luffy is furious that someone would destroy an island over candy, especially since he and his crew just saved it.
The scene changes to the New World, to a place called Whole Cake Island where someone remarks that Big Mom seems excited. She replies that she is looking forward to the tea party that takes place in a few days and is looking forward to the candy from Fish-Man Island. She then asks the person if he is excited, to which they say yes. Big Mom then tells him to continue his excitement in her stomach, and promptly eats him. A three-eyed girl sits uncomfortably in a chair as Big Mom chews. A subordinate, Bobbin, comes in, and Big Mom asks him how the operation went. She is happy when Bobbin tells her the whole thing went up in flames, saying the baked sweets from that country were the best and it must have smelled delicious since it was burned to the ground. Bobbin asks if she has any snacks as Big Mom goes on to say that anyone who does not give her sweets must be killed, and that she likes dishonesty as much as she likes bad candy. Bobbin then remembers to tell her that Fish-Man Island might not be able to come up with their payment for the month. The shot changes to show an enormous woman leaning forward in a chair, surprised at what Bobbin just said. Bobbin explains that he just received a call from Pekoms and asks her if they should torch that island as well. Big Mom then orders a call be placed through to the island at once.
As Luffy voices his anger over destroying an entire island for candy, a Den Den Mushi rings. Pekoms realizes it must be their captain, since he just reported the situation. Everyone nearby, including Pekoms and Tamago, are afraid to find out who is making the call. So Luffy answers it. Luffy asks if he is speaking to Big Mom. The voice on the other end is confused, since she does not recognize Luffy's voice as belonging to one of her subordinates. Luffy introduces himself and declares he will be Pirate King. Linlin recognizes his name and remembers he is Garp's grandson as well as his involvement in the war two years ago. Luffy tells her there is no more candy. He then goes on to say that he was the one who ate it all. Charlotte realizes Luffy is trying to cover for the island by placing the blame solely on himself. Luffy tells her he has a bunch of treasure and he will give her all of it in exchange for the candy. Big Mom asks how he expects her to eat treasure.
Tamago then gets an idea and asks Luffy if all of the offered treasure was in the three bags. He then takes the receiver and asks his captain to calm down. He then tells her that two days ago, Kid sank two of their ships. They suffered heavy damages and aren't exactly well off financially. He suggests she take the treasure as collateral and allow the island another two weeks to rebuild and make more candy. Big Mom is furious that Tamago would suggest such a compromise. She then adds that she is now interested in the guy who is taking a stand against her and as he wishes, she will change the target from Fish-Man Island to him. Luffy tells her he has to get even with her adding that it is too dangerous to leave her in charge of the island. Luffy then declares that he will beat her and make Fish-Man Island his territory, much to the irritation of Big Mom.

At the palace, the rest of the crew (except Franky) are having tea with the Minister of the Right who states his gratitude towards the crew for saving the island and that they don't need to be so modest about themselves as he's glad to serve them tea. As Usopp states how they are ready to leave the island, Shirahoshi starts crying not wanting them to leave stating she doesn't want to hear that and calls him "nose-sama" and Usopp corrects her and tries to apologize. The minister then gets a list of all the treasure and notices that the Tamatebako was stolen and becomes horrified by this information.
Outside the Candy Factory, Caribou has woken up and realizes all the treasure he stole is gone and swears he'll get it back somehow.
While the soldiers fix up the palace, Jinbe and Neptune are talking in Ryugu Palace. Neptune asks how the Sun Pirates are doing under Big Mom's jurisdiction. Jinbe says that she is not the most reasonable boss but they have been free to do what they want. Neptune comments how it must be hard for Jinbe to take orders from someone who wasn't Fisher Tiger. Jinbe replies that he is not picky about who his boss is and that it is a good strategy to serve an Emperor to ensure his crew's safety. Neptune is surprised since he thought Jinbe did it for the sake of Fish-Man Island because thanks to Jinbe, the island was kept safe under Big Mom's name. Jinbe remarks that it is just a coincidence and that he and his crew should be protecting the island, but cannot since they are wanted pirates. Jinbe then announces that he will cut off ties with Big Mom. Neptune concludes that this is because Jinbe wants to join the Straw Hat Pirates. Jinbe says it is and adds that verbal contracts are a lot harder to get out of than written agreements and that there is a chance Big Mom will direct her anger at the island. Neptune tells him he is taking too much responsibility, adding that the army just gained another seventy thousand soldiers from the Fish-Man District and he has found another flag he wants to borrow: the Straw Hats', an idea which Jinbe likes.
The Minister of the Right comes in out of breath, saying he remembered something important about the treasure given to the Straw Hats. They must return the Tamatebako. There is a bomb in it and it is rigged to explode upon opening. The minister did this after it was stolen ten years ago as a safety precaution. Neptune agrees that they will ask them to return it. A guard enters and announces the Straw Hats have returned. Nami, Neptune, and the Minister of the Right are then shocked to hear that Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji gave the treasure to Big Mom. Luffy tells them she was going to destroy the island, that she is crazy, and that he would fight her, horrifying everyone except Shirahoshi who comments on his bravery and cries because Usopp yelled at her and Robin who just giggles. Jinbe realizes that now he must leave Big Mom before things get even worse. He suggests that the Straw Hats must not irritate her more than they have. The Minister of the Right whispers to Neptune that Big Mom might take the bomb as an act of war. Nami then sympathizes with Luffy, saying he stood his ground the way any man would. She then hits Luffy, Zoro and Sanji for giving away all of the treasure. Luffy then declares they should go to the New World. As that happens, the crew prepares themselves and all head towards the ship with Franky on it followed by the royal family.
At the Candy Factory, Caribou says that if he brings back the princess and the treasure, then he could get on a certain person's good side. He then sees a crowd of people by Baron Tamago and Pekoms, who are carrying three large bags. Caribou realizes they must have the treasure. He charges at them, demanding the treasure back. Pekoms recognizes him and looks him up in a book. A Gatling gun extends from Caribou's stomach and he shoots at Pekoms. Pekoms is knocked over but when the dust clears, he is seen hidden inside a tortoise shell. Caribou realizes he must be a Zoan. He flies at Pekoms with a scythe. Pekoms blocks the attack with a single Haki-imbued punch, shattering the scythe and sending Caribou flying. Pekoms afterwards, mentions that the downfall of a Logia is its own pride of invincibility. Pekoms and Tamago then leave while the citizens marvel at Pekoms' strength since he has a bounty of 330 million.
The scene changes to New World, near the Red Line. Marines are fighting multiple coasted pirate ships coming from the sea. Someone shouts that Captain Tashigi is in trouble. Two lovestruck Marines try to embrace her to protect her. She jumps out of the way and toward an incoming cannon ball. Using her sword, she manages to redirect the cannon ball, which blows up away from the ship. The two soldiers cheer, but she tells them to stop messing around. She berates them, not knowing she is yelling at the ship's mast. She asks how they could be joking around right now. She then accuses them of teasing her for being a woman. Smoker tells her to be quiet, since he is in the middle of an interrogation. Smoker turns toward his prisoners, reiterating that pirates were being enslaved by Hody, citing that as the explanation why no rookies came through Fish-Man Island in the last month. But now, they are coming out of the sea practically non-stop. The captured pirates then go on to say that there was a pirate who stopped Hody's war, ultimately freeing them. However, he will not tell Smoker the name. One guy shuts him up, saying that they are dealing with the Marines of G-5, listing rumors of their torture methods. Other Marines ask Smoker if they could have the prisoners now. Panicking, the pirate blurts out that it was Luffy who saved them. Smoker tells them that he already knew that.

Camie tells Shyarly that Luffy and his crew are going to leave the island. Shyarly tells her to go see them off. Before she leaves, Camie notices the broken crystal ball on the floor. Shyarly tells Camie that she is through with foreseeing the future for good, and she could not be happier if she was wrong. Camie realizes her boss is more fearful than anyone, since her prediction may come in a year or more, and there is no way to know if she is wrong. Shyarly asks Camie to forgive her for suspecting her friends of wrongdoing.
The scene changes and Shirahoshi is crying as she holds Luffy in her hand, asking him to stay for another week, then a month, and then a year. After seeing Shirahoshi, Sanji wishes he could stay for a year. Brook says that he will call his new single "Life on Fish-Man Island is a Dream". Zoro tells Sanji he should stay on the island, calling him "nosebleed-kun", much to Sanji's anger. Sanji says he will teach him not to cross the person who cooks his food. Over to one side, the Minister of the Right whispers to Neptune about the tamatebako. Neptune tells him to look at the pirates. Usopp and Chopper are in despair, saying they are going to the New World to die. Chopper wonders if Big Mom would forgive them if they gave her all their treasure from here on out. Neptune and the minister realize they could not tell them at this point. Neptune does add that it was ten years since the bomb was placed in there, it may have become a dud. The Minister of the Right says he does have a point, the castle is damp, and Big Mom might not be the one to open the box. Robin wonders what they are whispering about.
The Minister of the Left then gives Nami a new Log Pose, with three needles on it instead of one. Shirahoshi lowers Luffy so he can see the new Log Pose. Nami looks at the one on her wrist. She wonders why it is moving, since she thought it had already recorded the next island. The minister tells her that each island in the New World as well as Fish-Man Island take only half a day to record. The islands can differ in current, climate, and magnetic fields, which until now have been the only thing they could rely on. However, there are also islands that lose their magnetic fields. The minister points out that only one needle on the Log Pose is shaking, while the other two are completely still. Each needle records the waves of a different island, meaning the navigator must choose which way to go, and the wrong decision could mean certain death. Master navigators can choose the safest routes by observing subtle differences in the needles' movements. The stronger the needle's movement the more dangerous the island. Nami finds this new navigation method deeply disturbing. Suddenly, Luffy wraps his neck around Nami and notices the center needle shaking. He decides to go to that island, as it looks like fun. Nami and Usopp are devastated that Luffy overheard the conversation. Nami tries to strangle him, saying she is the one who chooses the route, but Luffy says he is the captain. Usopp and Chopper beg Luffy to see sense.
Franky then declares that they are ready to go and he even learned how to float up. Hatchan tells them he is staying behind to help repair the factory. Usopp and Chopper have become more enthusiastic, saying they are going to war in Hell. Sanji and the mermaids say their goodbyes, and Sanji calls them the All Blue of his heart. Fukaboshi thanks Luffy. Manboshi declares that they will be leading the strongest army in the ocean next they meet, and Ryuboshi says their reputation will be even more renowned. Luffy and Jinbe simply exchange silent looks. As the crew leaves, the people call from the shore that they now like humans, as well as robots, raccoons, and skeletons. Shirahoshi then swims up and grabs the side of the ship, making everyone fall over. She tells him she will not be a crybaby next time they meet and wants to go on another walk with Luffy, only this time she wants to go to the surface and see a real forest with them. She holds out her pinky and Luffy wraps his own around hers, symbolizing the promise. The other Straw Hats, save for Zoro and Franky, all touch their own pinky fingers to hers. She then waves as they leave, splashing water on her face and holding her pinky finger. Neptune tells his son not to forget their debt. A child then asks his father for a straw hat so he could play heroes with it. His father then tells him that they are only available on the surface. Jinbe overhears the conversation and tells them he will send a merchant ship to get the hats.
On the Thousand Sunny, Sanji is reveling in his memories, but Nami tell them there is no time to rest, as they have to go back through the dark sea again. Attached to the foremost mast of the ship is a string of floating blocks. Franky tells Usopp they are called Kuuigosu, and extremely buoyant wood that he is using to raise the ship. Their speed of ascent can be controlled by how many are let out. Luffy is standing on the bow, and Zoro asks him if something is wrong. Luffy says they will be in the same ocean as Shanks when they reach the surface and he is looking forward to seeing him. He then remembers the day Shanks gave him his straw hat. He also remembers the words of encouragement given to him by Ace, Jinbe, and Rayleigh. Finally, he remembers the conversation he had with Koby about the New World. Everyone gets fired up while Robin simply laughs. The episode ends with Luffy shouting they are going to the New World.

The Straw Hats are heading to the New World. Nami is taking a bath in the Thousand Sunny and Chopper comes in. Nami asks Chopper if he wants to join her in the bath and he says no claiming that he took one two days ago and the cloud reminds him of cotton candy. Sanji and Brook walk by and saw Nami taking a bath so they stare at her. Nami asked Chopper to move aside away from the cloud she made and the cloud electrified Sanji and Brook. Chopper claims he is scared and he won't eat the cloud.
Meanwhile Luffy, Zoro, Usopp, Franky and Robin are hanging out. Luffy tells Usopp to hurry up with the fish hook because he wants to catch and eat a big fish. Robin says that Luffy and Usopp are having fun. Franky says he wants Cola with a big fish. Zoro says he wants to have a drink to celebrate entering the New World. Luffy, Zoro, and Usopp sees three big fish. Zoro wants to eat a fried fish with salt. Usopp wants a fish sliced up and grilled. Luffy wants a fish with mayonnaise. Usopp says which fish Luffy wants and claims that it is not edible. Luffy punches the fish with Gear 2 and Usopp uses the fish hook to grab hold of it. The fish that they caught suddenly got ate by a bigger fish and Zoro uses 360 pound cannon killing it. Nami is still in the bath and she claims that the rest of the crew are making too much of a ruckus and they she shouldn't have trusted them in watching the ship for her.
They suddenly got caught in a White Strom and Luffy claims it is the wormhole of his dreams and Usopp slaps him for saying that. Nami claims the crew to be stupid for getting into too much trouble while she was taking a bath. They get caught in the White Strom and they try to hang out to something so they won't fly out of the ship. They finally crash into a whale without noticing at first. Brook then claims that the whale is Laboon but they finally see a whole bunch of whales and the others claim that Laboon is not here but in the first half of the grand line. Sanji then says that they need to get out of there and asks Nami about what they should do. Nami says they don't need to do anything and Sanji listened. The Straw Hats asked one of the whales to give them a ride to the surface of the New World. Brook sang a song for the whales so they can bring them to the surface. Before they got to the surface the Straw Hats remembered the times during their training to become stronger so they can regroup and head towards the New World.
They finally surfaced and Thousand Sunny hopped off the whales and landed onto the ocean. The Straw Hats say goodbye to the whales and they see some ships claiming they are pirate ships but then they saw that the ships belong to the Marines.

Surrounded by a fleet of Marine battleships, the Straw Hats prepare to fight the overwhelming odds but Nami points out that they were actually mirages. She informs them that they are in the Maubeugemour Sea where dangerous weather phenomena occur and the Straw Hats are in the middle of it. The Straw Hats managed to counter nearly everything the sea throws at them, from humongous rain drops which quickly turned into hail, from snowfall the size of an avalanche and even the very sea splitting into a gorge.  
After surviving the vicious sea, the Straw Hats enjoy a peaceful but hot day at sea. Sanji prepared some meals for the crew made from whats left of the giant fish Luffy caught. However, Sanji sees that the food he cooked is gone, so he blames it on Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper. Chopper thought the sea must be haunted until he hears a voice coming from the soup pot which was now empty. Suddenly, the food in the kitchen began to be eaten very quickly, leading to a hunt for whatever is eating their food. Sanji, having a bad feeling check the pantry only to find all their food supply gone. After a brief scuffle on deck, Luffy finds the person who ate the food and it turns out to be a miniature woman. Realizing that there is no escape she prepares to fight back and grew to the size of a giant scaring half of the crew. She attempts to strike Luffy but he blocks her weapon and with his superior strength threw her in the sea where she was rescued by Sanji before she drowned.
Thanking them for saving her even though she ate their food, she introduces herself as Lily Enstomach. She turns out to be a giant, but ate a Devil fruit that forced her to be small. She tells them that she was trying to save her father who was being sent to Impel Down for stealing food from the world Government and secretly heard that the ships escorting her father were going to pass through the Maubeugemour Sea. She explained that her father is Panz Fry, a giant cook in the New World famous for his Volcano cooking and giving the stolen food to starving people. Luffy then decided to help her save her father because he wants to try her father's cooking.
In a different part of the New World, there is a whole fleet of Neo Marine ships gathering, one of which houses Ain and Binz.
On the Neo Marines' ship, Ain calls Shuzo and asks why he was not there with the rest of the fleet. Shuzo tells Ain he is going after Lily's father to kill him so he can replace her as Z's second in command. Back with the Straw Hats, they began to see Marine ships coming their way who have Lily's father captive, so Luffy declares to do battle against the Marines.

As Panz Fry is being taken into custody by the Marines, Vice Admiral Momonga questions him for his actions in taking the pirates' food from before, Panz Fry states it was because there are other starving people that need it more and that all of the food that Marines take is used for the World Nobles and states they do not need all of the food and question how could the Marines let others starve for the sake of the cruel World Nobles. Momonga states regardless he is still going to Impel Down for being a pirate.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hat Pirates have Nami create a plan for the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates to rescue Lily's father. Chopper, Robin, Brook, and Luffy are the diversion group while Usopp, Sanji, Zoro, and Lily are in the submarine. Luffy goes on the submarine because he finds the diversion group boring. As they go to rescue him, Usopp mentions to Lily that they have met giants before such as Dorry and Brogy, surprising Lily that they met them and states that her father have been friends with the two since they were kids. They execute the plan as Robin uses her Hana Hana no Mi abilities to take out the Marines around the ships while Brook uses his Yomi Yomi no Mi abilities to scare them away. Sanji uses Sky Walk to fight the Marines from another ship while Zoro cuts the chains around Panz Fry. They rescue Panz Fry, but Momonga attacks Luffy, forcing Zoro to intercept him on the spot.
As Lily is reunited with her father, the reunion is ruined as a person named Shuzo intercepts them and attacks Panz Fry. Momonga is shocked to see him, as the two reveal a history together. Shuzo states that the Marines sending a pirate to Impel Down is pathetic and that all pirates from the New World need to be killed and he, along with the Neo Marines and their leader, Z will execute all pirates in the world. Momonga is shocked by the name, having known Z for a while, as the latter is a former Marine Admiral.
Shuzo now decides to kill Panz Fry himself and goes to attack him, but Sanji intercepts and Shuzo is tackled to the ground by the pirate. Luffy attempts to attack and is thrown into the water prompting Zoro to abandon his fight with Momonga and save Luffy. Luffy eventually is saved and prepares to fight Shuzo himself while Zoro will fight Momonga.

Several of Shuzo's men appear and fight against the Marines and easily begin to overwhelm them. Luffy continues to fight Shuzo while Zoro fights Momonga. The vice admiral states that they should not interfere with their business like this. Zoro uses his 360 pound cannon, sending Momonga flying back and destroying a Marine ship. From the sidelines, Nami notices the wave changes in the ocean and realizes a Thrust-up Stream is coming. When Usopp asks what that is and asks if it is similar to the Knock-up Stream like the one that took them to Sky Island, Nami says it is, but smaller, but still has enough power to destroy a Marine ship. She has Franky fire the anchors to the raft Panz Fry and the others are on and lets Sanji and Lily know in advance. Luffy has a hard time against Shuzo's fighting style due to his long arms, but then starts using Haki to overwhelm Shuzo again.
As Robin, Chopper, and Brook make their way back to the Sunny, several Thrust-up Streams take out some ships, and one of the streams has Usopp in the Shark Submerge flying back to the ship. As Nami has everyone get on the ship she has Franky use a Coup de Burst after the raft everyone is one get close to the thrust and they fly away. However, Luffy and Zoro fall off due to the raft breaking and Luffy uses his arms to grab the raft while Shuzo uses a knife with a Vivre Card attached to it on the raft.
After they get away, Momonga gathers his men on a broken ship and laments them having gotten away again while Shuzo goes to finish the Marines off with an attack and defeats Momonga. He then travels to the Straw Hats location, recalling his past fight with Ain. Their fight lasted for over five hours until she won, prompting their leader Z to give her the win and the title of next in command. Shuzo is determined to become the new next in command and destroy the pirates.
The Straw Hats land in a location around some rocks and Robin notes they will be safe for now while Nami is happy that the plan worked and that they finally got out of the sea. Chopper works on Panz Fry, noting he had some bad injuries and that he will be fine if he rests. Lily thanks Chopper for helping her father and the rest of the crew. Luffy is excited that he can try Panz Fry's cooking and Lily reveals she took some food from the Marines and while Zoro notes that that is odd, he changes his tone after seeing she took some sake also. As Luffy asks Panz Fry to make some food, Sanji kicks him stating he needs to rest and Chopper says that Luffy did not listen. However, Panz Fry says he will cook for them, despite Lily's protest stating that as a chef and giant, he was saved by the crew and would shame himself if he refused a request. He then thanks Luffy for saving him and says that he will cook the food.
Shuzo arrives at the location and notes they are out of torpedoes. Several of his men offer their lives to be used as kamikaze torpedoes, prompting Shuzo to acknowledge their sacrifice and say that they are true men. He then states that he will not let their deaths be for nothing. The ships then prepare to attack the Straw Hats.

The Thousand Sunny sails forward into the New World. The crew approaches an unknown burning island; however, none of the three needles of the new log pose points to the island. Nami suspects that there is an anomaly but Luffy still insists on going to the island.
The crew then receives an emergency call, Robin warns them that most of these calls are a trap setup by the Marines to track down pirates, to which Luffy ignores and still answers the call. It is revealed that the distress call is coming from a man in Punk Hazard. After begging for help, the man on the other line has been murdered by a samurai.
Luffy suspects that there is a foul play to which he was hit by Usopp after stating the obvious. Chopper is seen scared while Robin retains her composure. Zoro comments about what the man said about a samurai to which Brook tells a short story about Wano Kingdom. Zoro reminisce on how he got Shusui on his fight with Ryuma. The crew then realizes that the call must have been from the burning island through a baby Den Den Mushi phone. Luffy decides that he wants to save that man and go to the burning island. Nami, Usopp, Chopper and Brook are seen terrified.
At Raijin Island, Smoker and Tashigi are seen intercepting the conversation between Luffy and the unknown man. Some G-5 marines are seen torturing pirates. Smoker orders the marines to prepare to sail and heads out for Punk Hazard.
The Straw Hats then decide who will accompany Luffy in the island. Nami decides to make each member draw straws. Zoro, Robin and Usopp are the ones chosen to go with Luffy. Nami uses Milky Road and creates a pathway for Mini Merry to avoid the sea of fire and arrive at the island safely.
Upon arriving at the island, it is revealed that the burning island is really Punk Hazard, an island restricted by the World Government. Zoro immediately cuts the gate to make an entrance to which Luffy and Robin are grateful for. Usopp is seen complaining all throughout the way. They notice that the island was previously a government facility.
At Thousand Sunny, the remaining crew members enjoy a dessert prepared by Sanji. Nami wonders about the clouds on the other side of the island that look arctic to which Franky replied that it is not possible.
Luffy and the others continue to explore the island but were interrupted when a dragon appears before them.

Luffy, Zoro, Robin, and Usopp are now facing the dragon who asks who they are. Luffy exclaims that the dragon just talked, but Usopp says that he is hearing things, while running away. As they remain intrigued about the dragon, it lets loose a burst of fire, which they all narrowly evade. Usopp trembles in fear while Luffy and Zoro get excited about facing the dragon. Luffy uses Jet Pistol, which does not seem to effect the dragon much, and he realizes that its hide is really hard. The dragon slams Luffy down with its tail forcefully. Zoro charges towards the dragon, but gets distracted when the dragon talks again and it stretches its head out to bite, which Zoro narrowly evades. Zoro uses a technique called 'Ultra-Hunt' which shakes the dragon up a bit, but it recovers quickly and tries to bite Zoro again, which he manages to block but proclaims that the dragon is very resilient and strong. An enraged Luffy then breaks out from the rubble and kicks the dragon, taking it by surprise and hurting it. Zoro tells Luffy that he heard it speak, while Robin and Usopp also witnessed it speaking.
The dragon flies and uses another fire breath attack, while asking if they are allies of "that" Shichibukai. The Straw Hats take cover under some rocks and walls, Usopp gets scared even more while Robin questions if it has a grudge against the Shichibukai. Luffy and Zoro are making a "plan", with Luffy jumping up to knock the dragon down. When he grabs hold of a wall to launch himself, Luffy realizes it is hot and while he is air-borne, the dragon tries to knock him off with another burst of fire. Luffy stumbles and rolls around on the dragon's body, while exclaiming that it is hot, and finds a pair of legs sticking out of the dragon. The dragon then tries to bite Luffy, but accidentally bites its wing which is thrusted forward by Luffy, making it yelp in pain and fall. Zoro then starts to charge forward and yells at Usopp, who uses Trampolia to enable Zoro to jump up and he uses a technique called Iai: Shi Shishi Sonson, and cuts the dragon's head off. While they fall, Luffy starts laughing and says that the dragon looks yummy. Zoro then says that they could have a barbecue with the flames on the island as Robin uses her powers to catch the two.
Back at the Thousand Sunny, Sanji finishes making a meal for Nami and calls for her, but finds everybody is asleep with some fog floating around. Sanji, realizing that it is not fog but actually gas, tries to contact Luffy by reaching for the Den Den Mushi, but is put to sleep himself for breathing in too much of the gas beforehand. A group of peculiar individuals emerge in hazmat suits with the letters PH on them and capture the crew, except for Brook. They mention a master that they are taking their captives to.

Luffy, Zoro, Usopp, and Robin are standing near the dead dragon that Zoro killed and Luffy is trying to pull out the man who is stuck in the dragon's body. Luffy succeeds in pulling out only the legs, making everyone think that he killed the man. The legs are revealed to be alive, making the whole group gawk at it. Robin points out that there is no trace of an upper body while Usopp states that he is quite tall. While the crew remains baffled, the legs start to attack them but promptly run away after the unknown Shichibukai. Luffy is then seen calling to it to join his crew, causing Usopp to hit him on the head and telling him to stop it. Luffy runs after and launches himself at the legs, colliding with it and they both falls.
The group is barbecuing and eating the dragon meat. Luffy asks Usopp what does one call someone "like this" and the latter replies that it is a centaur. It is revealed that the pair of legs is now stuck onto Luffy. Before he can do anything else, the legs lift Luffy up and piledrive him into the ground. Usopp tells Luffy that there must be an upper body in trouble somewhere but Luffy questions where is Usopp's sense of adventure before stating that the legs were born like that. He asks what name does the legs go by when it piledrive him again. Zoro calls to the others from atop a building. He points and the crew realizes they are standing right before a lake, beyond which is a mountain range covered in ice. Usopp and Robin realize that the distress call they received came from the cold side of the island. Luffy is excited by this and wants to eat shaved ice. Usopp, while shouting at Zoro (who, along with Robin, wants to explore the island with Luffy), senses something strange on a nearby chimney. He looks over to see a smiling winged woman staring at him, who then flies off like a bird. Usopp tells the others about what he saw but is not sure about it himself.
In a laboratory, a guard walks in to inform the master of having kidnapped Sanji, Nami, Franky and Chopper and the master is very pleased, especially over Franky's cyborg body and chooses to experiment on them later as he tells his men to lock them in a room. Back on the Sunny, Brook, having been left behind due to them believing he was already dead, wakes up while some guards are still on the ship. He questions if the guards know the whereabouts of Nami and the rest but the guards are too shock and shoot at him.
Later, Franky wakes up to the sound of Sanji kicking the wall and asks what is wrong. Nami tells him it should be obvious and Chopper tells him they are locked up. Franky tries to remember the last thing he did, and Nami assumes that whoever took them must have hit them with sleeping gas, which is confirmed by Sanji. Franky then wonders where Brook is, Nami replies that she doesn't know. Chopper says that if humans are being abducted, then skeletons are not needed. Franky tells Chopper that he isn't human either and Sanji retorts that neither is Franky. From one corner, a voice asks them if they like riddles. The group looks around for the source of the voice, and Chopper jumps back in shock. The voice is from a mouth that is one of eight pieces of a disassembled man's head. The man asks if they could piece him back together. Each member gives it a shot, and they finally get pretty close, having only mixed up the hair and chin, but he admits his gratitude regardless. Chopper asks him why he is alive, and the head says he does not know as he thought himself to be dead when he was cut up by someone and claims he feels shameful for what happened.
Back at Luffy's group, everyone except Usopp plan to go to the cold side and wonders how do they go about crossing the lake. Usopp is pessimistic about surviving till then and wonder how can Luffy stays in high spirits. Luffy is attacked from behind but he manages to dodge. The attacker is a centaur with leopard legs and they instantly become friends after realizing what they have in common. He apologies to Luffy for mistaking him as an intruder. Zoro and Usopp note that he has made another weird friend.
Above them, another person is watching them and counting the numbers. The Den Den Mushi rings and bird woman Usopp saw earlier is asking if the intruders were found. The person answers in the positive and states that they are about to kill them. The bird woman is flying at the cold side of Punk Hazard, pleased.

As Nami, Sanji, Chopper, and Franky look over the head as Nami notices how his head is similar to Buggy, which she attributed to as being weird. She asks if he knows where they are. The head becomes indignant, saying that Nami should behave like a proper lady. Nami picks him up by the cheek, saying he should be nicer to the people who put him back together. The head says he will sympathize with her, seeing as she has been stripped of all she had. Nami tells him that she has not been stripped and is wearing fashionable clothing. The head is shocked that something so revealing would be so mundane. Even still, he tells Nami he likes it, and receives a beating from her and a kick into the wall from Sanji.
The head asks who the Straw Hats are, having heard they were taken from their ship. After hearing they are pirates, his attitude changes, as he cannot stand pirates. He mentions that the land is frozen, which confuses the crew. Nami explains that it is possible since she saw winter clouds from the ship, and so it must be half ice and half fire. She says they need to leave, and she and Sanji jump out of the way as Franky blasts a hole in the wall with his Radical Beam, blowing away the door. Sanji tells the head he should escape with them, but the man stubbornly tells them to leave refusing there help. Sanji then fixes his hair and chin properly, and revealing that he discovered that the man is a samurai from the Wano Country. Just then they hear voices and realize they need to hurry. Sanji tells him about the call from the guy who was cut by samurai. The head says he would not pointlessly kill. He came to the island to save his son. The crew runs, taking the head with them as Sanji says he'll take the head with them and take responsibility. Sanji kicks through a door and they find themselves in a room full of gigantic children.
On the burning side of Punk Hazard, Luffy is having fun with his centaur friend and they race as Robin, Zoro and Usopp converse with Brook on the Den Den Mushi they found. He was still on the ship, which was brought around to the cold side of the island. Brook tells them that he was knocked out but remembers they were wearing gas masks. Robin then deduces that the ship was hit with sleeping gas. Robin asks Brook if he sees a building anywhere. Brook sees a large building built into a mountain. Usopp tells Brook they will hurry over and he should wait for them. Zoro asks if their enemy is from the government. Usopp tells him he would be surprised if their enemy is even human, since all they have seen are a dragon, a bird woman, and now a centaur that Luffy is getting chummy with. Luffy then knocks out the centaur with a kick to the head after the centaur realized Luffy was the intruder. As the centaur goes down, he said he was careless to think Luffy was one of them. Luffy asks why he cannot be, since they had just become friends. Another centaur tries to attack Luffy from behind, but Robin stops it with Cien Fleur Rindo. The group finds it odd that the centaurs' lower halves are those of a leopard and a giraffe, since they are supposed to be horses. Usopp finds a Den Den Mushi on one of the and notices it has CC written on it. He realizes they must be part of an organization. He then adds that they really have to go through the ice lands to rescue the others. Robin hopes aloud that they weren't shot full of holes when they were captured. Zoro remarks that they should have gone ashore from the other side. Luffy argues if they did that they would not have been able to eat a dragon or meet Leggy, which is the name he gave the disembodied legs. Robin wonders if they sell winter clothes along the way to the icy part of the island.
Meanwhile, more guards are investigating the room where the Straw Hats here kept. A floating liquid mass is amazed that the crew was able to destroy a door that was supposed to be indestructible. He goes on to say that no one but Vegapunk should have the technology to build a laser, but the burn marks make it look like a Pacifista blew the door away. The mass asks if they found the escapees yet, and a soldier responds that they should be getting cornered in the Biscuits Room right now. Another soldier comes and tells the liquid mass that a G-5 ship has appeared on the coast. The liquid tells the soldier to get rid of it without killing anyone, as a bunch of dead Marines would be too much of a hassle.
On the northwest shore of the island, the G-5 ship is having trouble advancing, as gas is leaking out. Due to a failed chemical weapons experiment by Vegapunk four years ago, the island became a wasteland. Tashigi comments that no one should be able to set foot on the island since there is so much gas. Smoker corrects her, saying that this much gas is unnatural. Two years ago, the island was a normal wasteland without any fire or ice. At that time, most of the poisonous materials had vanished. It was because of that that Aokiji and Akainu chose Punk Hazard as the spot for their battle to determine who would become fleet admiral. The island was host to a battle so intense, it changed the weather.

In the Ice Lands, inside the mysterious facility, Sanji's group stares in awe as they look at the children in front of them, while the children look like they are scared of the Straw Hats. Sanji asks who the children are, and Nami wonders if this is the island's day care. Franky mentions their size and compares them to giants, but Nami points out that some of the children aren't as big as the others. Sanji then points out that it may be a multi-racial nursery, and Nami notices that no adults are around. a child then asks who they are, and a little girl says that she doesn't know any of them. The little girl then asks them if they are the ones who got frozen, but Nami and Sanji question what she means. The children then notice Franky's body, and begin to stare in awe. The children then start to run towards Franky, and knock Sanji over in the process. Nami tries to ask the kids about the frozen people, but then the children notice Chopper, and begin to play with him. Sanji remarks how popular Franky is with boys, and then a little boy walks up to him and calls him "spiral eyebrows". Sanji then tells the child to shut up, but more kids appear and begin to call him "spiral eyebrows". Franky then starts to show off, by showing the kids his various hairstyles and what he can do with his body. The kids start to imitate Franky, which annoys Nami because she wants to find out information.
Suddenly, the samurai yells out to the kids and asks them if they know a child named Momonosuke, and states that he is a boy. The sight of the samurai's detached head scares the children, and they run away. Sanji and Nami tell him to shut up, because if he keeps it up, they will never be able to get information out of him.
Suddenly, the men in hazmat suits arrive in the Biscuits Room. Franky notices them approaching, and tells the others that it is time to run. Sanji continues to question the children, and the samurai continues to ask them if they know his son. Nami tells the samurai to keep his mouth shut and smacks him, because he is scaring the children, and by doing that, no information can be gotten from them. The samurai states that being hit by a woman is dishonorable to a samurai, and that he should just commit ritual suicide. Nami then tells him to go ahead and do it. The men in hazmat suits prepare to fire at the Straw Hats, but stop themselves when they realize that they will hit the children, which will make their master angry.
In the Burning Lands, Luffy's group has arrived at the lake. Usopp asks Luffy if he really wants to cross the lake, and Luffy says yes. Zoro suggests they swim across, which causes Luffy to say that he is a devil fruit user, and Robin imagines Usopp and Zoro carrying them across the lake on their backs. Usopp says there's no way he's going to do it, and that Zoro wouldn't either, but when he looks at Zoro, he sees him stretching in preparation for the task. Usopp realizes that if they don't cross here, they will have to go all the way around, so he uses his "Special Attack - Green Star" ability to grow fan grass. He then shoots out a Boaty Banana, and Luffy jumps in it. Usopp explains that the fan grass can be used as an oar. Robin then compliments Usopp's new techniques, and he explains his hardships on the Boin Archipelago, where he was able to learn the new techniques. Usopp starts gloating about his courage on the islands, but is interrupted by Luffy, who tells him to hurry up. The Straw Hats then begin to row the boat through the harsh wind on the lake. Robin explains that the harsh winds are due to the major temperature difference between the hot and cold sides of the island. Suddenly, the leopard centaur from before returns, and throws a boulder at the Boaty Banana. Luffy then asks the centaur if he changed his mind, and if he wants to join their crew now. Zoro and Usopp then tell Luffy to stop trying to recruit weirdos. The centaur then pulls out a horn, and blows it. He calls out to his Boss, which makes Usopp remember the conversation with the man on the Den Den Mushi. The centaur then tells his boss to finish off the intruders. Suddenly, a large pack of centaurs appear on the other side of the lake, and the largest one states that he sees a man with swords on the other side, and comes to the conclusion that the man is the samurai who cut his men down.
Back in the Biscuits Room, Sanji's group continues to run from the men in hazmat suits. The hazmat suit men tell the kids to move out of the way, and the blonde haired little boy from before asks Franky if he is from another island. Franky tells him yes, and then the boy asks them if they have a ship, and Franky also says yes to that. The boy then tells him to help them, which surprises the Straw Hats. Sanji wonders what he means by that, and Chopper comes to the conclusion that it is not actually a daycare. The little girl from before then confronts Nami, and begs her to save them, which causes Nami to stop. Nami contemplates helping the kids, but Sanji tells her to hurry up, which causes her to keep running. The kids then state that they aren't sick anymore, and just want to go home, which causes Chopper to wonder what kind of sickness they may have. The men in hazmat suits then walk up behind the kids, and call them brats.
The kids stare in sadness at the departing Straw Hats, and the hazmat suit men confront the children. The men tell the children that the Straw Hats are bad people, and that they should stay away from them. The kids state that the Straw Hats didn't seem like bad people, but the hazmat suit men then say that the Straw Hats tricked them. The kids then ask if each one of the Straw Hats are villains, and the hazmat suit men say they are, and say that they will protect the children from the villains. They then state that they are going to put the Straw Hats to sleep with their gas. The little girl from before then screams out to the Straw Hats, and tells them that she just wants to go home. All of the children then tell the pirates to wait, and the hazmat suit men once again call them brats. The little boy and girl beg Nami to help them, and the hazmat suit men ask the kids to stop running. Nami tells the two that she has to run, but the kids continue to follow them. Chopper then says that they should take the kids with them, but Franky says that they don't even know how to save themselves, and that they can't take as many kids, which causes Franky to go into one of his depressed states. The kids then stop running, and are out of breath. The black haired little girl then screams out to the Straw Hats and asks them to come back later and help them, and says that she knows that there is nobody else on the island that can save them, due to it being uninhabited. She then states that she just wants to see her father and mother again, and continues to beg Nami to come back later for them. A baby begins to cry, and the hazmat suit men continue to approach, and Sanji tells Nami to keep running. Nami then remembers the happiness the kids showed earlier, and contrasts it to their crying now. Nami then turns around, and says that they should help the children. Sanji turns around and says that they can't be sure that the kids actually need saving, and that the men in hazmat suits could be right about them being sick. Sanji states that it is not their job to help every single person, but Nami says that you just can't turn your back on a child crying for help. The hazmat suit men then decide that the best thing to do is to just gas the kids as well, and right as they prepare to shoot, Sanji bursts out from behind and uses Diable Jambe Collier Strike on the man who was about to gas them. The samurai exclaims that Sanji is really strong, and the kids call him really cool. Chopper then joins in on the fight, and uses Kung Fu Point to fight off the hazmat suit men. Franky also joins in, and uses Strong Right to take out a hazmat suit guy. As the Straw Hats fight, the kids exclaim how cool their abilities are. The hazmat suit men are surprised that the Straw Hats stopped running, and Sanji states that he likes Nami's attachment to children, and states that he is falling for her even more. Sanji tells Chopper to go ahead with Nami, and also tells the kids to follow Chopper and Nami, and that he and Franky will fight off the hazmat suit men. He then tells them not to misunderstand his actions, and that he is only doing it for Nami, and that he hates them because of how much she cares for them. The kids thank Sanji, and then go with Nami and Chopper. Sanji and Franky then tell the hazmat suit guys to bring it on.
Outside of the facility, Brook builds a snowman. He wonders how long it will take for Luffy's group to reach him, and finishes his last snowman. Suddenly, someone holding a fire-like sword starts cutting down Brook's snowmen, and Brook goes on the defense and clashes with the swordsman. Brook then notices that the swordsman is just a torso.

The G-5 ship is slowly advancing and the crews are all wearing gas masks to protect themselves from the poison gas. Smoker then spots something and Tashigi commands the people manning cannon to fire at the direction he pointed out. The ice shatters and crumbles away in the aftermath of the firing only to reveal a river. The crews are amazed and four of them question how he noticed it in an overly casual manner, causing Smoker to punch them and answers that the sea currents are a giveaway and that they have to pay more attention, as well as checking on their own behavior. Tashigi comments that it is strange and Smoker agrees, saying that the important point is not about the river existing, but rather, the concealing of the river, which leads to the question if the ice that blocked the river mouth was natural or man-made. A wall of ice looms and the marines begin to shoot at it because if they collide, the warship would sink.
Luffy notes that the group at the other side consists of centaurs and wonders if they will join his crew if he asks. Robin says that they must be colleagues of the man whose distress signal they picked up, to which Usopp agrees. Wanting to clear the air, Usopp shouts to the other group that they are here to help and requests to talk to them. However, Brownbeard, an alligator centaur, replies that Usopp is lying through his teeth because of the samurai in his boat and therefore, they are intruders. Usopp realizes that Brownbeard is talking about Zoro and tries to explain. However, he annoys Zoro so they start quarreling. A centaur comments that they are having a falling out and Brownbeard thinking that it is some kind of ploy, says that it is pathetic and gives the command, causing one of the centaur to shoot at the boat.
Chopper encourages the children to run and Nami notes that he is really fired up. Chopper explains that he was entrusted with this important mission by Sanji so he will definitely see it through. Hazmat soldiers appear but Chopper knocks them all out. Nami wonders where should they go and Chopper replies that she has to figure it out by herself. As one of the children worries, Nami assures her, saying that they have made it through plenty of similar situations so she should just relax and follow their lead. The child then smiles and they set of running again.
Inside the Biscuit Room, Franky attacks the hazmat soldiers with Weapons Left. A soldier observes that he has weapons all over his body and another deduces that Franky is the one who broke down the door. The soldiers prepare to load the gas canisters since the children are now gone. However, before they can fire it, Sanji kicks of their masks and invites them to inhale the poison gas along with them. Without gas mask and having their air tanks damaged, a sheep-like soldier shouts at the rest to not use the gas. Sanji in turn stares at him in amazement due to his unnatural appearance. After being detached, the head still seem to know of the movements of his torso. The severed head starts talking about the events that his torso is experiencing, confusing Franky, who does not know who he is referring to. 
Brook is defending himself from the sword attacks of the torso, questioning its identity and the whereabouts of the rest of his body. However, the torso remains silent, which scares Brook.
The marines works hard at breaking the ice apart to prevent collision. Smoker comments that they are going to reach the end soon and others wonder what is in store for them next.
Brook questions if the torso is a ghost and that if he is, he should not come out during the day. He says that he did not do anything wrong and invites the torso to build snowmen and make ice sculptures with him. However, the torso stabs his sword into Brook's hair. Brook hides behind a mound of ice and is dumbfounded by how the torso can attack with such precision as it does not even have eyes, before realizing that he himself is without them as well. The torso launches a series of attacks to which Brook defends. Brook attacks with Aubade Coup Droit but the torso evades it and unsheathes another sword. Brook sees that it uses Two Sword Style and starts running away from it, screaming that it is scary.
A soldier appears at a laboratory and greets his Master, reporting that the G-5 ship is approaching as the poison gas did not work and currently, they are breaking through the ice with a cannon, forcing their way into the island. At this rate, he states that they will arrive at the laboratory soon. "Master" ponders the reason behind the marines wanting to reach the island so badly and asks who the person in charge is. After knowing that it is Smoker, the Master comments that he is a pain in the neck. He orders the soldier to conceal all of the ships that are moored at the front and to avoid detection at all cost since no one is allowed on the island. On the topic of who is going to deal with the marines, a person standing at the door, hidden in the shadows, volunteers to personally do so.
The G-5 ship docks and Smoker throws his gas mask away. After a while, Tashigi follows and realizes that the air is indeed clean. The rest of the crew confirms this for themselves and asks about the existence of the gas earlier. Smoker replies that it probably is released by someone who does not welcome their arrival. Walking up to Dr. Vegapunk's former laboratory, Smoker comments that is should be abandoned and empty. Testing out the doorbell, it still rings, which leads to the crew questioning who is currently living there. The marines start knocking and kicking the door, shouting for the inhabitant to open up. Before the cannon can be used, the door opens and someone walks out, greeting Smoker and asking him what brought him to his vacation home. Tashigi introduces him to everyone, stating that he is Law, now one of the Shichibukai. His name is proven to be well known as the crew are scared stiff, retreating far away from him and recalling the day where Law delivered a hundred pirates' heart to the headquarters to gain his current status.
Smoker then asks Trafalgar why he is here as no one is allowed to be on the island, to which he calmly replies that then the marines should not be here either.

Chopper and Nami are trying to escape with the children until they come across a door and Chopper breaks it open. They step inside a cold room with frozen people. Sanji and Franky already beat up all the hazmat suit guys and Sanji wants to kill the samurai because he is annoying. The samurai taunts Sanji because of his merciful behavior. Franky then separates them saying that the samurai is just a helpless head. They then try to catch up with the children with Nami and Chopper.
Brownbeard and the centaurs attempt to kill Luffy, Zoro, Usopp and Robin but Zoro cuts the cannonballs they shot at them. Luffy deflects the rest of the cannonballs. Brownbeard tells the centaurs to aim for the water to sink them. The Straw Hats then paddled their way to safety to avoid being sunk.
Brook keeps on running away from the samurai's torso and sees that the samurai's torso got caught in a big snowball and is rolling down the towards the lake. Brook then claims he didn't see anything.
Smoker and Tashigi play a transmission from earlier, and it says that a centaur got killed by the samurai and he is at Punk Hazard, and also says what Luffy had said to them. Law claims that the message didn't come from there and the marines tend to forge messages and transmissions to catch pirates and wanted people.
Sanji, Nami, Franky, Chopper and the children arrive outside and see Law, Smoker, Tashigi and G-5. Franky comes with tank treads on his shins. Sanji then notices Smoker and "Cutie" (Tashigi) and orders them to run away. Chopper and Nami think that Law was behind the children's imprisonment. Tashigi orders G-5 to go after the Straw Hats. Law claims he won't allow the marines to escape so he lifts the marines' ship with Room and Tact. Law and Smoker then prepare to fight, and Smoker claims that his men can not handle Law because of his devil fruit.

The centaurs are still shooting, aiming for the bottom of the boat to sink the Straw Hats. Brownbeard smugly tells them that they will not escape from him, only for Luffy to ask him who he is. Brownbeard is shocked and introduces himself. However, the group replies that they have never heard of him. This caused Brownbeard to be depressed and angered. He fires at them personally and manages to capsize the boat. After falling into the water, Zoro and Usopp carry Luffy and Robin respectively. Teeth chattering, Usopp complains about the temperature of the water. The centaurs prepare to fire the finishing blow and Zoro hands Luffy over to Usopp, saying that he is going to slice them up. Before he can unsheathe his sword, he is dragged into the water, his hands flailing above. Usopp panics and looks on in confusion before dunking his head into the water, discovering that there are sharks swimming around them. He questions why there are sharks in a lake and Brownbeard explains that due to the fight between the two Admirals, a crater is left behind. Seawater seeps in through the cracks, as did various sea creatures, which created the lake.
The Straw Hats are trapped and the centaurs fires. However, the guns exploded and they fall. The interference is revealed to be caused by Brook, who froze the gun barrels belonging to the centaurs. Brook attacks the centaurs and Brownbeard comments that he didn't know that there is another crew member. He says that it doesn't matter, since four of them have already become food for the sharks and asks Brook to take a look for himself. However, Brownbeard saw that the sharks are defeated. Instead, the four Straw Hats are on top of an iceberg, shivering from the cold. Robin says that they are lucky to run into the centaurs and they each pick their targets, wanting to steal their warm clothes. Brownbeard recalls that Luffy is actually Ace's brother, and has a 400 million bounty, scaring the rest of the centaurs and they run. Robin and Luffy use their power to catch their target and Zoro fights a group of them. Brook comments that they are in better shape than he thought.
In front of the laboratory, Trafalgar Law says that he cannot let the Straw Hats escape and uses his powers to switch the four Straw Hats around. Their minds along with their voice are swapped into another body, causing a lot of confusion. Law slices up the warship and an iceberg. He joins the pieces together to form a tall wall, preventing the marines from leaving. The marines tell Law that he is breaking the contract between him and the government and that they are going to report the matter to the headquarters. However, Law calmly tells them not to worry about him, before using his skill, Scan. A pile of Den Den Mushi appears beside him, which is revealed to belong to the marines. Law informs them that he will not allow them to report anything about the island up to the government. 
Smoker rushes towards Law and attacks but he evades. Law retaliates but due to the nature of Smoker's ability, he cuts through the smoke. Smoker warns his crew to stay out of the reach of Law's sword but it is too late as they are sliced apart. Smoker instructs them to stay out of the circle created by Law and explains his power, comparing the sphere to an operating room. He further elaborates by stating that Law has absolute control over the items contained inside and can manipulate it according to his will, giving him his name, the Surgeon of Death. Tashigi rushes towards Law despite Smoker's warning about her Haki being not strong enough. True to his words, Tashigi's sword breaks and she is cut into two.

Tashigi was sliced in half in the last episode. Feeling dishonored by still being alive, she tells Law to kill her. He says that she doesn't have the right to tell him when or how she can die and she tries to attack him with her broken sword. She misses and Law prepares to slice her into more pieces. Luckily, Smoker steps in and takes on a fight with Law. Back at Luffy's group, the beaten centaurs talk about how they underestimated the Straw Hats and how they took Brownbeard with them. While they contemplate on that, Luffy, Zoro, Brook, Robin, and Usopp ride Brownbeard to the mysterious building that Brook saw. In the lab, a hazmat guy tells the mysterious air man that Law and Smoker were in a fight and that the children escaped with Nami's group and that Smoker saw the children. 
The smoke man became very angry but knew that if he tried to kill Smoker, the Marines would think that something was up. Just then, the Harpy that Usopp saw, Monet, informs the smoke man that the pirates they captured were the Straw Hats and that Luffy's group beat Vegapunk's dragon and the centaurs and were on their way to the facility. The smoke man finally decides to kill the Straw Hats and the G-5. Although the hazmat guy warns him that the Marines would be on the alert, the smoke mans says they would just have to suppress things on the island from now on. He then tells Monet to call a man called Joker. Back with Sanji's group, the children begin to realize that Nami, Sanji, Chopper, and Franky switched bodies. They also start to get cold. Sanji states that he doesn't care about anyone anymore and asks if someone has a camera so he can take a picture of himself in Nami's body. When a child falls and complains that it's cold, Franky begins to say that it was a bad idea to bring the children if they didn't have a plan.
Back at the main entrance to the facility, Smoker and Law are still fighting as the G-5 are watching and putting themselves back together outside Law's bubble. As the fighting continues, the G-5 try to figure out why Law was fighting them even though he was a Shichibukai. Tashigi tries to fight and the G-5 stop her. She then reflects on what Smoker told her two years ago: "Pirates will be pirates." Closing in on the fight, Smoker and Law fight so viciously, that Law's recoils cut up everything in the way. Smoker then begins to ask him why he was on the island, with Law saying nothing. Back to Tashigi, she begins to remember what Smoker said after the incident at Enies lobby. She remembers him saying that they have to be promoted and that he would kick the asses of the Straw Hats in the New World.
In the fight, Smoker tells Law that he never trusted the Shichibukai and as Smoker charges at him, Law says under his breath, "Maybe that's the right thing to do," and begins to make stone spikes rise from the ground in Smoker's direction to get him. Although Smoker was able to dodge most of them, Law rises one from under him and Smoker gets jabbed. As he drops his jitte, Smoker once again asks why Law was on the island and the two begin to fight again. Law finally answers the question by asking why the G-5 were here. Law pushes Smoker back and Smoker tries to jab Law but instead breaks through a stone spike that Law rose from the ground. As he ducks from the attack, Law tell Smoker that from his current standing he couldn't see a few things and poked out his heart. Law takes the heart and his sword and says that he doesn't have to say anything to Smoker. With his heart outside of his body, Smoker collapses.

Smoker lies motionless in the snow. With Law leaving with the heart he extracted. The marines seize this chance to run towards Smoker.
Luffy, Robin, Zoro and Usopp are riding on Brownbeard's back when they spot the warship, speculating that the Marines are around. Luffy calls out to someone Usopp saw in the distance, asking him if he remembers him and gives him his thanks. Zoro recalls meeting him while they were at Sabaody Archipelago and Robin identifies him as Trafalgar Law but before she can complete her sentence, Luffy interrupts and tells his crew that Law helped him escape from the battlefield and treated his wounds, saving his life. Luffy runs towards Law eagerly and thank him again, wondering where his crew mates are. Law recalls the events from two years ago and tells Luffy that he does not need to thank him and reminds him not to forget that they are both pirates. Luffy laughs and agrees that when it comes to fighting for One Piece, they are all enemies. Usopp sees a Marine soldier on the ground and seems to know who he is. The Marines run towards Smoker and Luffy seems to remember Tashigi. Tashigi reaches Smoker and notices the hole in his chest. She recalls the method Law used to gain his status and cries, shouting angrily while running towards Law. However, Law says that he doesn't like "lame tear-jerking scenes" and uses his powers to switch the hearts between Tashigi and Smoker. Usopp urges Luffy to leave because the marines are approaching. Before leaving, Luffy tells Law that he wants to ask him something. Law's reply is for them to go to the back of the laboratory, saying that what they are looking for can be found there and they will see each other again, as they both have something they want to retrieve. However, it is revealed that the instructions are meant for Brownbeard. 
Out in the open air, at a mountain near the laboratory, the children are freezing. The samurai instructs everyone to put something on their heads. When it is done, he concentrates and shouts. Smoke surrounds them and coats magically appear on them. Everyone is amazed and the samurai explains that after eating an unusual fruit, he is able to disguise anyone in any way he sees fit. He warns them that the clothes will disappear if they are taken off. The children swarm towards him gratefully. However, Franky questions the lateness of his actions and smacks him, leading him to explain that he enjoyed the sight of seeing Nami in a breast-band, which earned him another smack from Nami herself.
Luffy's group appear in the distance and they reunites. They seek shelter inside a building. The samurai is elated at getting his legs back while Luffy is depressed at his loss. Nami offers Sanji some cigarettes and the Straw Hats affected by Law reintroduce themselves to Luffy. They recount all the events that have happened, gaining more information from the samurai and the children to piece everything together. Luffy is surprised that Law is a Shichibukai now, something which Robin knew. When Luffy mentions that the samurai's legs were cursing about a Shichibukai, Nami questions how can it speak. The samurai explains that he spoke through his farts and it is a specialty of his.
In another cave, the Marines crowd around Tashigi, who is in Smoker's body, which is functioning even without his heart. Smoker mentions that a ship hidden beside the laboratory has 'CC' mark on it. He further explains that if it was an old ship, the initials on it should have been 'PH', which would stands for Punk Hazard. Smoker reveals that the person, to whom the initials "CC" refer to, is a former colleague of Dr. Vegapunk, a scientist by the name of Caesar Clown.
The gas slowly takes shape bit by bit and asks Law what has he done, to which Law replies that he should be the one complaining instead.

Tashigi tells Smoker that if her memory did not fail her, she remembers that recently, there had been numerous occurrence of child abduction. However, Smoker is surprised as he did not know of such matters. Tashigi explains that when such cases are reported, they are published as "accident at sea" or the "work of pirates". She trails off, not completing her sentence. Smoker questions if she is having difficulties saying it and asks her to speak her mind. Smoker voices out, reaching the conclusion that someone in the G-5 unit helped to cover up the abduction cases. As the Marines fully understand the implication behind the words, they protested loudly, declaring their loyalties to the Marines. Smoker shouts at them and comments that they're not even worth suspecting.  He advises them to lower their expectations of the Marines as no organization is perfect. Smoker commands one third of the Marines to leave the island by stealing a ship to report the incident, while he stays behind to recover his heart and body that is swapped by Trafalgar Law.
Caesar Clown hangs up, saying that he has gotten permission to kill as Joker will make it seem as though it is just another accident at sea. Caesar gives the order to capture the intruders, wanting them to be his guinea pigs. Monet informs Caesar about the Straw Hat Pirates' bounties and her analysis of them. An injured centaur comes in, reporting that he was robbed by the pirates and Brownbeard was captured. Caesar reassures him that he will definitely help everyone and asks him to go and get treatment from his new medicine.
Brownbeard declares to the Straw Hat Pirates that Law is definitely going to save him. He informs them that two years ago, due to the incident that happened on Sabaody Archipelago, the eleven rookies present then and Blackbeard are now known to others as "the Worst Generation". He begins telling them about the island's history when it housed Dr. Vegapunk's laboratory. The island was once full of life before a chemical weapon test went horribly wrong, causing a massive explosion that destroyed two out of three laboratories. Heat and toxic substances were also released into the air, eliminating life. The prisoners who served as test subjects were abandoned by the World Government and became paralyzed due to the gas. However, they were miraculously saved by Caesar when he arrived at the island. The air was purified and the prisoners could move again through means provided by Caesar. Brownbeard was also saved when he arrived at the island afterwards. Their situation improved when Law showed up. He used his ability to attach the legs of living animals onto them and enabled them to walk once more. The Straw Hats are touched and now understands the presence of centaurs, bird woman and sheep on the island.
Smoker is also telling his subordinates about the explosion that occurred on the island. However, he states that the person responsible for creating the weapon and causing the explosion was actually Caesar Clown. He reveals that Caesar was the second in command and he was arrested. However, due to his ability, Caesar escaped from the prison ship and went missing. Smoker declares that they have to stop Caesar if he is still doing research because it is bound to be something devastating.
The centaur that Caesar promised to treat is having difficulty breathing while Caesar grins evilly and questions him relentlessly, treating him as a test subject for his "new medicine". He kills him afterwards when he got an unsatisfactory response. When Monet questions Caesar about his failure, he is enraged and proclaims that his experiments never fail. He refuses to accept that the explosion was the result of a failed experiment, since he "killed" the whole island. He states that he is capable of killing the most enemies and he will let the World Government find out that he is the greatest scientist in the world.


The International Gourmet Organization (IGO) hosts a Food Tournament (Tenkaichi Kuokai), consisting of a race to the center of the hosting island and the championship prize of luxuriously rare Carat Sizzled Cattle, hosted by the Tenkaichi Budokai Announcer, IGO Director Mansam and the "World's Strongest Man" Mr. Satan. Luffy, Sanji, Chopper, Nami, Franky, Brook, Zoro, Toriko, Sunny, Rin, Komatsu, Setsuno, Son Goku, Son Gohan, Son Goten, Trunks, Android 18, and The Turtle Hermit enter the tournament, while Robin, Usopp, Coco, Krillin, Marron, Piccolo, Tenshinhan, Yamcha, Chaozu, Puar, Gyumao, Yajirobe, Karin and Videl watch in the audience. As the race begins, all the other contestants are knocked out by a giant Konnanoarijigoku insect, leaving just those eighteen in the race.
The group arrive at a crossroads and split up between a mountain, desert and forest route. Sanji, Komatsu, Setsuno and Gohan travel through a forest, running into a Manpukuhihi; Rather than fight it, Setsuno explains that it will let them pass if they can satisfy its hunger and Sanji and Komatsu cook it several plates of food. On the desert route Brook and Roshi fake heat exhaustion and claim that indecent acts from Nami and Rin will help them recover, which is unsuccessful. Meanwhile, Franky irritates Android 18 by insisting how "Super" being a cyborg is. Elsewhere, Trunks and Goten use Fusion to become Gotenks; Chopper attempts to perform fusion himself, but his only partner is a disgusted Sunny, who refuses. Luffy, Toriko and Goku take the most difficult path: the mountain route. Goku races ahead of the other two but is summoned by Kaio to stop an incoming dangerous creature from space. At the edge of the forest, Tina reports as Zoro arrives lost and is quickly challenged by Zebra. Having just heard of the race, Vegeta arrives looking for Goku, but quickly ends up in a three way challenge with the other two, prompting Tina to run in panic and end her coverage.
Luffy, Toriko, and Goku (having already defeated the space creature) reach the finish line and grab the Goal flag at the same time, instigating a battle between the three for victory; As the battle arena is assembled, Mr. Satan accidentally falls in and the other announcers assume he is competing alongside the three finalists. Luffy, Goku, and Toriko underestimate their attacks and destroy most of the arena, leaving only a small section where Mr. Satan is cowering. Because of this, Mr. Satan is technically the only contender still in bounds and wins the tournament. Mr. Satan decides to share the meat between all the finalists and their friends as a mysterious creature approaches the island.
Mr. Satan shares the Carat Sizzled Cattle prize with the rest of the group, pointing out that he will enjoy it more by sharing it with his friends. During the meal, Robin, Piccolo and Coco become suspicious of the IGO's motives and question Mansam. Mansam reveals that the tournament was a plan to gather the world's strongest fighters and capture the Deep Sea Glutton creature Akami, which has the ability to suck out the energy of living things. Akami jumps out from the sea and steals the power of Usopp, Mr. Satan, and Gohan, becoming larger and stronger. Akami escapes and Setsuno informs everyone that they have 30 minutes to catch it and save those it attacked.
Sanji, Brook, Franky, Sunny, Coco, Piccolo, Goten, and Trunks all attempt to attack Akami, but have their energy drained as well, allowing Akami to evolve into a more powerful form. Luffy, Toriko and Goku find and attack Akami, and are impressed by each other's fighting skills. Their attack is unsuccessful however, as Akami can now absorb the power of attacks thrown at it too. Therefore, Toriko realizes that they need to use an attack powerful enough to defeat Akami in a single hit. Goku asks Luffy and Torkio to distract Akaimi while he charges a Genki Dama ("Spirit Bomb"), borrowing energy from the living beings around him. As Akami begins stealing energy from the charging Spirit Bomb, Goku requests that the other people at the tournament lend their energy to the attack too. Luffy, Toriko and Goku hit Akaimi with an Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gatling, Hit Nail Punch and Kamehameha alongside the Spirit Bomb, finishing off Akami. The group celebrates with a banquet, eating Akami, while Zoro, Zebra and Vegeta are still fighting elsewhere on the island.

Franky is trying to get used to being in Chopper's body. He manages to change into Guard Point, and comments on how unstable Chopper's body is with all of its different forms. Chopper responds that he is used to it. The children roll Franky around in the snow, while Luffy rides on top of him. Sanji learns from Brook that the samurai has left to find his torso, and becomes worried for his safety as he has no means of defending himself with just his head and legs, while Sanji held himself responsible for his safety when he was just a head. Luffy grants Sanji and Brook permission to search for the samurai. When Brook asks Sanji to let him see his (Nami's) panties, and Sanji becomes excited at the prospect of taking pictures of Nami's body, Nami becomes furious and convinces Zoro to go along as well, reasoning that Sanji and Zoro's inevitable fighting rivalry will distract Sanji from doing perverted things with her body. Sure enough, within moments Sanji and Zoro are arguing, Zoro being angry that he had to come along because of Sanji's perverse new attitude, and Sanji angry at Zoro for not understanding how ecstatic the body switching situation has made him. Brook is pummeled by Nami as punishment, and to deter him from wanting to see her panties.
The rest of the Straw Hats discuss their next course of action. Nami's first priority is restoring everyone back to their original bodies, as she dislikes being in Franky's body, as she considers him to be a pervert. Franky (who has now transformed into Chopper's Brain Point) takes Nami's insult as a compliment, making a typical Franky face in Chopper's body that disgusts Robin. Franky notes that whatever they do, the children will be a burden.
Chopper finishes conducting tests on the children. Immediately after, the largest child, Sind, falls to the ground in pain. Luffy asks Chopper to heal him, but one by one the rest of the giant children fall over, holding their heads in their hands. Nami asks Chopper whether the children were really sick, to which he replies that they were not. He asks Sind whether there is something he wants, and what, if any, kinds of activities they do around that time every day. Sind, still in agony, tells him that every day all of the children would get examined and be given candy. Chopper is confused about the candy, and the other children say that the candy is strange, and tastes good. Sind says that he feels really happy when he eats it, and is convinced that it will stop the pain. Chopper, having learned the truth about the children, becomes furious. He yells at the chained up Brownbeard that the children aren't actually sick, as they had previously been told. Brownbeard maintains that although he does not know much of what goes on inside, their benefactor, Master, is a loving scientist who rescued the children and gave them free medicine. According to him, the fact that the children are in pain and have not received their daily medicine proves that they are ill, but Chopper responds with the results of his analysis-there is a tiny but sufficient quantity of a drug known as NHC10 in each of their bodies. The drug is a powerful stimulant, the use of which is tightly restricted throughout the world due to the danger it comes with and its addictive properties. Chopper learned about the drug during his time with Dr. Kureha, in which he learned that proper use of it in medicine requires using only a very tiny amount, in order to prevent addiction. Chopper concludes that the children have been given small amounts of the drug every day for a long period of time, so that the addiction forces them to remain within the research facility. Chopper demands to know from Brownbeard what his master's purpose is for the children, but Brownbeard is angry at him, believing that Chopper is merely insulting his savior.
Luffy suggests going to the research facility to find candy to stop the withdrawal symptoms, but Chopper says not to, as the candy is the means by which the drugs are delivered. Sind begs Luffy for candy, who refuses, trusting Chopper's judgment as the crew's doctor. Sind lowers his hands from his face, revealing bloodshot eyes, a runny nose and saliva dripping from his mouth, which frightens the other children. He goes berserk at Luffy for not getting the candy when he originally said he would, launching him into a nearby fallen pillar. Robin is amazed at Sind's physical strength. Usopp, while surprised, comments that this must be the strength of a giant child, but the other children reveal that none of them are actually giants; all of them were normal size when they first came to the island, and have grown more and more the longer they have remained on the island. One of the children believes that the growing must be the 'sickness' they were told they had, but Chopper disagrees, instead concluding that the rapid growth has come from experiments that have increased the levels of their pituitary hormone.
As the rest of the children gradually enter withdrawal as well, Luffy prepares to subdue them, but in order to ensure no harm comes to them Usopp instead successfully puts them to sleep with his new Sleeping Star attack. Having discovered that the children really were kidnapped, Chopper wants to save the children and return them to their parents, but Franky and Robin note that first they have to find the real culprit behind the experiments: Master. Chopper and Nami stay behind to look after the children, although Chopper expresses a desire for revenge against Master, and Nami's reasoning for staying behind appears to be fear (according to Usopp). Luffy has the largest children restrained with chains, to prevent them rampaging again. Luffy, Usopp, Robin, and Franky prepare to go to the research facility to meet Master, though Franky mentions the fact that at some point they will have to find Trafalgar Law in order to restore their bodies. Luffy seems to think it unnecessary, as he is enjoying the hijinks that have occurred.
In the research facility, Caesar Clown, Trafalgar Law, and Monet are sitting around a table. Caesar holds Smoker's heart in his hand, while Law looks on silently, with a displeased look in his eyes and a frown. Caesar is in good spirits thanks to the capture of Smoker's heart, and says he has already sent soldiers to the Marines and that he knows what the outcome of that will be. Law asks what happened to Straw Hat, and Caesar explains that, having taken Monet's warning about the Straw Hats' possible increase in strength seriously, he sent two powerful people after him: The Hitmen of the Snowy Mountain, the "Yeti Cool Brothers". The two of them are seen from behind in silhouette. They are enormous figures, each with a rifle on their back.
The scene changes to road to the mountain behind the research facility. Zoro, Sanji, and Brook are all lying in the snow. Zoro and Sanji are face-down, while Brook is face-up and spread-eagled, with his drawn sword sticking out of the snow near his head. The shot is expanded to reveal that the trio is in the middle of a trail of two sets of gigantic footprints, each barefoot and several times larger than a human body.


The Yeti Cool Brothers radio in to Caesar, saying they successfully killed Nami, Zoro, and Brook, and ask that they be collected. In the research facility, Clown is talking to Monet, having just received the news that some of the Straw Hats were killed. Monet is surprised that they died so easily, after reading all the newspapers that were written about them, and mentions that Law had encountered them twice before. Clown pulls out a gun, points it at Law, and asks him if he had called the Straw Hats to the island. Law reiterates that he did not even know they were on the island until they ran into him at the front door. Law adds that if the place gets found out, it would be bad for him as well.
Clown remembers when Law first came to the island. He and Law were talking indoors, and Law said that he wanted to stay on the island since it could not be caught on a Log Pose. It also contains remains of government research that he seemed to be interested in. All he asked for was free roam of the island, and that neither of them ask the other too personal questions. Law also made it very clear that no one was to know that he is on the island, not even Caesar Clown's employer: "Joker". Clown says that he sees no harm in trusting Law, and asks Monet if she agrees. She looks up from copying notes about Law and asks if he could heal the prisoners on the island who were paralyzed by the poisonous gas, ending the flashback. Clown tells Law that if he calls the kids back he will do even better and he doubts someone who sucked up to the government in order to become a Shichibukai would make things too difficult for them. Clown turns to leave, but Law asks what he meant by the kids coming back. Clown explains about the drugged candy, holding up a piece to show Law. Law comments that Clown's nastiness reminds him of someone else. Monet asks about a fight with the Marines as Law turns to leave. Law tells them to call him if they need anything. Clown comments that people who think too much can be difficult to handle.
At the remains of one of the research labs, there is an explosion. Nami gets scared and Chopper realizes they are under attack. He is worried about the children, as the roof might collapse on them. Chopper peeks out and tells Nami he cannot see who is attacking them. Outside, Luffy and the others hear the explosion and notice the huge footprints in the snow. Luffy senses two huge animal-like beings near Nami and Chopper. Brownbeard hears the explosion and gets hopeful that someone is coming to save him. He then realizes that it must be the Yeti Cool Brothers. Nami asks him what he's talking about. He tells her that no one has seen them, but for the right price they will kill anyone they are asked to. They are hairy twenty five year olds named Rock and Scotch. Just then, one of the brothers appears from behind Nami and Chopper, frightening the daylights out of them. The yeti has his gun pointed at Brownbeard, saying he is on Clown's kill list. Brownbeard asks if the yeti pointing the gun at him is Rock, and he replies that he is Scotch. He tells Scotch there must have been a mistake and he is assigned to take out the Straw Hats. Scotch plays a recording of Clown calling Brownbeard a useless idiot and giving the order to kill him. Brownbeard is crushed by the fact that the man he believed so much in betrayed him. His last thought is of when Clown once called him a good leader. Scotch then shoots him and Brownbeard goes up in flames. Rock then warns Scotch not to shoot too much or else the roof will collapse on the kids. Luffy then comes back, angry at what he just saw. The yetis shoot at him but miss. He comes at them with a flying kick, but they suddenly vanish. Luffy rebounds off the facility and lands in a snow drift. Chopper runs up, saying that they took Nami.
The Yeti Cool Brothers are seen somewhere else, one of them holding Nami in his hand. Franky's body was the only one that they were ordered to bring back alive, since it had Vegapunk's laser. In the back of the research facility, Law is going out. A guard warns him about the Marines. Law tells him that he does not care and that he can go anywhere he wants, cutting the guard up before leaving.

Chopper tells Luffy, Robin and Usopp that Nami was taken by the Yeti Cool Brothers and that Brownbeard was killed by them. Luffy becomes angry at Caesar for betraying Brownbeard. Franky wants to use rumble ball so Chopper gives him one. He then takes it, turns into the monster form and chases after Luffy because he cannot control it.
Caesar realizes that Franky has Vegapunk's Pacifista beam and wants it. G-5 are fighting against centaurs and Caesar's men. They are losing until Smoker and Tashigi show up. The Yeti Cool Brothers talk with Nami and complain about the cold and Nami retorts that they need to wear clothes. Luffy and Franky find the Yeti Cool brothers and attempt to rescue Nami. Luffy falls into den of spikes set by the Yeti Cool Brothers and destroys it with Busoshoku Haki. He attempts to defeat them with Gear 2 but fails. Caesar's men on the fire side of Punk Hazard open the door and see a dark cave.
Rock fires at Luffy but Luffy deflects the shot back at him with twice the speed. Scotch then shoots at the ice mountain to make it fall but Franky throws it at him. Franky attacks Luffy once again but Luffy defeats him with Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gun. Scotch grabs Nami and runs away with Luffy in pursuit. Luffy falls behind and Law intercepts Scotch. Law slices him in half and defeats him with Counter Shock. Luffy catches up and thanks Law. Law explains that he came to talk to Luffy about something. He says there is a key on Punk Hazard that can upset the balance of the New World and that there are two ways to survive in the New World: going under an Emperor or attempting to fight them. Law proposes an alliance to take down an Emperor.

The episode begins with Law explaining his proposal of an alliance to Luffy and Nami. Law reveals he has found a way to take down one of the Four Emperors but Nami disagrees with the idea of forming an alliance and tries to convince Luffy not to agree. However, Luffy asks Law which one of the Four Emperors he is talking about and after hearing his answer he agrees to his proposal, leaving Nami shocked.
Back at the Straw Hat Pirates' camp, Usopp and Chopper are shocked by the news of an alliance with the Heart Pirates, causing Usopp to yell at Luffy for returning with such an eccentric idea whilst Nami points out that everyone disagrees with the proposal. Law then asks Chopper to treat Franky (in Chopper's body) leaving Chopper frantic at how badly hurt his body is and immediately tries to bandage it up. Robin states she is happy to go along with Luffy's decision but also warns him that alliances are often marked by betrayal and that it's dangerous for him since he is so trusting. In response, Luffy asks Law if he will betray them and when he answers no Luffy smiles with absolute trust, prompting Usopp to yell at him to at least have some doubts. Luffy says to his crew that Law is a good man but even if he isn't he has all of them, who have been training for 2 years, to rely on. Nami, Usopp, Chopper and Franky then become flattered by how much their captain believes in them. Law then puts Franky and Chopper back into their respective bodies whilst Nami is put into Sanji's since Sanji (who is in Nami's body) isn't around, leaving Nami upset and asking Law if there is anything he can do but he explains that there isn't.
Law then reveals that the children are drugged but Chopper replies that he already knows and expresses his desire to send the children home for them to recover. Law further reveals that turning people into giants was a project by the World Government, presumably for military purposes, and that Caesar had wanted to achieve it first as it means to surpass both Vegapunk and the World Government. Law then questions if Nami really wants to help the children and she replies that she does, as she thinks of the children who had asked for her help with tears in their eyes, and firmly states that she will not leave the island unless she knows for certain that the children are safe. Law asks if she will be willing to stay on the island alone, as he has no intention of aiding the children, however Luffy says that he will not leave his friends behind and that Chopper's and Nami's wish is his as well. Luffy also informs Law that Sanji wanted to help the samurai and that if he wanted to team up, he will have to help them. Usopp sighs and explains to Law that Luffy's idea of an alliance is different from that of Law's. Deciding to compromise, Law splits the tasks, telling Luffy to take care of the samurai while he researches the drug, requesting the Straw Hat Pirate's doctor to go with him. Chopper is then comically tied onto Law's hat, as he is too injured to move, which prompts everyone to laugh at the scene and leaves Law embarrassed.
At the burning lands, the centaurs are unlocking the huge door. They walk in and encounter a massive shape, but they cannot tell what it is due to the darkness. A centaur steps closer but clutches at his throat and falls. Gases are release in streams around the shape.
Law carries Chopper by tying a rope around his sword with the other end tied to Chopper. Law then warns Luffy and his crew that Caesar is going to get rid of almost everyone on the island and reclaim the children as he cannot risk the government finding out about the island, which is his perfect hiding spot. He informs them that Caesar has a 300 million bounty, owns weapons of mass destruction and that people who cannot utilize Haki should avoid him. Luffy says that there are only four Haki users available: Law, Zoro, Sanji and himself.
Law answers Luffy's question and confirms that their objective is to kidnap Caesar. However, despite the Straw Hat Pirates being puzzled at to the reason why they must capture him, Law chooses not to explain, saying that there is no point in telling them when Caesar has not been kidnapped yet and asks them to focus because it will not be an easy task. He further warns them that when Caesar is captured, the ball will start rolling and there will be no turning back, giving them the final chance to reconsider their decision. However, Luffy says that it is fine and remains steadfast.
At the fight between the Marines and the centaurs, Tashigi has identified some of them as former prisoners. Smoker is confused and wonders why four years ago, the government had said that there were no survivors.
The Den Den Mushi is ringing but Caesar refuses to answer it, having already predicted the nature of the call. True to his words, the centaur at the burning land is trying to contact Caesar. Something has flown out of the door that was opened and had killed all except two of the centaurs, who are now running. However there is no escape from the slimy like substance flows throughout the land, leaving a wake of destruction behind. It releases a cloud of gas that engulfs the centaurs and they slowly choke and faint. Caesar explains to his subordinate about his pet, saying that it is a very rare type of slime-like creature. He names it Smiley and states that no one will be able to leave the island.


Sanji's group is recovering from the fall and the effects of the KYP gas. Sanji wonders if the samurai is alright. Zoro argues that Sanji wanted to take the shortcut, but the cook fires back that they all agreed to go. Brook remembers the shadows he saw before they fell unconscious. Zoro argues that no one was there while Sanji disagrees. There is a flashback to an hour ago, when the group finds the footprints. Brook calls Zoro and Sanji over to look at the giant footprints. He thinks they might belong to the legendary yeti. Zoro and Sanji tell him to not be ridiculous. Brook gets excited, stating that beyond here lies the dream of man as all three imagine what the yeti looks like. They follow the footprints to the edge of a cliff, turn around, and see two large shadows and hear the sound of guns getting cocked. The Yeti Cool Brothers shoot them with the KYP bullets. Rock explains that the gas can put even the heaviest drinker into a complete stupor. He also tells them about section F-16, home of the icicle pincushion. They blast the tip of the cliff off with their rifles, sending the inebriated pirates with it. Zoro, in his last moments of consciousness, manages to cut the plateau containing the icicles, saving himself and the others.
In area F-16, a collection team discovers the three unconscious bodies. Sanji grabs the leg of one of the soldiers, surprising him. He surprises the soldiers even further by completely defeating the whole group. He realizes that he has to be careful, as Nami's body is far more delicate than his own. He then punches Zoro and Brook in the head to wake them up. Sanji asks Brook if he thinks the samurai is nearby. Brook says he remembers seeing the torso around here. The crew steps on a body unconscious in the snow; first Sanji, then Brook, and then Zoro notices the body and realizes it is the samurai. He is completely frozen. Sanji stomps on the Samurai's head, breaking the ice. The samurai gasps for air. He tells them that he suddenly became paralyzed. He says he is not cold, but Sanji calls him out on his lie. He explains that his ability prevents him from swimming and right now it feels like his torso is under water. Zoro and Brook reason that the torso fell in the salt water lake. Zoro concludes that if he can still feel it, then the sharks have not eaten the torso yet. Sanji realizes they do not have much time and they need to recover the samurai's torso. The samurai is surprised by this kind of kindness coming from pirates. Sanji tells him it is strictly out of responsibility and the second their body issues are taken care of, he is going to fight and beat the samurai to a pulp. The samurai then thanks Sanji. Sanji remarks that he is finally showing some gratitude and maybe everyone should get frozen once.
They then see a group in the distance. It is the Centaur Patrol Unit. They are running from the monster that appeared at the lake. Zoro asks what they are talking about. The centaurs then notice the pirates, angry that they lost, but keep moving. Zoro then looks toward the lake, and does not seem to remember the enormous mountain currently there.
The scene changes to inside the lab. Caesar Clown is talking about how Slime is the same thing that caused the massive explosion four years ago. Everyone thinks Caesar purified the toxic gas, but Caesar reveals that he simply condensed it and, not wanting to be wasteful, compressed it into Slime. He goes on to say that just because people forget a tragedy does not mean it is gone. In fact, it was sitting in the palm of Caesar's hand all this time.
Outside the front of the lab, the G-5 Marines are stealing a ship. Tashigi tries to hold off some enemies, but accidentally transforms into smoke and cannot control it. Smoker tells her to get out of the way and asks if the door barring their escape is open. A soldier responds that the enemy is in the lab and the door will not move. This irritates Smoker, as it would all be easier if he were in his own body.
Behind the lab, Law and Chopper warp into one of Law's Rooms. Law explains where they are and where Caesar and Monet are. He tells Chopper to investigate the drugs while he works on a way to get Caesar and Monet out of the building. Chopper asks why Law could not just capture them since they trust Law so much, making infiltration easy for him. Law tells Chopper he has a certain problem that prevents him from capturing them so easily. The Straw Hats need to capture Caesar as quickly as possible and Law will do the rest. Law then hears screaming. Tashigi looks up to see something flying toward them, thinking it to be a huge bomb. It turns out to be Luffy, Robin, and Franky. Luffy and Franky crash into the bow of the destroyed Marine ship. Robin avoids the impact by using Wing. Robin lands delicately while Franky punches his way out of the wrecked ship. Luffy then shouts for "Master" to get outside so they can beat him up and kidnap him. Franky comments on how good of a shortcut they took while Robin reminds them they are supposed to be secretive. Law is irritated by Luffy's conspicuous entrance, while Smoker and the rest of G-5 are surprised to see him.

Luffy declares that he will capture Caesar. Law says he will deal with Monet while Chopper tries to find an antidote. Luffy and his group try to find the entrance to the lab. Tashigi and Smoker attack Luffy, with Smoker gaining an advantage until Luffy uses Gear Second and tells Smoker to fight him later when he is at full strength.
Back in the lab, the children start to wake up until Usopp puts them to sleep again. They then see pieces of Smiley falling onto the stolen warship. Franky, not being able to find an entrance, uses his Radical Beam to make an opening. The Marines try attacking it but discover that it emits poison gas when they touch it. One of them tries to burn it but it explodes when it catches on fire, destroying the ship.
Back in the burning lands, Zoro, Sanji, Brook and the samurai see Smiley shooting pieces of itself across the lake. Caesar then appears in the lab, explaining that Smiley was his experiment and that it is weak against water. After his speech, Luffy jumps up and grabs him.

Brook recognizes Slime, saying he read about it in a book once. They attack women and use their bodies to melt the woman's clothes. Sanji and Kin'emon are intrigued and ask to borrow the book later. Zoro directs their attention to the lake, saying that the slime from the creature is probably dangerous to touch, as the slime that fell into the lake has killed all the fish. Brook asks Sanji if he is really going to look for Kin'emon's torso. Sanji says he is, and it is something only he can do. He apologizes to Nami in advance, saying he is the best swimmer among them, promising to return before anything bad happens to Nami's body. He tells the others to take care of the slime creatures nearby as dives in, realizing that cold does not even come close to describing the water temperature.
Inside the lab, Law sees his chance as he and Monet are alone in the room. She tells him that Caesar is not there. Law gently sets down the bag containing Chopper on the couch, asking where Caesar went. Considering her boss' bad taste, she concludes that he is probably watching the fighting outside. Law tells her that he is almost done on the island and will be leaving soon. Monet seems disappointed, saying it will be lonely without him. He tells her he wants to borrow her ability for a bit, asking her to come with him. Monet teasingly calls it a date and goes with him, commenting on how cold Law is. When she asks him what he wants, he tells her she will understand when she gets there. Chopper then recognizes Monet as the bird-woman Usopp was talking about.
Outside the lab, Luffy has grabbed Caesar, to the latter's annoyance. The centaurs and satyrs aim their guns at Luffy, angry that he would lay a hand on their master. Franky recognizes that Luffy is using Haki, and is amazed by the ability. Robin tells him that Busoshoku Haki is the ability to grab a Logia user in their intangible state. However, unlike seastone or the ocean, it does not nullify the ability. They still do not know the true power of the Gasu Gasu no Mi, so the battle is far from over. Her explanation is supported as Luffy tries to attack Caesar with a Haki-infused Gomu Gomu no Bell, but Caesar dodges by extending his torso. Caesar then uses Gas Robe, throwing it at Luffy's head.
He laughs as he tells Luffy to inhale, saying he has done countless experiments on how lethal his gas is. Then, to everyone's surprise, Luffy inhales all of the poisonous gas, looking like apparent suicide to those watching. To surprise the spectators even more, Luffy releases the gas from his ears like a steam whistle. He tells Caesar that poisons do not work that well on him anymore, thanks to Magellan. Caesar is offended that he would be compared to a Paramecia Devil Fruit user. While he is fuming over the insult, Luffy attacks him with Gomu Gomu no Jet Mace.
Caesar falls down to earth with a crash. His subordinates are angry that Luffy would do that to him, and prepare to attack them. Caesar insults them, calling them peons and orders them not to touch him. His subordinates are surprised by the insult. Luffy gets ready to attack Caesar with Gomu Gomu no Gatling, but before he can, Caesar hits a pair of castanets together, causing an explosion called Gastonet. Luffy is caught in the blast, and Robin becomes worried. To make her concern worse, Caesar orders the smaller pieces of Slime to attach themselves to Luffy, causing a blinding explosion. When the smoke clears, there is no sign of Luffy. Caesar begins to laugh victoriously, only for Luffy to appear behind him and comment on how close and how big the explosion was, much to Caesar's comically stunned surprise. Luffy then attacks him with Gomu Gomu no Jet Stamp. Franky and Robin breathe a sigh of relief, as Luffy grabs Caesar.
He shouts to Franky and Robin if they have anything to contain Caesar, since they cannot tie up a Logia. Franky wonders if there is a barrel nearby. A Marine calls out that they will take Caesar into custody, and bring Luffy along too. Tashigi tells Smoker that Luffy captured Caesar, and he seems indifferent. Suddenly, Luffy has trouble breathing and passes out. Caesar stands over him, saying Luffy took him far too lightly. Franky, Robin, Tashigi, and even Smoker are all surprised and confused by what just transpired. Robin tries to save Luffy, but passes out too, prompting Franky to charge and attempt to attack, only for him to pass out as well. He then does the same to Tashigi and Smoker and stands over all four of them victoriously.
Back inside the lab, Law and Monet are walking. Law is clutching his chest in pain, and seems to be having difficulty breathing. He tries to speak and falls to his knees, making Monet concerned. He looks into the darkness and asks who is out there. A man steps out, saying he is the one Law felt. Law, who seems bothered to see him, asks what he is doing here as Monet giggles. The man asks how long it has been, remarking how much Law has grown.

Law is seen writhing in pain in front of the mysterious man named Vergo who revealed he was sent along with Monet to watch over Caesar. Before Law could muster some strength to retaliate, Vergo squeezes his heart which he has in his hand and proceeds to knock out Law with a Haki imbued Bamboo stick.
At the entrance of the lab, the G-5 marines are shocked at the scene before them, finding it hard to believe that Smoker was defeated twice in a day. The crews are wondering what attack did Caesar used to defeat their officers and the three Straw Hats as well. Caesar commands his men to tie up the unconscious Straw Hats and G-5 officers and they obeyed unquestioningly, leaving the G-5 marines helpless to do anything.
While still waiting for Sanji who went to retrieve the samurai's torso from the water, Zoro's group are having trouble defending themselves from the slimes because cutting it only results in the slimes expelling poison gas. The samurai is watching the waters worried when he suddenly begin to shout in pain, puzzling Zoro and Brook. In the murky waters, Sanji uses Haki to find the body and discovers it in a shark's mouth. After besting the shark, he rescued the torso and quickly used Blue Walk in Nami's body to escape before the poison could consumed the entire lake. With the samurai restored, he introduces himself as Kin'emon. He expresses his gratitude profusely to Sanji.
Meanwhile Chopper is currently infiltrating Caesar's private lab and is looking for a way to cure the children.
Caesar's men are standing guard over the captives, who are bounded in chains. When Caesar knew that the airship has been prepared, he plans to head out and find the children to administer the drug candy. He gives orders for the captives to be caged and secured in his chambers.
The slimes surrounded Zoro's group. Sanji scolds Brook and Zoro for not dealing with them. Kin'emon suggest that they should burn the slimes, revealing that he can burn and slice an enemy with his sword. He demonstrates his power by igniting the surrounding slime with his sword, which exploded shortly. He proceeds to cut the explosion as well, saving the group. With the way cleared, Kin'emon declares that he is going to save his son. He thanks the group for aiding him and leaves for the laboratory. However, Zoro was interested in the style Kin'emon used and decides to aid him.

It starts off with Vergo still punishing Law. Law reveals that Vergo is the base commander of the G-5 Marine Base. Then it cuts to an unknown island inhabited by the G-5 Marines. They are extremely rude and take what they please. Then the citizens ask if they could look for their missing children, revealing that the children in Caesar Clown's laboratory were in fact kidnapped from this island. The Marines refused to help because they said Vergo already looked over the missing reports and said they have all died.
It then cuts to Nami and Usopp who are still dealing with the children who are going through severe withdrawals from not getting any of their drug candy. Suddenly Caesar Clown appears and convinces the children to come back to the laboratory by bribing them with candy.
The scene then cuts to Zoro's group who are still dealing with Smiley. Smiley is furious that Kin'emon destroyed so much of the slime and decides to send huge slime attacks at them chasing them back to the laboratory.
The scene then goes to Luffy, Law, Robin, Franky, Tashigi, and Smoker in a prison cell and are introduced to both Vergo and Monet. Meanwhile Caesar Clown's soldiers close all entrances to the laboratory leaving the G-5 Marines stranded outside to deal with Smiley.
Vergo and Monet talk about what Caesar is planning but both are still not quite sure what he is planning. Smoker then calls out Vergo saying that his subordinates will die if he doesn't do anything. But Vergo couldn't care less about what happens to them. Then Smoker pieces it all together with Tahigi's theory and realizes that Vergo is responsible for the cover-ups behind the missing children in the New World. Law then states that Vergo was never really loyal to the marines because he was originally a pirate all along, working for the notorious underworld broker "Joker". Vergo then threatens both Tashigi and Smoker saying that they will both die, leaving his secret in tact. Luffy then asks Law "who is Joker" and Law responds that he also worked for him once and someone that they all know who is a notorious pirate that works for the World Government. None other than, one of the Shichibukai Donquixote Doflamingo.

Luffy and his group are still being watched by Vergo and Monet. Luffy doesn't know Doflamingo but suddenly remembered him by Smoker asking him that he already seen him back at the Navy Headquarters. Tashigi commented that Doflamingo attacked Moria after the War of the Best
It then cuts to Caesar Clown entering the lab where Nami and Usopp are hiding the drugged children. The children are still going rampant due to the drug candy's withdrawal symptoms and one of them attacks Nami. Usopp tries to attack Caesar, but fails. Caesar then explains how his ability allows him to control the air itself and suffocates Nami and Usopp by depriving them of oxygen. He then tells the children to finish off Nami and Usopp, by crushing them with metal poles, if they want candy. But before they could, Brownbeard appears and saves them and is furious on Caesar's deceits. Caesar then orders the children to go on his ship, announcing it wasn't safe to stay. Afterwards, Brownbeard tries to fight Caesar, but in the end Caesar uses Gastanet and causes an explosion on Brownbeard. He then turns to Nami and Usopp and performs another Gastanet, which knocks them out.
The scene then changes to Zoro's group who are still getting chased by Smiley. All of Smiley's pieces have managed to cross the lake and are beginning to merge. Meanwhile, the G-5 Marines are dealing with the Smiley pieces outside of Caesar's lab.
Caesar then calls Monet and asks if the broadcast is ready. He then sends a televised message to all the Pirates in the New World, saying he is selling a Weapon of Mass Destruction that the Marines wish they had. A few of the viewers are Pekoms, Tamago, Eustass Kid, and Killer who are interested in what this weapon could do.

Caesar Clown and the children are seen disembarking from the Flying Gas Balloon, surprising the nearby Marines and they question what the ship is. Entering the research laboratory through an upper entrance, Caesar reminds the children that the lab is their home and their candy is in the Biscuits Room. He then orders his subordinates to lock the doors and to make sure they do not escape again. As all of the children hurry inside eagerly, Mocha, who upon entering the room, begins to resist the addictive drug and remembers her frightening memories of the lab. Some of the satyrs attempt to calm her down, but she finally realizes that Nami and Usopp were trying to save the children from Caesar. Having realized what is exactly going on, she begins to try to escape again, crying out for Nami and Usopp to help her.
Far in the distance, back at the Straw Hat Pirates' make-shift hide out, Nami eventually regains consciousness, marveling at how strong Sanji's body is, and how it allowed her to survive Caesar's attack. Noticing Usopp beginning to awaken nearby, she moves to assist him. Confusing her with the real Sanji, Usopp lets slip his disappointment in it actually being Nami causing her to become rather abrasive.
Back in the laboratory, Caesar meets up with Monet and Vergo, the latter of the two talking about how they had just been drinking coffee with some cookies, only to quickly remember that there wasn't any cookies to be had. Asking Caesar when is he going to start the experiment, the mad scientist replies by asking Monet to collect some pictures, and tells Vergo to do a better job at keeping the Marines at bay, admitting that the arrival of Smoker and his men had caused him to become nervous.
Moving towards the cage, Caesar then reveals that he knows all of Law's plans due to Monet's tracking of Law with her abilities, and thanks Law for naively giving him his heart in exchange for Monet's heart as part of their contract. Vergo squeezes Law's heart, which results in Law screaming and trashing around in his restraints. Responding to Caesar's condescending gloat by insulting his intellectual abilities, Caesar becomes infuriated and grabs Law's heart (which was being held out by Vergo), and punches it, inflicting pain upon the Shichibukai. Law screams and trashes around some more, before laying still on the floor, breathing hard as he passes out. Luffy, impressed and shocked at how someone could still survive despite his heart no longer being inside his body, is cut off by Smoker who states that being undone by his own power is foolish and demands to know where his heart is currently being held. Holding it out before him, Caesar gloatingly mocks him about it.
Receiving a call from his subordinates, Caesar then resumes his broadcast to the brokers through a Den Den Mushi, explaining the nature of his pet/weapon Smiley and the history of the island. Pinpointing the one flaw of the weapon from four years ago, he then elaborates and explains that he had since eliminated said flaw, and by feeding Smiley with a special bait he prepared, the poisonous axolotl would became an improved weapon called Shinokuni; being an even stronger poisonous gas weapon than it was before.
Outside in the winter region, Smiley is shown to still be chasing after Sanji, Zoro, Brook, and Kin'emon, who marvel at its still growing size. They notice a giant candy in the distance with a big screen behind it and something underneath. Pulling the sweet across the plains, several of Caesar's subordinates and Vegapunk's dragon are then told by Caesar to escape before Smiley catches up to them. Realizing their sled is no longer usable, and the dragon having freed itself, the men quickly run away with the Straw Hats and Kin'emon trailing shortly behind. Reaching the sweet, Smiley briefly pauses after seeing Caesar on the display. Attempting to show his taming of the monster, Caesar begun issuing orders for the slime, but is ignored. Smiley then devours the large piece of candy.

Caesar is happy that Smiley ate the candy as instructed. He then calls for Smiley to be reborn as the people in the cell look on nervously. Bubbles begin to come off of Smiley as it chases the Straw Hats, Kin'emon, and Caesar's subordinates. The subordinates are panicking while Sanji observes that the candy triggered some kind of chemical reaction within the slime. Kin'emon remarks he does not have a good feeling about the whole thing and Zoro agrees. On the now broken sled is a bag of apples, one of the apples in the bag begins to change its appearance with swirls appearing on it and turning blue, turning into a Devil Fruit. Caesar then tells Smiley that they shall meet again, and orders Shinokuni to come to life. Smiley then explodes, causing it to emit a high pressure cloud of toxic gas. The gas quickly catches up with the fleeing pirates and subordinates. Catching one of them, the satyr becomes completely encased, stopping in mid-run. The rest of the satyrs get afraid looking what it did to the one affected, and accelerate while Caesar celebrates the total success of his weapon, saying he will not allow any of the subordinates back in the lab. He explains that the gas hardens on contact with people, making it so they cannot move, and causing an instant numbing effect. Smoker and the other prisoners watch in stunned silence as the screen showing the men's terrible fate, as do the underworld brokers.
Outside the lab, the G-5 Marines watch the broadcast and realize that what they saw on the screen is happening on the very island they find themselves. They realize the only reason the lab is blocked is because it is the only safe place on the island. They then shout angrily for Caesar to let them in. Zoro, Sanji, Brook, and Kin'emon are barely managing to stay ahead of the gas. Brook points out that some animal is ahead of them. It is the dragon that was pulling the now destroyed sled. Sanji does not believe it but Zoro tells him they do exist on the island, and wonders if they could escape by riding on its back, an idea which Brook likes.
Back in the lab, Luffy spots his friends on the screen. Robin wonders why they are there and how they are able to run the way they are. Franky tells her that that is not the best question to ask right now. Luffy calls to his friends that the gas is dangerous, telling them to run, but is cut off by the weakening effects of the seastone, preventing him from raising his voice. Caesar commends Luffy's friends for their toughness, but tells him it is all in vain since soon the island will be a place where nothing can exist, a shinokuni, and the only people able to survive are inside the lab. Just then the cage begins to tip backward. Caesar boasts that a pirate with a 400,000,000 bounty, a Marine vice admiral, and a Shichibukai could not stop him.
Chopper is watching the cage tip backward from behind, or rather in front, of a door, worrying about what he should do. Just then, a small piece of paper hits him in the head. He uncrumples it and sees the words "do not do anything", and wonders who threw it.
The cage, revealed to be attached to a crane outside, is now outside the facility dangling over the crowd by the door. The Marines outside call out to Smoker and Tashigi, terrified that everyone was captured. The soldiers begin begging for their lives, and Smoker tells Tashigi to tell them about Vergo. The situation is such that even Luffy admits that they have a problem. Overlooking the destroyed lab building, Franky commends the lab and how well built it is, with Robin remarking how the rubble would be a good source of raw materials. Law tells Luffy that they cannot be bothered right now. The current plan is to act on the old one, only to do it right this time. Law then declares that they are going to fight back.

In the New World, a broker is left stunned at how Caesar Clown was able to capture the Shichibukai Trafalgar Law, the captain of the once again active Straw Hat Pirates, the "Devil Child" Nico Robin, and the great Vice Admiral Smoker. Also watching the broadcast, Killer tries to point them out to Eustass Kid, only for his captain to comment in an amused manner about Luffy's return. He then tells Killer that watching is meaningless, and how he does not think Killer ought to work as a broker anyway. Kid also mentions he is surprised about how Law was really was planning something all along, having believed he had become a government dog. Asking if the people had arrived yet, Killer tells him they have and that he was surprised they came at all. Before entering the room, Killer reminds Kid to be friendly, causing the captain to become irritated and tells Killer to shut up. Opening the door, it is revealed that inside are Scratchmen Apoo and Basil Hawkins. Apoo, standing amongst a wrecked room and over one of Kid's badly beaten subordinates, tells Kid that it feels nostalgic for him to see his ugly face. Kid instantly becomes enraged, asking what gave him the right to trash someone's hideout. Apoo replies that when he gets invited by the enemy, he comes expecting a fight and that he had suspected there might be a sniper somewhere. As the two challenge each other, Hawkins declares how foolish the meeting is and that he is leaving. Killer asks him to wait as he steps between Kid and Apoo, reminding them that the three crews came together to try and form an alliance and asks that they at least try to discuss it.
On Punk Hazard, Luffy is curious about Law's idea. Below their cage, the Marines continue to panic about the oncoming gas and call out to their superiors to help them. Asking if anyone in the cage can burn things, Luffy tells Law that Franky can, mentioning he can even shoot a laser beam. Replying that he requires both his hands to use his Radical Beam, Franky instead tells them that he can only use Coup de Boo right now. Law asks him to burn the battleship, which he does so immediately using Franky Fireball. From inside, Caesar watches this and wonders what they are doing, calling them desperate while commenting on their corpses being useful later. Outside, the smoke from the burning ship begins to surround the cage obscuring the view of any onlookers. Taking his chance, Law removes his chains explaining that they needed the smokescreen to hide the fact that they are escaping.
Luffy asks how Law could take off Seastone chains so easily, only for Law to continue explaining and mention that they were normal chains that he put in the lab so he could escape in case he was captured. Law then cuts the pirates free, and wonders aloud what he should do with Smoker and Tashigi as he puts them back in their own bodies. Tashigi realizes that her breasts are exposed and tries to hide them with her knees, begging Law to let her out of the chains. Law tells Smoker he has no reason to save him, but if Vergo loses his position due to Smoker returning alive, that would be good. He tells Smoker he will only free him on the condition that he forget everything he learned about him and Joker. On a balcony below the cage, Luffy calls out to Law about how they can get inside. Surprised, Law worriedly asks how Luffy broke out, with Franky telling him the mesh is not made of seastone. Yelling at Luffy to not do anything on his own, they then escape the cage.
Meanwhile, Roronoa Zoro, Sanji, Brook, and Kin'emon are seen still barely outrunning the approaching gas. Commenting on the comedic way they are running, Kin'emon notes that it is not helping them. Sanji begins to then trail behind due to Nami's body being at its limit, and instinctively clutches his hurting chest, only to grab onto Nami's breast. Realizing this, Sanji is immediately invigorated and shoots ahead of the group, catches up with the dragon and captures it. Nearby, Nami and Usopp are riding on Brownbeard, with Nami apologizing to him for making him carry them in his injured state. Still concerned about the children, she can only hope that they had not eaten the candy yet. Reassuring her that it is not a big deal, Brownbeard states that he has to save his men anyway. They then notice a running figure in the distance, realizing it was the dragon outrunning the gas with several people holding onto it. In front of the lab, the Marines are relieved to see one of the shutters to the lab opening, while inside Caesar's subordinates are panicking due to the shutter opening, asking who had pulled the lever. Someone points up and the subordinates see Luffy, Robin, Law, Tashigi, and Smoker standing over them, a pile of defeated minions under their feet. Tashigi is happy to see everyone inside safely while Law wonders where his heart might be. Luffy remarks how interesting things are getting, and Smoker voices his reluctance about cooperating.
Outside of the lab, Brownbeard, with the dragon now attached to his tail and Zoro, Brook, Sanji, and Kin'emon clinging to the dragon, is running toward the now closing shutter. Zoro asks Kin'emon if he can cut iron and the samurai replies that it is no problem. Zoro then tells Brownbeard to keep running. The two swordsmen cut down the door and Brownbeard barrels through, all of them landing in a heap. Everyone inside is terrified now that the gas can get in the lab, while Luffy is happy to see that everyone is in one place again, and orders everyone to start fighting back.

Though the Straw Hat Pirates and Brownbeard (along with the dragon) managed to escape into the laboratory, they left a large gaping hole on the side of it. They soon realize that Shinokuni will be able enter the lab in such conditions, prompting the G-5 marines to frantically seal the hole back up with various wooden and metal planks. They succeed in sealing the hole up as Shinokuni proceeds to spread throughout the island. Brook uses the power of his Devil Fruit to become a soul and survey the area outside of the lab, noting that "it was like the land of the dead" and "one step outside would kill you".
After regaining their senses, the G-5 marines then turn their guns and swords towards the Straw Hats, preparing to arrest them. Nami notices Law and demands that he switch herself and Sanji back to normal, to which Sanji secretly refuses. Law agrees to return them to their original bodies, using Shambles to switch their hearts back. Nami notices that she originally had a different coat on, and immediately punches Sanji, accusing him for peeping at her body. Law then explains to everyone present that they only have two hours to escape, and then continues by saying the only passage that leads safely out of the island is called R-66 and is found in Building R. The Marines are initially reluctant, but quickly change their minds when Smoker repeats the order to them. Smoker then orders Tashigi to take command of the men and rescue the children as he goes to confront Vergo.
Meanwhile, Caesar Clown is celebrating the deaths of his victims, but notices that the cage has no solidified bodies, which he needs to prove the power of Shinokuni. He also notices the absence of the G-5 Marines outside of the lab. Vergo concludes that Luffy and the others must have broken out of the cage and helped the G-5 soldiers escape.
Before Luffy goes to fight Caesar again, Zoro calls out to Luffy and reminds him that this is just the beginning of the New World and he must not let his guard down again, to which Luffy happily complies as he plows through the Satyr soldiers using Gomu Gomu no UFO. Caesar Clown then receives the news that the Straw Hats and Marines have broken into the Lab, leaving him alarmed and shocked at their escape.

Watching the broadcast of his experiment, Caesar Clown comments that there is now no place left on Punk Hazard where anything can survive. However, he notices the lack of the G-5 Marines in front of the building and notices that he cannot see the Straw Hats, Smoker, and Law in the cage. Monet, also watching, asks Vergo's opinion, and he says that since they cannot see anyone in the cage, they must have escaped. He adds that he may have to kill Law himself because he is troublesome to let wander around. Caesar asks if they escaped, but just then, one of his subordinates enters and informs the group that the Marines and pirates have broken into the A building lobby and are moving forward. Caesar is stunned that they managed to escape and open the shutter, but his subordinate says that they are probably planning to escape through the internal exit. Chopper, seizing the opportunity, ducks out of the room and runs down the hall, saying that he found out how the drug was made and that he found a sedative. As Chopper wonders where to go, Monet seems to notice his departure but does not react.
Caesar, meanwhile, asks where his men are, and is told that most of them are in building B, getting ready to fight. Caesar hatches a plan to block the passage between buildings A and B, isolating A, then destroying the wall, letting Shinokuni in, and killing them all. Caesar's subordinate's panics, saying that some of their men are still in the building, but Caesar does not care. He also tells his subordinate to place a Den Den Mushi near the event so that he can show the brokers the effectiveness of the weapon. Vergo tells Caesar that if Smoker and Law escape, he will also be in trouble. Because of this, he plans to take out the group himself. Vergo wonders where his sword is, but Monet tells him that he is not a swordsman. Vergo, remembering this, heads out.
Inside building A, Luffy encounters the guard to building B, "Machete" Run and promptly defeats him with a Gear 2-enhanced kick. As Luffy fights his way through the guards, he notices a large metal door between buildings A and B closing. Smoker, having just arrived, notices the beeping and asks Law what it means. Law tells him that the doors are starting to close and that Caesar is looking to trap them in building A. Near the front of the building, the G-5 Marines stand in front of the Straw Hat Pirates, Kin'emon, and Brownbeard. Having no patience for this, Brook, Zoro, and Kin'emon hack their way through and are followed by the rest of the group and Vegapunk's dragon. The Marines continue their assault, but Zoro attacks back, only to be blocked by Tashigi. Tashigi tells the Marines that this is not the time to fight, and that they should focus on getting to the next building. Seeing the door starting to close, the Marines pick up the pace, carrying the wounded as they go. Caesar's troops notice Brownbeard carrying the Straw Hats and wonder if he betrayed them as everyone rushes to escape the building.
Outside the lab, a cannon is fired that blows apart the wall of building A, allowing the poisonous gas to seep in. The Straw Hats barely escape with their lives, and Tashigi is thrown in by her own troops. Tashigi tries to run back, but the gate is already closing, leaving some Marines petrified by the gas. However, these Marines pose in stances encouraging their allies to keep going. Caesar, seeing that they have survived, states that he will not let anyone escape.

The Straw Hats and Kin'emon are all escaping on Brownbeard, who is complaining about having to carry all of them, saying they should run unless they are injured. The riders give petty excuses as to why they cannot run, and Brownbeard does not believe any of them.
Close behind them, Tashigi is still saddened by the loss of some of her troops and in shock about how all the activity going on under the Marines' noses, but a soldier tells her they have to keep moving and she agrees. The soldiers next notices something coming from the roof. They then turn and run as the dragon that came in with the pirates breathes a large amount of fire down on them. The soldiers wonder what it is, and Tashigi tells them she heard rumors about there being dragons on punk hazard. She explains that Vegapunk made the dragons artificially to serve as guards of the facility. The dragon darts from wall to wall, descending on the Marines and dodging their bullets. It opens its jaws right in front of one of the soldiers who dives for cover at the last second, sending the dragon's head into the pipes on the wall. The dragon then turns its head around to show it eating the metal from the pipes. The Marines are terrified by the hostile reptile and continue to run towards building B. The dragon then buzzes low over them before continuing ahead of them. A soldier comments that it looked panicked and concludes that something is going on in front of them.
The Marines in front of Tashigi start cheering, saying reinforcements have arrived. Vergo has entered the passage from the other side. The soldiers are overjoyed to see their commanding officer, and ask if headquarters was informed of the situation and about the size of the reinforcement party. Tashigi is the only one not celebrating. Tashigi can barely make enough sound to tell them to run before multiple soldiers fall in front of Vergo. As a Marine falls over, Vergo's index finger is shown with fresh blood dripping from it. A soldier asks Vergo why he is attacking, saying that even as a form of punishment, using Shigan will kill them.
Tashigi remembers when she and Smoker were first transferred to the G-5 base. Vergo was telling them how the soldiers are rowdy and not too bright, but were overall good people. In between flashes of Vergo taking out more troops, Tashigi remembers a soldier telling her about how Vergo sometimes leaves suddenly to go home and care for his sick sister. She also remembers talking to him about a kidnapping case where Vergo told her it was a false claim, and that the parents were in denial and overreacting about the death of their child, saying that the idea of kidnapping gives them hope that their child is still alive, saying Tashigi would understand when she became a parent. Back to the present, Tashigi charges at Vergo with her sword. Vergo blocks the sword with his arm and then grabs her by the head. He then delivers a devastating close range punch that knocks her to the ground and almost unconscious. A soldier yells at Vergo, calling him an impostor, saying the real Vice Admiral Vergo would never do this. The remaining soldiers all gang up and attack Vergo, but Vergo annihilates all of them so he is the only one left standing. Tashigi, in her mind, prays for Smoker's help. Vergo then hears someone and a person is seen bounding around the corridor. Before Vergo can react, Sanji delivers a flaming kick to Vergo's head. The soldiers that are still conscious are surprised to see one of the pirates. Sanji said he heard the sound of a woman in trouble and came to help.
Back with Brownbeard and his passengers, Usopp asks why Sanji left so suddenly. Zoro tells him he felt an unfamiliar presence. Brook and Kin'emon look up and see the dragon from earlier. Nami notes that it looks different, something about its eyes are strange. Brownbeard exclaims that the sedatives have worn off and it is no longer docile.
The scene changes to Luffy and Smoker who are heading to Caesar's lab, taking the shortest route. Inside the lab, Caesar is watching the events unfold, irritated that Vergo took out his test subjects. He orders Monet to block the passage B gate and let the gas in. She tells him that Vergo is still there. Clown says he does not care. Smoker and Luffy arrive at the door to the lab, Luffy out of breath from running. They both tell each other not to interfere. Luffy is fighting Caesar, and Smoker is fighting Vergo. Smoker rings the doorbell, and the door opens, revealing only Caesar in the lab. Luffy delivers a blindingly fast and powerful punch to Caesar's stomach, saying he will not get away this time.

As Caesar reels from the punch, Smoker remembers that before Law freed him, he ordered Smoker not to touch Caesar since he still has his heart. Smoker leaves to go find Vergo. As Luffy begins the second round of their battle, Caesar demands to know why Luffy is trying to capture him which he explains is part of Law's plan. Caesar admonishes him, warning Law cannot be trusted but Luffy retorts that's for him to decide. The two fight with Luffy landing a few solid hits. Caesar tries to suck the oxygen out of him but Luffy manages to get out of range of the powers and attack from a distance. Caesar reveals he has other methods of attack such as a flaming sword. Luffy manages to avoid him and prepares to finish him with a Jet Gatling. However Monet uses some kind of power to make a wall and protect Caesar. On her suggestion, Caesar abandons the battle and leaves to try to locate Law, though promises he has a way to make guinea pigs out of Luffy and his friends. Luffy tries to go after him but Monet gets in his way, claiming "Joker" (Doflamingo) will kill her if something happens to Caesar, prompting Luffy to question Doflamingo's motivations.
At the passage connecting the A and B Buildings, Sanji and Vergo begin fighting, with Sanji landing a "Flange Strike" sending Vergo hurtling into a wall. Seemingly unfazed by the kick Vergo prepares for a counter, and Sanji remarks on Vergo "hardening like steel". Vergo attacks with one of his left kicks fracturing Sanji's right leg while Sanji blocks. Vergo attacks with another left kick as Sanji narrowly ducks, avoiding the blow. As the two continue, Sanji yells for the Marines to run away to the B Building as the room begins to go into lockdown and the gas is let in from the A Building.
An emergency broadcast is heard from the D Building that Law has invaded the SAD production room much to the dismay of Caesar and Vergo, with the latter stating this was what Law was after ever since he became a Shichibukai and that whatever he is planning will make a mess of the New World.

Law walks into the SAD production room, looks up at the giant tank, and smiles. Meanwhile, the Marines are crushed that the shutter closed, trapping Sanji and Vergo in with the gas. Someone tries to make an announcement about Law over the PA system, but the Marines are distracted as Sanji has appeared above them carrying two unconscious Marine soldiers. Sanji is happy to see Tashigi and tells the other soldiers to shut up, saying he only likes it when girls cheer for him. He takes a step and winces in pain. A Marine asks if he hurt his leg, and Sanji tells him he only takes sympathy from women, but realizes it could have been worse if he had continued fighting Vergo. Sanji asks what happened to Vergo, as he suddenly took off. The Marines say that the man Sanji fought was an impostor and the real Vergo would never do something like that. They look to Tashigi for confirmation, and she gives an empty agreement.
Vergo is inside block B, moving quickly using Geppo. He is talking on a baby Den Den Mushi with someone, telling him that Law is after the SAD and how he has betrayed them. The person on the other end laughs, and the scene changes to Dressrosa, where Doflamingo is laughing, saying that he thought of Law as a little brother and watched over him, calling the whole thing a shame. 
Doflamingo continues the conversation as a nearby window is destroyed. An angry and visibly upset woman is suddenly in front of him, her left arm a cannon that she is pointing at the Shichibukai. Doflamingo takes no notice and tells Vergo that the first thing he would do if he were Law, would be to destroy the SAD production room. An explosion then occurs, completely enveloping Doflamingo. 
He is seen lying in the rubble, his legs straight up in the air, still talking to Vergo as if nothing happened, saying that he would kidnap, or rather kill Caesar Clown, the man Law and the Straw Hats want to kidnap. This irritates the woman, who attacks Doflamingo with a scythe from her right arm as he dodges by leaning to the left and mentions that Caesar is the only one in the world who knows how to produce SAD. A man in a top hat and leather mask sitting nearby pulls out a pistol and casually shoots the woman who is trying to assault Doflamingo, who goes on to say that killing Caesar would be detrimental. A rotund, bearded man, wearing sunglasses and a unitard leans over the injured woman, whom he addresses as Baby 5, saying that slaughter that piece of scum where he stands. She angrily says that she will not forgive him this time and Doflamingo mentions that a series of misfortunes will occur. An old woman playing cards nearby asks Doflamingo what he will do about Law. The old man she is playing with says the choice should be obvious, as Law has turned traitor. Doflamingo orders Vergo to kill Law, with absolutely no mercy to the point that Law will wish he was never born. He then leans back slightly to dodge an axe from Baby 5. Vergo asks if he should take a photo of Law's body with the camera he bought in Dressrosa. Doflamingo tells him he never bought a camera, and Vergo says he will just cut off an ear as Doflamingo stops Baby 5 with his ability. 
Doflamingo then addresses Caesar and Monet. He warns them to watch out for Luffy, saying he has Haoshoku Haki and his potential might be greater than Law's. He goes on to say that he has a woman with him who is just a little too hot-blooded at the moment, and he is sending Baby 5 and Buffalo over to help them. Lastly, Doflamingo tells them that when they are done with the current situation, they all are return to Dressrosa immediately.
Back in block B, Kin'emon and most of the Straw Hats are riding Brownbeard. Zoro comments how the little dragon is a lot more troublesome than the bigger one he fought earlier. Brownbeard panics, saying that since the whole area is on fire, the tanks full of hazardous chemicals could explode, which would destroy the walls and let the deadly gas in. Kin'emon becomes empowered, saying he cannot allow that dragon to exist. Brook then says that he will kill it, saying he cannot forgive the creature, no matter what. He remembered when the dragon was about to bite him, but then turned away looking disappointed. Usopp tells Brook there is no part of him the dragon could eat. Brook angrily fires back that bones have nutritional value too. 
Brook and Kin'emon then get into an argument over who will kill the dragon. While they are arguing, Nami is waving her hands, praying for the dragon to "fall for it". Brownbeard asks what she is doing, and Nami tells him she is doing a samurai impression, but Usopp corrects her saying she means ninja. The dragon flies in between three clouds and gets electrocuted in Nami's Thunder Trap. Kin'emon is surprised that the "breast band lady" can use ninjutsu, much to Nami's annoyance. Usopp then uses Green Star Rafflesia, causing the dragon to crash into it and be momentarily stunned. Robin then uses Quarento Fleur: Quatro Mano Hold to clip the dragon's wings. Kin'emon is surprised that the tengu (Usopp) and the escort (Robin) can also use ninjutsu, confusing all of their weapons and abilities for ninja techniques. 
As the dragon falls, it unleashes a breath of fire down on the group. Kin'emon jumps in front of Brook, calling him Sir Corpse, and cuts the flames with his sword. Brook and Kin'emon then use Gavotte Bond en Avant and Flaming Slash, respectively, at the same time on the dragon, effectively defeating it. Brook was then momentarily bothered by being called a corpse before remembering he is one. Everyone celebrates their victory as Brook and Kin'emon continue to stomp on the unconscious dragon. Brook then asks Kin'emon why he hates dragons, saying the samurai acted almost as if it were an act of revenge. Kin'emon tells him that revenge is pretty close. They then run after Brownbeard, realizing they were left behind. Nami then points up to a balcony above them. They see Chopper in Monster Point, fending off the giant children.
Nearby, in the second floor checkup room, a guard in a hazmat suit says a little girl is ok to go back to Biscuits Room and have her candy. She then asks where "that other kid" went, confusing the two men in the room. She says that a kid named Momonosuke went into the forbidden secret room and turned into a small dragon.

In the research room, the guard is shocked when hearing that a kid turned into a dragon and asks the little girl where she saw it and she says she peeked into the Secret Room and kept it to herself and is now worried for Momonosuke. The guard lies saying he is fine and that she does not need to worry about him and that he is eating and tells the little girl she must not tell anyone else what she saw.
In Caesar's lab, Luffy asks what Monet is doing and she makes a ten layer snow hut. Monet passes through the snow huts to see Luffy and asks how does it feel that ten layers of snow huts can not be easily broken. Luffy just says she is stalling for time and he will just break it in a jiffy and tells her to stop wasting his time. He says she can not beat him and she agrees stating she could not achieve victory in a fight with him, but tells him to not confuse victory with fighting ability. She then hugs him with her wings and Luffy notes how cold she is and her body are like ice and tells her to get off. Monet refuses stating he can no longer escape her hold and the coldness will sap away his strength and Luffy begins to become drowsy. She then points out that there is a bunch of snow build up around them and Luffy should lose consciousness soon and asks if it feels good. She tells him to just close his eyes slowly and relax, but Luffy manages to fight it off and use a Jet Spear to break free by breaking the ground. As Luffy begins to laugh, he ends up falling down below from destroying the floor. Monet comments on his hidden potential and tells him that falling from their location will have him end up in the ducts and into the garbage can deep inside the earth. She adds that unless he can fly he won't ever get out and just comments to herself about how he just dug his own grave and says her farewells to him.
In front of the Biscuits Room, Chopper in his Monster Point continues to hold off the children telling them that he knows it's painful but they must endure it and not take any more candy, knowing that they want to go home. He tells them he won't let them get into the Biscuits Room. Chopper accidentally hurts a kid while holding him and he apologizes. However, the other children attack Chopper violently with pipes, calling him a monster and stating that this has nothing to do with him and they want the candy, stating it is theirs. Chopper tells himself it's no use stating unless he fights back he can't stop them. As Chopper falls over the kids note an opening and run to the Biscuits Room and Chopper tries to stop them only for the Rumble Ball to wear off and him turn back to normal. They all rush to the room with the intent to get candy and start trampling Chopper and he can't move and luckily is saved by Nami as the other Straw Hat Pirates and Kin'emon arrive as Nami and Usopp ask what is happening while Kin'emon shouts out his son's name. Chopper starts tearing up glad they came stating that Caesar is trying to make them into big violent fighters and he can't lay a finger on them and says they have to find a way to stop them. As they make their way to the Biscuits Room, Robin uses her Mil Fleur: Gigantes Mano and makes giant hands to stop the children. Chopper then tells Nami about the girl, Mocha, who is trying to help him and says she's in danger and is protecting the candy in the room now. Usopp notes this is bad and they won't stop at nothing to get that candy now.
The kids say the hands are annoying and start attacking and biting Robin's hands causing her to let go stating they are so violent and she can't stop them. The kids see Mocha and tell her to hand over the candy. Mocha, having regained her sanity tells them to not eat it saying it's evil candy telling them to snap out of it that Chopper is trying to help them. She states if they don't listen they won't be able to go home and Chopper says it's useless and tells her to run. She starts running and the kids tell her to not eat the candy on her own and then she sees the exit closed with Monet in the front and asks her to help. Monet tells Mocha she can't keep the candy all to herself and should share with the rest. As Zoro notices her, he asks who she is and Usopp points out she's the bird woman he saw before.
In the SAD Production room, Law is seen bleeding and breathing heavily fighting Vergo. He uses Shambles to get his heart back and at the moment he does Vergo appears in front of him and delivers a powerful kick to the face and sends Law back to the iron bars behind him and he spits out blood. Vergo catches Law's heart and starts squeezing it causing Law to scream out in pain. Law manages to stand up with difficulty and Vergo hardens his arm and starts brutally punching Law over and over again causing Law's hat to fly off and Law manages to grab Vergo and use Counter Shock on him sending a large electrical surge in his body, but the attack did little damage. Vergo easily recovers and delivers' Joker's message of "what a shame" to Law and Law just smirks back at Vergo as he had calculated how to retrieve his heart back from Caesar and that Vergo is his only miscalculation. Vergo says Law should call him Vergo-san and retorts to squeezing Law's heart even tighter, causing Law to scream in agony as Vergo tortures him. Vergo then mentions how he's in the middle of something and 'he' just had to show up, referring to Smoker who just arrived, and says it doesn't matter what it takes, he plans to seal Smoker's lips permanently. As Law seems to have lost consciousness, Smoker responds that it'd be better to end things quickly to dispose of trash looking down on him and calls Vergo pirate Vergo. The two then prepare to fight.

Smoker comments that the room is very disturbing. Vergo tells him not to worry about it. Smoker tells Vergo he is not looking forward to telling the troops about their commanding officer's betrayal, since Vergo is deeply admired by his subordinates. Vergo tells Smoker he will not have to worry about his men. Smoker, angered by this, attacks Vergo with his jitte, asking what he did to the soldiers. Vergo blocks this attack with his bamboo cane. Vergo then teases Smoker for having compassion toward his subordinates, but tells him that since the truth is out, Smoker will have to die. Vergo's cane expands in the middle, and something shoots out of it like a blowgun. The shot causes a huge explosion. Smoker avoided the attack by becoming intangible and tries to attack Vergo from behind. Vergo leans back and narrowly avoids getting hit. He then tries to kick Smoker, but Smoker blocks it with his foot. He swings his cane but Smoker dodges it and moves around to Vergo's exposed side. Smoker then lands a devastating punch to Vergo's face, sending the vice admiral flying back and landing in a heap. Smoker tells Vergo that his tenure with the troops does not matter, because as base captain, Smoker is in charge of them when they leave the base, and challenges Vergo to try and harm any more of his troops.
In building B, Sanji and Tashigi are rushing through, having just gotten to the area the dragon set ablaze. Tashigi is confused by Sanji's behavior and desire to protect her, since they are supposed to be enemies. Sanji tells her that pirates are free spirits open to everyone. As the Marines are complimenting him for stopping the "fake" Vergo, one of the tanks in the room explodes, damaging the wall, and making a hole to allow Shinokuni in. Another tank explodes on the other side of the room, causing the same result. The injured soldiers, as well as the soldiers carrying them, fall victim to the gas. Tashigi can not believe that it would happen in a room as spacious as the one they are in. Sanji tells her to run as he runs toward the gas. She tries to argue, but Sanji just tells her to go.
In a secret room on the second floor of section R, Caesar Clown is watching these events on a monitor, pleased that the dragon's rampage let the gas in, and satisfied that his demonstration will be a success. He tells a subordinate to close the gates to sections C and D. When asked by a subordinate about section R, Caesar tells him the plan is to lead the pirates and soldiers into the corridor and then flood it with gas from C and D, leaving them with nowhere to run. He goes on to say how he does not like the room he is in, but he really had no choice in the matter. There is a huge group of subordinates in front of him, and they ask why he is in Vegapunk's old room, considering the grudge he has against him. One of the subordinates says that Vegapunk is just as much an enemy as the ones outside, since he caused the incident four years ago. Caesar tells them they are vital to his forces and does not want any collateral damage, causing all of them to become emotional. He then goes over his plan. 
Once the shutters to sections C and D are closed, all areas will be closed off, leaving section R the only possible path. That way, all his enemies will be in the same place at once. The ventilation shaft in that room is connected to the outside, so letting the gas in will be easy, and will leave them with nowhere to run. Their deaths will then be broadcasted to the brokers. One of his subordinates asks if Caesar created the gas since it looks exactly like the gas from Vegapunk's failed experiment four years ago. Caesar begins to shed tears, saying the war going on in science makes his heart ache. He tells them that he tried to stop Vegapunk from doing the experiment, since it would be dangerous for the people on the island. The accident happened anyway, and Vegapunk is still haled as the best scientist in the world. He asks if it is right for someone who caused so much pain to hold that title. His subordinates are deeply moved. Caesar tells them that he made the gas against his better judgment to prove that he is the best scientist in the world. He ends his diatribe by saying that once he is acknowledged by the Marines, he will be able to use his scientific genius for the good of the world. Moved by his emotional speech, his subordinates begin to cheer.
Caesar giggles as he flashes back to what really happened on that day four years ago. He was being ordered to cease the experiment, since it would be bad for the people on the island, contradicting what he told his subordinates. Caesar snaps back saying he is trying to make ways to kill pirates, but the Marines argue that they cannot hurt innocent civilians. Caesar laughs, calling them a necessary sacrifice, saying world peace is the calm that comes after the storm. He then calls Sengoku too soft, and reasoned that Akainu would want his weapon. He then laughs, saying he heard Vegapunk's human enlargement experiment failed again. He tells the Marines that the only way to do it is to kidnap children who are still growing and put them through various treatments. Later, he is yelling at Vegapunk, asking him what he is doing. Vegapunk tells him that they are relieving Caesar of his post in the research team. His actions have become too reckless. Caesar yells not to mess with him, and slams a button on a console, causing the lab to explode in a huge mushroom cloud.
The gates connecting area B to areas C and D have now been shut. In the basement, Luffy asks something if it just spoke. Luffy is staring at a dragon and asks what it is. The dragon responds by asking Luffy who he is.

In the scrap heap beneath C Building, the small dragon introduces himself to Luffy as Momonosuke. Luffy thinks that he has heard the name before, but Momonosuke yells at him for drooling. Momonosuke continues, stating that he is not food and would rather eat than be eaten. Luffy grabs Momonosuke's horns, looking for a person stuck to his neck communicating by farts, but soon realizes that Momonosuke (which Luffy thinks is an eel) is the one talking. Momonosuke chides Luffy for drooling, but his own stomach then rumbles. Luffy says that Momonosuke is just as hungry as he is, but the dragon says that a warrior does not go hungry from just ten days without food. Luffy is stunned that he has been without food for ten days, and when Momonosuke asks his name, Luffy introduces himself and says that he is going to be the next Pirate King. Momonosuke is surprised, as he had thought that pirates were hulking brutes, unlike Luffy. Momonosuke remarks that Luffy is also an outsider, and says that the facility is for diseased children.
Momonosuke says that he does not know much about the island, and arrived merely when he sneaked onto a boat. Momonosuke says that even though he distanced himself from the other children, they were nice to him, offering him candy. The children met Caesar Clown, and when asked his name, Momonosuke refused to give one. After declining candy for some time, he managed to escape, hungry and exhausted. He found a Devil Fruit and ate it, but was caught by one of the children. She tells him that they are not allowed to be in that room, but Momonosuke says that he needs to escape the facility. The girl says that they all want to go home, but that being in the Biscuit Room is not all bad. Suddenly, some of Caesar's men arrive, and the girl runs away. Momonosuke, however, transforms into a dragon before their eyes and to his confusion. He manages to escape, and after he is gone, the soldiers remark that the fruit that Momonosuke ate was Vegapunk's failed artificial Devil Fruit.
To wrap up his story, Momonosuke tells Luffy that he is human. Luffy says that he ate a Devil Fruit, and asks Momonosuke why he does not simply transform back into a human. Momonosuke is surprised that he can turn back, and asks Luffy how to do so. Luffy brushes off this question, saying that he is not a Zoan, and remarks that the hole he fell through is a long way away. Momonosuke says that he also wants to leave since he overheard Caesar saying that all of the children will be dead in five years if the experiment continues. Momonosuke continues, saying that he would have warned the children but instead fell into the hole, trapping himself. This infuriates Luffy, who says that he is going to climb the walls along with Momonosuke. The dragon is relieved, but Luffy tells him to get a hold of himself. This makes Momonosuke see a hallucination of Donquixote Doflamingo. This scares the dragon so much that he starts to fly, with Luffy hanging on to him.
Meanwhile, in B Building, Usopp, Brook, and Kin'emon have broken off from the rest of the group to look for Seastone handcuffs at Robin's request. Brook uses his Yomi Yomi no Mi abilities to look behind walls. Usopp is worried about Nami and the rest of the group because he is not there to protect them. However he feels that they will be fine because Zoro is with them.
In the SAD production room in D Building, Law looks on while Smoker and Vergo clash. In B Building, Tashigi and the G-5 Marines are fleeing the poisonous gas with help from Sanji, who is kicking them along.
On the third floor of Building B, Monet has created a blizzard with her Devil Fruit abilities while Mocha tries to escape from the kids who want their candy. Robin tries to help, but is stabbed by Monet. Zoro steps in, saying that he will handle the enemy because she is a Logia user. As of now, there are twenty minutes left until the gas fills B Building completely.

Mocha runs off with the candy and she thinks back in a flashback. Mocha and Sind are on a ship going to Punk Hazard. Mocha wants to go back home to her family, and she cries, and Sind tries to calm her down but he cries too. Caesar Clown finds them later and tells them that his own son died from a unknown disease and he hoped to not see anymore children die from that same disease. Mocha is still getting chased by the children who are drugged by the candy and she is making sure they don't get their hands on the candy. Monet introduced new children to the other children in a flashback.
Roronoa Zoro is fighting against Monet while Nami, Robin and Chopper are going after Mocha and the children. She uses her devil fruit powers to reach the three and Zoro blocks her attack from hitting Nami. Monet hopes to finish off the weaker Straw Hats because it is a strategic tactic. Monet blocks the entrance with a snow wall and is about to bite Nami on the arm until Robin prevents that from happening. Zoro opens up a pathway out of the room so that Nami, Robin and Chopper to get away from Monet.
Luffy and Momonosuke are still getting out of the garbage chute until Momonosuke stops and they both fall back down the chute. Caesar Clown is watching Monet fight Zoro and the children chasing after Mocha. He talks about Shinokuni getting inside the facility being an important use. He says that they will be killed soon. Usopp, Kin'emon and Brook are getting chased by the poison gas and are trying to find the sea stone cuffs and Momonosuke.
Monet asks Zoro why he is only blocking her attacks instead of attacking her. Sanji and the G-5 Marines arrived and Sanji sees Zoro and makes fun of him and the marines do the same. Sanji and the marines see Monet and are admired by her beauty. Monet uses her devil fruit powers and bites off a shoulder of a few marines causing them to panic. Sanji and the marines run off while Tashigi, who had arrived before Monet could attack any more G-5 Marines and used a Haki infused sword cut to harm and stop Monet from attacking her Marines. Tashigi decides to stay with Zoro, reasoning that it seems that she's needed, much to Zoro's chagrin, to fend off Monet together.

Sanji assures the G-5 men that, while he will not hurt women, Zoro is an entirely different story, and that Tashigi and he will be fine as they continue to look for the children. This boosts the Marines' morale that they will get praised by Tashigi, Nami, and Robin if they accomplish their goal.
Meanwhile, Zoro gets mad at Tashigi, claiming that she is getting in his way but Tashigi claims that, in addition to keep Monet from going after her subordinates, she is staying behind because Zoro will not cut a woman basing her assertion on their first duel back in Loguetown. Zoro denies it but claims since Tashigi wants to fight Monet, sits down and permits Tashigi to have the battle. Thinking she assumed Zoro's "weakness", Monet becomes conceited and attacks Tashigi with a barrage of snow attacks. She eventually manages to wound Tashigi with a bite to the shoulder. However, Tashigi endures it because she knows she will lose her arm if she pulls back.
Just when Monet is about to finish her, Zoro cuts Monet on the cheek with Busoshoku Haki causing her to let go of Tashigi. He chides Tashigi for being too slow as he approaches Monet menacingly. Admitting that there are things he would rather not cut, he then asks if she has ever met a wild animal that promises not to bite. Monet realizes he actually is going to attack her, but is paralyzed with fear because of this. Zoro cuts her in half but does not use Haki, thus she survives thanks to her Logia intangibility. He then asks if the two women are satisfied. However, Monet is still too terrified to pull herself back together properly. One half of Monet's body manages to get up and attempts to stab Zoro in the back. Tashigi then intervenes and finishes her off, finally defeating the snow harpy.

Mocha runs away with the candy while the children are on hot pursuit. Chopper, Nami and Robin try to fend off the children but they manage to break through them making Mocha leave herself with no choice but to eat the candy. She eats the candy and Chopper watches with a shocked expression. Zoro and Tashigi are running away from the poisonous gas while Tashigi wakes up and admires Zoro's sword known as Shusui which he got from the samurai known as Ryuma at Thriller Bark.
Chopper walks on over to Mocha to check and see if she is still alive and Mocha wanted to save her friends so she sacrificed herself for them. In a flashback, Chopper is holding off the children by closing the door while Mocha is supposed to run away. Mocha hesitates to run off but Chopper explains the situation to her.
Luffy and Momonosuke finally got out of the garbage chute and immediately ran into Caesar's subordinates who quickly recognize Luffy. Luffy uses Conqueror's Haki to knock most of them out when they were about to attack them and he asked one of them where Caesar is.

As Zoro runs into a corridor that is filling up with Shinokuni, Tashigi tells him he made a wrong turn and decides to go back. Sanji, Robin, Nami and the G-5 Marines sedate the remanding children as Chopper tries to analyse Mocha's condition. Kin'emon is seen running randomly while Brook tries to reason with him and if he keeps running in that direction, he'll run into the gas. Brownbeard is seen going up some stairs, unable to find his crew in their quarters. As he heads towards Building R, Room R-66. Usopp exits the mysterious room and finds the door to Caesar's secret lab. He hears something behind the door, but is unable to open it. 
Brownbeard later arrives to the first floor of Building R. As Caesar watches him on the monitor, Brownbeard is about to reveal to the soldiers of Punk Hazard about Caesar's true colors. Before he can speak any further, Caesar and his subordinates go down to the first floor to meet him. Upon seeing Caesar, Brownbeard demands him to tell him what happened to his men outside on the island before Shinokuni was released. Caesar merely shrugged and say he did not receive their distress call when in truth he did received it be left them to die outside. Angered by the callous disregard of the lives of his men, Brownbeard tried to reveal Caesar's true nature to the rest of the men protecting their 'generous' master, but Caesar managed to inject a muscle relaxant in Brownbeard making him spurt out gibberish and unable to stand. Now in control of the situation, Caesar whispered to Brownbeard that the poison gas incident was his doing. Brownbeard then furiously tried to attack Caesar, only to be shot down by the subordinates he swore to save. Feeling victorious, Caesar prepares to finish off Brownbeard when Luffy knocks him away with a giant Haki-infused fist.
As Luffy prepares for a third confrontation, Caesar taunts him, telling Luffy that he will be in danger from both Doflamingo and an Emperor if he attacks him. Luffy then punches Caesar in the face, saying that he has been dealing with people like that since he entered the Grand Line.

Luffy continues his fight with Caesar Clown after punching him and leaving a deep imprint on his face. Caesar then tries again to flaunt his protection under Doflamingo in order to intimidate Luffy, and immedately attacks Luffy with an attack called Gastille which is recoginsed by one of the subordinates who states that it is capable of melting steel, but Luffy dodges it and delivers another punch to Caesar's face.
With five minutes left until Shinokuni fills up building B, the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates, as well as their allies, are hurrying toward building R, where the escape route off the island is located. Sanji, Nami and Robin as well as the G-5 marines and the now sober children are rushing together towards Building R. Zoro and Tashigi are far behind because of Zoro's bad sense of direction. Only Kin'emon and Brook are going the opposite direction towards the gas because Kin'emon had heard that his son had got turned into a dragon and immediately thought that dragon he slew was his son. Brook tries to stop him but gets dragged along instead. Usopp is the first to arrive in Building R while searching for seastone hand cuffs but ends up in the secret room above the first floor, where the gas trap was prepared.
In the SAD room, Vergo was berating Smoker for using his smoke form against him who is more than capable of handling devil fruit users, and uses his Haki imbued Bamboo stick to injure Smoker, destroying his jutte. However, Smoker was really just distracting Vergo in order to allow Trafalgar Law to regain his heart. With Trafalgar Law's heart back where it belongs, Law is ready to finish his fight. Smoker, who was barely conscious tells Law to finish it quick because it shames him to be indebted to a pirate. Law then calls out to "Joker" who was monitoring the battle with a Den-Den Mushi, and tells him that once Vergo is defeated and Caesar captured, all the SAD at his disposal will be gone and he will lose his position as king of the underground. Doflamingo then laughs, replying that Law's fear of Vergo when he becomes very angry is still there, and that his Haki protects his whole body so that not even Law's power can hope to cut him. Law then proves Doflamingo wrong by cutting a Haki-armored Vergo in half, along with the SAD chamber and the mountain it was built in. Law then states that Whitebeard only ended the last era and that the marines never challenged any of the big name pirates recently because they were preparing a new battle force and that the war at Marineford was really just a prelude to something else. Law continues by saying that, like Doflamingo had said, a new unstoppable wave always marks the beginning of a "new era of great ones", and that he had broken the gears of the cycle so no one, not even Doflamingo can turn them back.

After Law cuts the entire laboratory in half, it slams back down again. The giant children are scared at first, but Sanji and Nami convince them to keep running. The G-5 Marines soon spot Zoro approaching carrying Tashigi while she demands he put her down. Upon seeing the Marines she realizes he has gone the wrong way. Sanji is furious that Zoro picked her up, while Nami tries to make him turn back.
Meanwhile, Chopper's medical room starts to collapse due to Law's attack, and the G-5 medics carry both him and Mocha away, while he continues to monitor her condition. 
In the SAD production room, Vergo has been completely dismembered by Law, and his body parts are attached to a railing. He calls Law's plan a messed up attempt at revenge, and taunts Law saying that he will regret it, and cannot replace Donquixote Doflamingo with power alone. He then asks Smoker to agree with him, but Smoker remains silent, while Law cuts Vergo's head in half one last time, and states that Vergo does not need to worry about him but his own self since the room will soon be completely destroyed, before leaving.
Meanwhile, Caesar Clown realizes his plan is falling apart, and becomes increasingly enraged. He orders his men in the secret room to open the air vents, letting Shinokuni flood the room, and when they argue that there are over a hundred men under Caesar's command left in the room that will be killed, he snaps at them, referring to them as guinea pigs and scum, and that since nobody cares he can keep killing and replacing them as many times as he wants. His remaining minions are shocked into silence by this, to the extent that the ones previously fighting Usopp outright ignore him while he steps back to hide.
Caesar's puzzled reaction to their shock convinces some of his men that he is bluffing, and did not actually intend to hurt them, and, believing it to be a complex strategy, open the vents as ordered. As the gas fills the room, Caesar sucks it into himself, and begins to grow huge, before taking on a more demonic form. Gloating about his new found might, he promptly murders all of his men remaining in the room as a show of strength, enraging Luffy. He then states that some peaceful countries have expressed an interest in his genocide weapons, and that he plans on supplying everyone, ultimately becoming the ruler of a war-torn "land of the dead". Luffy appears to flee, telling Momonosuke to protect Brownbeard.
In the secret room, Caesar's remaining forces are horrified by his casual murder of their allies, and realize he truly does not care about them. Usopp then interrupts, asking if he can use the control panel to help his friends and allies escape. Caesar's subordinates point out that Luffy has abandoned him, watching him run down the corridor on the monitors. Usopp counters that Luffy would find things easier if he did, but that was not in his nature. As he speaks, Luffy, still enraged, stops and turns around to face Caesar again. As Usopp continues to talk about Luffy's positive characteristics, his captain continues by blowing air into both his arms, expanding both of them to activate Gear 3. He then begins to charge back down the corridor towards Caesar, both his arms stretching out behind him. Usopp states that Caesar is the type of person Luffy hates the most, and that Luffy won't forgive him. Luffy infuses Haki into both of his stretched arms and jumps towards Caesar, preparing to use a Gear 3 attack, while stating that he does not want to see Caesar's face anymore.

Luffy is getting ready to hit Caesar Clown with an all out attack. Caesar is begging for mercy, even offering Luffy a job in his organization. Luffy hits Caesar square in the stomach with Gomu Gomu no Grizzly Magnum, knocking him through the gate to the R-66 corridor and into the darkness beyond. Throughout the New World, brokers are watching with mixed reactions. One calls it a joke, another gets mad at Caesar. Tamago decides it would be a good idea to inform Big Mom about what transpired. Another broker declares that Joker is going to make his move. One broker tells someone to inform someone named "Jack", while the person he is talking to states things are going to get bad. Another broker points out that there's an alliance and orders someone to report to the New World, saying it is not just an issue for the underworld anymore. Killer simply watches pensively.
On the second floor of building B, Chopper and the G-5 medical squad are carrying Mocha. Usopp talks to him over the intercom. He tells Chopper to take the stairs on his right and to close the gates to building R. Brook runs after Chopper, carrying a person encased in Shinokuni. Brook cries that Kin'emon was hit by the gas and died. He explains they were checking the testing rooms for any children left in them, and a girl told Kin'emon that his son turned into a dragon. Kin'emon ran back in an effort to find his son, thinking he had cut him earlier, and fell victim to the gas. Meanwhile, Usopp disposes of a group of Caesar's subordinates. Nami runs into building R and is happy to see Luffy. She asks if Brownbeard is ok, and Luffy says he is before quickly correcting himself. Momonosuke is relieved to see that the children are safe, and Luffy smiles, saying he told him his friends would pull through. Sanji, Zoro, Nico Robin, and the children with them are following close behind Nami. Robin and Zoro are worried that Chopper won't make it to the building in time. Everyone is now convening in building R.
Smoker asks Law if he needs something. Law tells him that that is a rail car used to haul SAD. Everyone needs to get on it to escape. Luffy is happy to see Law, and the Marines are overjoyed to see Smoker. Law asks where Caesar is, and Luffy points down the dark corridor. Law gets angry, saying the plan was to kidnap him. Luffy tells him about his total indifference, which bothers Law even more.
Earlier, off the coast of Punk Hazard, Baby 5 and Buffalo are headed to the island. Baby 5 vows to kill Joker when she returns, along with the rest of the town for what he did to her fiance. She goes on to say that this is the eighth time Doflamingo has killed the man she loved, destroying eight towns in the process. She wonders why he wants her to be miserable. Buffalo, the giant man she is riding on, says it is Doflamingo's way of being protective like a big brother. He goes on to say that she needs to learn to say "no" more often. She has a flashback to a sloppy-looking man giving her a flower, calling it love at first sight and asking her to marry him. Baby 5 tells Buffalo that no one can say no to a marriage proposal. Buffalo tells her she gets attached too easily, citing the fact that she reads fifty different newspapers, is too quick to give out money, and is just as quick to spend it. He asks her how much debt she is in. Baby 5 responds that she only owes 98,000,000 and tells Buffalo to drop the issue, instead Buffalo asks to borrow another 2,000,000. He tells her he wants to go to the casino when they return. Baby 5 tells him he can have it as soon as they finish the mission. As she says this, Punk Hazard appears below them.
Baby 5 wonders if the gas will go away if she fires one of her weapons. Buffalo tells her to jump off and that he will take care of it. She does so and he uses his rotating abilities to act as a fan and dispel the gas, calling it Squall Matasaburo. Dispelling the gas uncovers the tanker ship, and they decide to wait there for Monet, Caesar, and Vergo when all of a sudden, the tanker explodes. At first they thought it blew up, but then they realize something hit it. They are even more surprised when that something turned out to be Caesar Clown. Buffalo calls Doflamingo to report it. Doflamingo is surprised at first, but then smiles. He orders Buffalo to recover Caesar and return to Dressrosa immediately. Buffalo wonders about Monet and Vergo, but Baby 5 tells him Joker must have his reasons. Doflamingo is laughing under his breath, saying that with Caesar again in his custody, he can continue to make SAD. While going to collect Caesar, Baby 5 sees someone on the deck of the tanker. Buffalo tells her anyone surviving the gas was an impossibility. To their surprise, the robotic Iron Pirate General Franky emerges from the rubble instead, and looks curiously at the "bird" heading toward him.

Doflamingo sent Baby 5 and Buffalo to retrieve Caesar. Franky (inside the General Franky) caught sight of the two. Baby 5 mistakes the General Franky for a Pacifista. As Baby 5 and Buffalo approach the robot, Franky fires bullets at them. Baby 5 replies by using her machine gun. The shooting creates a cloud around the General Franky that leads Baby 5 into believing that the robot was destroyed. However, when the dust cloud fades, the robot is revealed to be perfectly unharmed.
Because of that, she has no choice but to use the powers of her devil fruit. She first turns into a knife, but is easily matched by Franky's sword. Later, she turned into a missile, which hits and damages the General Franky and the rear part of the SAD Tanker. The fate of the General Franky remains unknown from then on. Meanwhile in a point near the SAD Tanker, Caesar gains consciousness and grabs out, what he believes to be, Smoker's heart and prepares to stab it.
The Straw Hats and everybody else are waiting for the rest of their crew mates. While they are waiting, the crew notices that the gate starts to close. It is because the Shinokuni is just about a few hundred meters from Gate R-66.  The Straw Hats are asked to board the transport cart, but Luffy replies that they won't board the cart unless Chopper and Brook come in. Finally, Chopper and Brook show up running away from the gas. Brook along with Kin'emon's petrified body comes in first, followed by Chopper, Mocha and the G-5 medical team.
The Straw Hats were happy to reunite with them once again. Meanwhile, Usopp was given several Sea Stone handcuffs by Caesar's henchmen though he only needed one. Meanwhile, Momonosuke sees his father's petrified body and is shocked. Everybody climbs on the transport cart to escape the building and find Franky to complete the crew.
Doflamingo (in Dressrosa) calls Vergo for his final message. Doflamingo thanks Vergo for his service in the Donquixote Pirates. Meanwhile, Monet calls Doflamingo for one last time. She is asked by her captain to activate a self-destruct button in the building, similar to the one that destroyed the other two labs around four years ago. After Monet's call from Doflamingo, she made an artificial snowfall to clear her mind from distractions while executing the order. The episode ends with Monet pressing the island's self destruct button that causes a huge explosion in the mountain base.

After Baby 5's attack, Franky Shogun is seen lying on the deck surrounded by flames. Baby 5 reforms through her ability after her Missile Girl attack. Buffalo asks if she needs some weapons he picked up, although comments how she is already a weapon herself. Baby 5 says that they are blessed but the weapons were bought because she felt "needed", due to her personality. Franky Shogun punches her from behind but she jumps out of the way and transforms into a revolver. Frank takes the full blast but laughs it off, condescendingly saying that it would not work.
On the tanker, Caesar realizes that Baby 5 and Buffalo are there to save him while still holding Smoker's heart.
In the SAD production room, Vergo is seen talking to Doflamingo through a Den Den Mushi, where the latter apologizes to the vice admiral for what is to come. He tells Vergo that he was his longest companion and thanks him for his hard work and devotion. Even in pieces, Vergo smiles.
In the SAD transport corridor, Momonosuke is still in shock and in grief over his father's state. Brook mistakes him for an eel. The group then hears an explosion, which Law says came from the SAD production room. Rocks begin to fall down from the ceiling. Law tells them that the corridor is a tunnel built into the mountain and if it were to collapse, all the occupants would be buried alive. Coincidentally, the way in front of them is blocked. However, Zoro simply clears the path with ease.
Monet is still in building C, ready to set off the deadly gas explosion with the button. A series of frames shows scenes such as the children crying, Sanji kicking away a rock and Doflamingo sitting in his room at Dressrosa. Monet says goodbye in her mind to the Shichibukai, saying that he will be the next Pirate King.
Caesar then prepares to kill Smoker, using a sharp object to pierce his heart. He laughs and says "Die, Smoker!" However, Smoker is shown to be perfectly fine while Monet collapses with blood flowing out of her mouth. She pulls up her top to reveal a cube-shaped hole in her chest, which is out of view. Doflamingo realizes something is wrong and orders her to answer him, but Monet collapses from being stabbed in the heart by Caesar. 
On the cart, the children urge it to move forward. Smoker asks Law why Caesar thought he had Smoker's heart. Law has a flashback to the moment when Caesar outlines the bonds of their contract - Law must give his heart and Caesar would give Monet's heart to him. After fighting Smoker, Law had two hearts in his hands, Smoker's and Monet's. Unknown to Caesar, Law had returned Monet's heart. He explains this to Smoker, saying that Caesar simply misunderstood and Law "kindly gave back the heart of the secretary, Monet". He underlines this action with his belief that those who do good will get good things in return. Law then calmly asks if anyone can produce wind as there would be gas in the air when they exit. The Marines are surprised, claiming that no one has such an ability. However, Nami tells them that she can, leaving the Marines even more surprised. Someone else shouts that the exit is coming up.
Doflamingo sees that he can no longer contact Monet though the Den Den Mushi connection is still active. He then confirms with Buffalo that Punk Hazard has not been blown up according to plan. Enraged, he changes into his feather coat, opens a window, and leaps out.
On Dressrosa, a young girl is seen looking for Doflamingo. She asks an old man about his whereabouts, who replies that he should be on the fourth floor. The girl says that he was not, and the window was wide open. The old man seems calm but dark as he is states that he has no idea and that he went alone again.
Somewhere over the sea, Doflamingo is running in midair. He is talking to Baby 5 and Buffalo, who are telling him that they are having a problem with a metal guard. Doflamingo seems uninterested, telling them to finish it off and noting that there was no big explosion. Doflamingo then states that he is coming to Punk Hazard.

Buffalo is surprised by how strong the Franky Shogun is. He then charges at Franky, saying that no one has ever been able to dodge the next attack. Using his powers, he spins Baby 5 on one of his chains, who in turn uses Sickle Girl, and then slams her into Franky Shogun's left arm, impaling it. Franky laughs and says he will give them credit, but only for breaking through the robot's armor, and compares the pair to a praying mantis taking on a warship. He then grabs Baby 5 and yanks on the chain, causing Buffalo to lose his balance and hurl forward. He then declares that the Gaon Cannon has set foot on land, and shoots them with Franky Shogun's most powerful attack, General Cannon. As Buffalo and Baby 5 are reeling from the attack, they wonder why someone like this would try to impede them taking Caesar. Franky then looks down from the tanker and sees Caesar lying there, and wonders how the scientist got there. Buffalo stands up, declaring that he is not going down that easily, saying that such a defeat would drag Joker's name through the mud. Baby 5 then declares that they will be taking Caesar with them, no matter what it takes. Franky then asks them if he is correct in concluding that they want Caesar.
Back in R-66, the exit is in sight. Usopp begs Nami to conjure up some wind, so they will not die. Everyone cheers as they exit. Franky is happy to see that everyone made it out. Baby 5 and Buffalo are seen surprised by their sudden arrival. Luffy, Usopp, Chopper, and the rest of the boys in the cart are very excited to see the robot, while Nami, Robin, Tashigi, and the rest of the girls are visibly unimpressed. Law is surprised to see Buffalo and Baby 5, who asks him if he is really going to defy Joker, who has been saving the heart seat for him. Luffy asks if those two are Law's friends, and Law tells him no. Realizing their sudden disadvantage, Buffalo and Baby 5 grab Caesar and start to fly away. Usopp tells everyone to leave the escaping pair to him. Law is about to use his powers and tries to argue, but Luffy cuts him off, telling him that Usopp has things under control, and Zoro tells him not to underestimate Usopp. Law argues, saying that if they get away, the plan will be ruined. Nami cuts him off again, saying that if they are going to have an alliance, then Law needs to trust them more, adding that she needs to do a little fighting after doing nothing but running. Usopp and Nami then declare that they will take care of the far away enemies with their backs turned, and Zoro tells them to hurry up. Usopp then orders his Bakun Grass to grow into his Kuro Kabuto, which then starts eating the nearby rubble and twisted metal. Buffalo tells Baby 5 to watch the rear, since he cannot while flying. While Baby 5 vows to defend them with her life, a giant weather egg, called Lightning-chan by Nami, flies over them and releases a huge storm cloud. Baby 5 looks at the cloud worriedly while Nami declares they will not get away. She then attacks them with Thunder Breed Tempo, landing a direct hit. 
As they start falling, Buffalo calls to Baby 5 and realizes she is unconscious. Usopp then attacks them with Killer Shooting Star Rush, shooting several pieces of stone from the rubble at them. Caesar tells Buffalo that, since he cannot move, he must protect him and Buffalo declares that he will complete a mission for the Donquixote family as they are pelted with rubble. As the two go down, Caesar manages to stay airborne as the shots pass through him. He then decides he will go to Dressrosa by himself. Usopp tells him that escaping is useless, since the last shot was seastone handcuffs. The cuffs catch Caesar around the neck. Everyone cheers as Usopp proudly declares that he will fight anyone whose back is turned. As the three fall into the ocean, Law declares the first step of his plan is complete and Luffy asks Law what he thought about his crew's abilities.
Somewhere on the sea, a shadowy figure has overslept, and is wondering how to get to Punk Hazard.

The Marines draw a line to separate themselves from the pirates, saying they could have the tanker, but warning them not to cross the line. Smoker asks the soldiers why they went that far, since the order was just not to mingle with them. The soldier responds that they must be thorough, while another makes an exception for the medical squad. Smoker tells them that he got through to the G-5 base, and a ship is on its way. Luffy is talking with Brownbeard, who has opted to turn himself in since the Marines would cure him of the poisons and other chemicals Caesar Clown put into his body. Luffy says it is too bad, since they had just become friends. The Marines yell at Luffy for crossing the line they made, and Luffy tells them they just made up that rule while next to him. Meanwhile, Sanji and Brook are laying bricks for a barbecue pit. Brownbeard goes on to say that he no longer has any comrades, and that being in jail is better than being Caesar's guinea pig. 
Just then, Chopper shouts accuses Law to be a murderer. Franky tells him to stop, almost dropping the mast he is lifting. He then continues to help the Marines repair the tanker's damaged mast. He adds that they should have told him that the tanker was important so he could have moved his fight from earlier away from it and not have to repair it like he is now. Chopper tells Luffy to stop him, continuing to yell about a murderer, saying he means Law. Brook is also shouting, much to the annoyance of Luffy and Sanji. Brook tells them that he broke Kin'emon, feeling remorse despite the samurai already being dead. Kin'emon's shell begins to crack, revealing the samurai inside. Luffy, Sanji, and Brook all scream at him in shock, and Kin'emon screams right back at them. Sanji kicks him angrily, asking how he could possibly be alive. When Brook calls Sanji's actions uncalled for, the chef responds that the samurai deserved for not being dead like he was supposed to be. Father and son are reunited at last, with Momonosuke jumping into his father's arms. Luffy is somewhat surprised to see the boy, and not the dragon he had come to know. For whatever reason, Momonosuke is missing his clothes, but is soon given an outfit much like his father's as well as a proper introduction as a child from Wano Country. Shortly after their reunion, Momonosuke faints, apparently from starvation. 
Chopper is yelling for Law to come outside, demanding to know what he was doing with the children in the infirmary. Law tells him to mind his own business, as he is now finished with taking them to pieces. This answer frightens Chopper to no end, and he runs into the infirmary, with Law adding that he had to methodically treat them for all the chemicals they were exposed to. Inside the infirmary, Chopper is met with enthusiastic greetings from all the children. They tell him that the man in the fluffy hat (Law) took all of the drugs and chemicals from their bodies and they are all completely cured. They said that being in pieces was cool but scary. The only one who has not woken up yet it Mocha. As the facts start falling into place, the children realize their "master" was a bad person and that Mocha was partly responsible for saving them. One child says his memory of the events is still fuzzy, but that Mocha collapsed after coughing up blood. Another child asks if Mocha will be alright. Chopper reassures her that Mocha will be fine and everyone will be going home. They then ask to see Nami, calling her the orange lady, remembering her initial promise to save them. Just as they say this, a woman comes through the doorway. It is revealed to be Tashigi, and she tells the children that they are now under the protection and supervision of the Marines, much to their disappointment. They also ask to see the robot (Franky) and rubber man (Luffy).
Outside, Usopp is catching a whiff of what Sanji is cooking, and is looking forward to eating. He then turns to Nami and asks her if she was the one who asked the Marines to take care of the children. She tells him yes. As a pirate, she says that saving people is not her strong suit. Usopp agrees, saying they would just get charged with kidnapping anyway. Nami agrees, remembering Tashigi tearfully asking her to leave the children in her care, and adds that she is terrible at dealing with female Marines, as Tashigi is seen trying to write down the names of several disgruntled children. Nami goes on to say that she can't deal with female Marines because she feels too safe around them, since they remind her of her mother, Usopp remembering that her mother was a Marine. She adds that being looked after by a strong Marine woman is the best thing for them and Usopp agrees. Nami calls him a pushover and Usopp says she is one to talk.
Sanji has just finished preparing a huge pot of sea pork stew, one of the 99 recipes of Newkama Kenpo. He pours a bowl and serves it to Momonosuke; having heard that the boy had not eaten in days. Sanji advises him to start slowly eating the stew, which is just one of the many dishes presented to him. However, Momonosuke's samurai pride gets the better of him, and he declares that he is not hungry. He is about to throw away the stew when Sanji grabs him by the collar, saying he will not forgive anyone who wastes food, even a child. They are interrupted by Kin'emon, who has started eating, visibly in awe by how good the food is. He tells Momonosuke it is safe to eat and to not be shy about it, saying the person who made it can be completely trusted and there is nothing to worry about. Momonosuke starts eating, tears pouring down his face as he does so. Luffy thinks the food tastes so good that it made Momonosuke cry, but Sanji tells him it is because of something else, and wonders what happened. Everyone, Marines, former henchmen, children, and Straw Hat Pirates alike, is now lined up to receive some of Sanji's cooking. Sanji asks what happened to the whole dividing line idea, and the soldiers tell him it is a ceasefire. Hearing this, Zoro asks a Marine to get some alcohol from the tanker, with a child asking for juice, and the soldier happily obligues. 
Law tells Luffy that they need to leave now, since someone could easily attack them if they mess around the way they are. Luffy tells him he understands, and then shouts "Time to party!", much to Law's confusion. Everyone enjoys themselves at the party. Luffy and Brook eat with the samurai, and are joined by some children. Zoro happily toasts with one of the Marines. Chopper is in tears now that Mocha woke up, and Robin is nearby having soup with one of the children. The children entertain themselves by talking with Nami, climbing on Tashigi, and watching Usopp demonstrate Franky's many features. Some soldiers approach Smoker and tell him they are going back in the island. When Smoker asks why, they tell him they got Caesar to tell them Shinokuni's weakness, and that their comrades can still be saved. Caesar, with pliers on his cheeks and tears in his eyes, is asking why Smoker is still alive. Further back from the festivities, Smoker and Law are talking. Smoker admits he never thought Law would keep his end of the deal, as Law could have killed him on several occasions but did not. He also comments on his plan to take advantage of the Straw Hats and start something with one of the Four Emperors. Law replies he wonders who the person really being taken advantage of is, and has a flashback to the conversation with Luffy. He is telling Luffy that they will be going after Kaidou. Luffy tells him it does not matter the order as long as Shanks isn't first, since he is going to bring them all down eventually.

Luffy, the crew, and the children are all having fun while Law and Smoker talk. Law thinks back to when their alliance was formed, and they agreed to target Kaidou of the Four Emperors first. When Luffy says he plans to defeat all of the Four Emperors, Law tells him not to take them lightly, and that the chances of their plan to defeat Kaidou succeeding are slim.
After the feast the Straw Hats are about to set sail and leave. While they are seeing the children off, the G-5 Marines start insulting them and they put up a barricade so the children cannot see them. The children are crying and are sad as they remember how the Straw Hats helped, and they want to say good-bye. The Marines continue to insult them and say that Pirates are evil and the Marines are justice. The children keep on crying until Tashigi reprimands her subordinates, telling them to stop insulting the pirates, but they say that if they stop they will start to like them and then they start crying as well. Tashigi starts to laugh. Law and the Straw Hats start to head to the Thousand Sunny, and Zoro asks why Law is going with them, and Usopp tells him that Luffy got them into more trouble.
Doflamingo is seen flying, but notes that the "sky road" has ended. He sees the life raft from his tanker, with Baby 5 and Buffalo's severed heads on it and a Den Den Mushi that resembles Law. Law tells him that they have Caesar and says that since he cannot produce SMILE anymore his business partner Kaidou will get angry and Doflamingo will be killed. Doflamingo tries to negotiate with Law, but Law says that there is only one thing he can do: resign from being a Shichibukai. Law says that if it is not in the paper by tomorrow morning he will not give back Caesar then hangs up. Doflamingo seethes with rage, and curses Law.

Back on Punk Hazard, Caesar Clown's former minions go in a search for those who were petrified by Shinokuni. All a sudden, Doflamingo appears from the sky and throws Baby 5 and Buffalo's heads back on to their body. Before any of the G-5 soldiers could attack, Doflamingo uses Conqueror's Haki and knocks out a very large majority of them. Even then, the remaining soldier couldn't control themselves because of his devil fruit powers. Doflamingo even has some of the G-5 soldiers kill each other demanding the whereabouts of Law. Smoker steps into the fight, launching White Blow at Doflamingo. As the fight progressed, some G-5 soldiers decide to aid Smoker. Doflamingo moves to confront the soldiers but his attack hit Smoker instead, as he defended the soldiers, by being a shield to them and was severely injured.
Back on the Sunny, Luffy ask why are they going to Dressrosa. Law states he has business to attend to. All of a sudden, the sea current start to shift at an angle as they to slide down a sea slope. After they get out of rough water, Luffy explains to the crew about the alliance and the plan to kill Kaidou.
Back to Punk Hazard, Doflamingo is right about to unleash the final blow onto Smoker. Then, Kuzan appears and asks Doflamingo to step aside as he is his friend.

In spite of Kuzan's presence, Doflamingo attempts to kill Smoker but is frozen by Kuzan's Hie Hie no Mi ability. However he manages to break free as the ice hadn't reached his heart. Seeing nothing to gain from fighting Kuzan, Doflamingo decides to take his leave, but not before questioning Kuzan what he stands for due to rumors he had heard. Kuzan does not answer him and yells for a medic. Doflamingo collects Baby 5 and Buffalo and departs. Only then does Kuzan states that he never fully trusted the World Government, and believes that he can make a difference outside the Marines, hence why he is not enlisted in the Marines anymore. Smoker inquires about how he knew of Punk Hazard as one of the World Government's top secrets, worrying that Kuzan is involved with the criminal underworld.
The G-5 Marines, who were eavesdropping on the conversation, are yelled at by Kuzan, who asks them to clear off, now that they have treated Smoker. He then informs Smoker that he is doing nothing of the sort. He also warns Smoker to tell Sakazuki to keep an eye on Doflamingo as he poses the biggest threat to the Marines for now. For, even though Doflamingo's presence is not as obvious as the Kuja Pirates, his prowess as a pirate is quite exceptional. He tells Smoker to ask the Fleet Admiral to dispatch the Admirals as soon as possible. He also asks the G-5 marines not to reveal his presence there, to which they oblige.
Out on the sea, the crew is taking a breather. Usopp and Chopper worry furiously about Doflamingo coming to attack them. Kin'emon nearly gets into a duel with Zoro thinking he had robbed Ryuma's grave due to him having his sword, the Shusui, on him. Momonosuke is revealed to be taking a bath with Robin much to the envious anger of Sanji, Brook and Kin'emon.
When they confront Momonosuke over it, Nami punches all three for their supposed bullying. On being saved, he addresses Nami as a fair princess, which prompts Nami to hug him, much to the anger of the three perverts. Momonosuke rubs his face onto Nami's breasts on purpose, while grinning wickedly at the three. As the night goes on, most of the crew (Luffy, Zoro, Brook, Nami, Robin, Law and Momonosuke) sleep while others (Usopp, Chopper, Franky, Sanji, and Kin'emon) stay up looking after the Sunny.
Meanwhile, a mysterious individual in the sea watches the ship with the intent to steal Caesar Clown.

The Thousand Sunny is still in the water as a massive sea creature arises from the waters, carrying Breed. As the rest of the ship's residents sleep, Usopp, Franky, and Chopper keep on the lookout for Doflamingo, when all of a sudden, Breed and his army of Sea Lapahns attack the Thousand Sunny and everyone on board. In response, the Straw Hats and everyone else begin fighting off the Sea Laphans when Breed suddenly calls off the attack, revealing himself atop the Thousand Sunny. 
With Breed having kidnapped Caesar, Luffy attacks him, but he is stopped by a Kung Fu Dugong using a Busoshoku Haki-infused fist. Breed escapes with Caesar, while Law tries to use his abilities to stop him. When Law tries to use Room, he is interrupted by Sea Lapahns rocking the boat. When everyone turns around, they see a massive ship the size of an island, with Sanji noticing a Jolly Roger resembling Breed. Law, Luffy and Chopper decide to board the Shark Submerge III to go after Breed.
As they leave, Chopper askes Luffy if he recognizes the Sea Lapahns, noting they look identical to the Lapahns back on Drum Island. Law asks Chopper if that's why he joined them, proceeding to call him a tanuki. Chopper begins yelling at Law, but Law notices the Sea Lapahns entering Breed's ship. The pirates step out of the Shark Submerge III and into Breed's ship, with Law warning Luffy to be careful. Just then, Luffy decides to yell to Law that it's not as dark where he is. Law, Luffy and Chopper head towards the middle of the ship, but they are suddenly attacked by Sea Laphans, an Octopus Boxer, and other sea creatures.
They successfully fight off the sea creatures when the Kung Fu Dugong from earlier arrives and attempts to attack Luffy. Luffy defeats the Dugong, when the Dugong remembers losing to Luffy in a fight while in the Arabasta Kingdom. Excited, he jumps towards Luffy and begins hugging him. Meanwhile, Caesar is seen locked in a cage with Seastone handcuffs. He asks if anyone can free him as Breed enters the room. Caesar recognizes him and asks if he can be set free to see Doflamingo. However, Breed just tells him to stop whining and calls him worthless scum, causing Caesar to realize that Breed is not working under Doflamingo. Breed explains his plan to make a kingdom full of pets and that he needs Caesar's help to do it. However, Caesar refuses to help Breed, and Breed uses his ability on the scientist.
Elsewhere, Luffy is catching up with his Kung Fu Dugong friend and training him. As leader of the Sea Animal Pirates, the Dugong apologizes to Luffy for attacking him and explains his journey since leaving Arabasta. He explains that after arriving in the New World, Breed enslaved his crew. Suddenly, Breed began speaking into the intercom, commanding them to fall in line. Panicked, the Dugong tells them to run away quickly.
When Breed arrives and scolds the Dugong for not listening to him, he sees the Straw Hats and Law and explains that he is a pirate. He attacks Chopper with a green substance that, upon hitting him, transforms into a collar. Breed then commands Chopper to attack Luffy and Law, and Chopper eats a Rumble Ball, transforming into Monster Point. Powered up, he attacks his former allies, distracting them and allowing Breed to collar them as well.

The news of Doflamingo's resignation from the Seven Warlords of the Sea spreads quickly around the world. On one island, one man asks another if they had a weapons deal with the Donquixote Family. One of them is trying to call the family, but no one is answering at the other end. The first man proclaims that they need the weapons from him to put a war in their favor. Jewelry Bonney is seen reading about Luffy and Law's alliance, while eating a piece of pizza. Various people react to the news, assuming that the alliances will lead to no good, and that Doflamingo must have had his reasons for resigning. Among these readers is Jinbe.
At the Kid Pirates' base, the crew is reading the stories and wonder at how their alliance made the news. Someone asks who the journalist who reported the story, Absa, is. Apparently he had been getting huge news scoops all over the place lately. Kid says it does not matter how their alliance with the Hawkins Pirates got leaked. What bothers him is Luffy and Law teaming up. He correctly theorizes that Luffy and Law are also going after one of the Four Emperors, and wonders which one it is.
At Dressrosa, several Den Den Mushi are ringing off the hook. Doflamingo, however, is taking the call from Law and the Straw Hat Pirates. The Straw Hats are amazed he picked up, but are warned by Usopp to be quiet so he does not hear them. Luffy shouts his name into the receiver and declares he will be Pirate King, prompting a series of slaps from Usopp, but to no avail. Luffy continues, making sure he is correct in thinking that Doflamingo was Caesar's superior and that he was aware of what Caesar did to his subordinates and the children. He tells Doflamingo he will give Caesar back as per the deal, but begins to threaten Doflamingo if he does anything like that again and is about to finish when Doflamingo asks if it was two years since Ace's death.
He then remembers Luffy disappearing only to reappear two years later and asks what he has been up to. Luffy refuses to answer, but Doflamingo tells him he has been looking forward to meeting him. Doflamingo goes on to say that he has something that Luffy will most surely be interested in. Luffy instantly assumes Doflamingo is talking about meat and starts fantasizing as Law pushes his head away from the receiver, warning him not to get pulled into "his pace". He reclaims the conversation, asking Doflamingo not to go off on tangents, and saying he will get Caesar as agreed. Doflamingo reminds Law of what could happen if he gets tricked.
He then asks for confirmation that Caesar is alive and well. Law points the receiver toward Caesar as the bound scientist begins a tearful apology but is cut off as Law takes back the receiver. He tells Doflamingo that in eight hours they will deliver Caesar to the southeast shore of Green Bit, the deserted island just north of Dressrosa, and leave him there at 3 p.m., which is as far as Law is willing to go to accommodate Doflamingo. Doflamingo pretends to be hurt, saying he was looking forward to maybe having a drink and catching up with an old friend. Law responds by declaring their conversation over and hanging up.
Luffy remarks how he almost strayed from the objective, and Usopp remarks that Luffy's eyes (in the shape of meat) tell a different story. Sanji then realizes that they don't know how many men Doflamingo will bring. Law tells him that the number does not matter, and if everything goes according to plan, then Caesar will work as a successful decoy. Usopp understands Law's plan now. While Doflamingo is distracted, they will use that window to destroy the SMILE Factory. Law tells Usopp he is correct, but there is just one problem. He doesn't know where the factory is. Franky reassures him that the factory has to be massive and they should be able to see it easily, at which point he could just take care of it with his laser. This gets Usopp and Chopper excited. Law goes on to say that the difficulty in procuring intelligence was bothering him. Nami reasons that the factory is a high priority, so it could be that the information is top secret and not easily available.
Kin'emon asks that since Law mentioned Green Bit, whether or not they would be going to Dressrosa. Law assures him they will be arriving at Dressrosa. Luffy asks Law if he had ever been to Dressrosa. Law says no, since it is a country that Doflamingo controls entirely. Luffy gets excited, saying he smells another adventure nearing, and they will make a plan once they get there. He cannot wait to see what Dressrosa is like and hopes to go to Wano Country as well. Law asks him if he really thinks they could land without having a proper plan in place. Luffy asks Sanji what they are having for breakfast, and Sanji replies it is just sandwiches. Chopper asks for a cotton candy sandwich while Robin just asks for tea. Law tries to tell them that he does not like bread, but is shocked at how easily he was swept in by the crew's pace and ignored.
During the meal, Kin'emon starts telling the story behind why he went to Punk Hazard. He asks Law if he knew a place called Zou. Law is surprised, since that is where his crew is, and once the mission at Dressrosa was complete, he was planning on going to Zo. Kin'emon eagerly asks if he and Momonosuke could join them on their trip to Zo. Luffy wholeheartedly agrees, and decides they should go to Wano while they are at it. Law tries to interject, but Kin'emon continues his story. Kin'emon, Momonosuke, and two other samurai were on their way to Zo when they were shipwrecked. Kin'emon, Momonosuke, and one of the other samurai washed ashore on Dressrosa. Momonosuke continues, saying they were attacked the moment they landed in Dressrosa. They met some children on a ship who said they needed medical attention. Kin'emon got off the ship to help them, but it set sail right after that, trapping Momonosuke on board. Kin'emon proceeded to follow Momonosuke only because his comrade, Kanjuro, stayed behind to hold off the enemies. Kin'emon now vows he must return the favor and save Kanjuro. Franky and Chopper are deeply moved by Kin'emon's story and Luffy declares they will save him as well. Law yells at them not to get distracted.
The scene changes to the Marine Headquarters, where Commodore Brannew is giving a speech about how there must be seven Warlords, no more and no less, saying their loyalty and power is supposed to serve as a deterrent to other pirates. He lists off the current roster: The strongest swordsman in the world, Dracule "Hawk-eyes" Mihawk, the depraved king of Dressrosa, "Heavenly Yaksha" Donquixote Doflamingo, the human weapon, "Tyrant" Bartholomew Kuma, the empress of Amazon Lily, "Pirate Empress" Boa Hancock, the rookie behind the Rocky Port Incident, the "Surgeon of Death" Trafalgar Law, the leader of the Pirate Dispatch organization, the living legend "Star Clown" Buggy, and the mysterious one that he had mentioned earlier. That made seven people until the story broke that morning that Doflamingo had resigned. He adds that Law's position is in jeopardy as well depending on his intentions. Brannew goes on to say that the Warlords are supposed to be held in the same kind of esteem as the Marines and Four Emperors, but is cut off by Sakazuki, who tells Brannew that he has made his point. He asks if Brannew thinks Law and the Straw Hats can move freely, adding that Smoker filed his report yesterday, and that the matter will be cleared up within a day, saying that Fujitora has been dispatched to deal with them.
On Dressrosa, someone asks Doflamingo not to make hasty decisions. Baby 5 asks a little girl where Trebol is. The old woman playing cards wonders what Doflamingo is thinking, and another subordinate declares he is ready to fight if the Marines show up, while the old man replies that his orders are absolute. Baby 5 then spots Trebol high above on a tower, commenting on how funny everyone looks in pandemonium and wonders if the outside world is anything like what he is seeing. He comes down and asks Baby 5 if the rumors about her latest fiance getting killed were true. Baby 5 tells him he is invading her personal space, and that there is a fine line between persistence and annoyance. Trebol then asks if she likes it when he is persistently annoying. Baby 5 tells him to shut up and that Doflamingo asked for him, adding that he should bring "that" with him, and reminds him again about personal space. He tells Baby 5 she needs to be more discrete in picking her men, and then asks her to marry him, adding that he was just joking. Baby 5 wonders if he actually needs her, prompting the two old people playing cards to tell her not to go there.
In another room, Doflamingo is praising Diamante for his supervision of the Colosseum. Diamante shrugs it off and says that Doflamingo's royal charisma is the real reason behind colosseum's success. Doflamingo insists it is all due to Diamante's know-how, and calls Diamante the savior. Diamante tries to rebuke this, and Doflamingo is about to agree this time, only for Diamante to change his mind and take all the credit. Trebol then drips down from the ceiling, saying he has the thing Doflamingo asked for. Doflamingo then reminds him about personal space before taking the box and telling Trebol to take a seat.
Doflamingo gives the box to Diamante, who tries to argue that he is unfit to hold the box until Doflamingo agrees with him again, at which point he changes his mind and takes it. Doflamingo opens the box and takes out a Devil Fruit, saying he really did have something that Luffy would be interested in, the Mera Mera no Mi, saying there is no way Luffy would let anyone have his brother's power.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats and company have just arrived at Dressrosa, and are more than excited to disembark.

The Thousand Sunny docks at Dressrosa, in between boulders. Luffy strikes his characteristic pose, loudly declaring their arrival. Franky is eager to locate and destroy the factory. Luffy tries to ride Momonosuke like earlier on Punk Hazard, but Momonosuke claims he doesn't know how to fly, and can't remember doing it. He says even if he could, he would never do such a dreadful thing while vaguely recalling a dark hand reaching out to him and someone asking him for his name. The pair proceed to fight over whether Momonosuke a coward or not, in spite of his insistence that a samurai fears nothing. Luffy proclaims he doesn't care about samurai, and states that he is going to be Pirate King one day, while Momo bites his head and counters by saying he is going be a shogun of Wano one day. Brook sighs and reminds Luffy that he is fighting an eight year old. Kin'emon steps in and scolds his son, telling him to respect the man who saved his life. Kin'emon tells him that the samurai of Wano have high pride, but also tells Luffy to not be so caught up in arguing an eight year old, but the two continue to stick their tongues at each other. Kin'emon offers to provide disguises for the groups time on the island. He claims the men all wear shirts and suits, while the women are all naked, which pleases Sanji and infuriates Nami. 
Law gives Nami a Vivre Card that points towards Zo, in case something happens to them. Law shows the Straw Hats a map of Dressrosa that one of his crew members drew. The team handing Caesar over to Doflamingo will pass through Dressrosa and head north, over a long bridge, to Green Bit; apparently, one cannot get there by ship. Law, Usopp, and Robin (with Caesar) are the team heading to Green Bit. Meanwhile, Nami, Momo, Brook and Chopper will look after the Sunny while the rest will head to destroy the factory.  
As Sanji, Kin'emon, Franky, Zoro and Luffy walk around the island, they witness the things for which Dressrosa is renowned: the beautiful fields of flowers, the scent of delicious food, the tireless, passionate dances of women and, to the entire group's stunned surprise, animate humanoid toys that live alongside the people. A doll-man has his arm torn off and stolen by a dog, while a tin soldier remarks that he recognizes the Straw Hats from the newspaper. The team then hears a scream as someone gets stabbed in the street Zoro asks if there is a slasher roaming the street, but a toy soldier explains that the women on the island are of such passion that they stab any man caught cheating on them, which stuns Luffy's team again. 
The group is in the port town of Acacia. Kin'emon disguises them all in black suits, shirts, and fake beards as Luffy declares that it is time to eat. A bind man descends some stairs, walking towards the Straw Hats. Zoro places his hand by his side, ready to draw his sword, but the man simply asks for directions and moves on. At a restaurant, Sanji remarks that the city seems too calm for a nation whose king just resigned this morning. Luffy tries to ask someone nearby for info, but Sanji stops him, reminding him his face was on the newspaper just that morning. A toy monkey waiter brings the group's food and Sanji inquires about the name of his soup. The waiter them that the island has a legend about fairies, and that they have been sighted there for centuries. 
The restaurant also has a casino, with tables across the room from the eating area. The blind man is on a winning streak at one of the roulette tables. Eventually a bunch of crooks come out and begin taking advantage of the blind man, telling him lies about the roulette results of the game, stating that the ball has landed on the wrong color. The punks state amongst themselves that with Buffalo absent from the bar, they can cheat as much as they please. The other customers are displeased, commenting on the dishonor done to Doflamingo's name by their actions. The blind man ultimately bets all of his chips.

After going "all in" in roulette, the thugs once again lie to the blind man about the results of the game, however this time Luffy reveals the actual result. The blind man ends up engaging in a battle with the thugs, ultimately leaving a massive hole in the floor of the restaurant with the thugs lying defeated within. Everyone wonders in awe about the blind man's powers. Sanji says he has an ability, and Zoro wonders what ability it is. As the blind man walks off, he offers to pay for the damages. The cashier thinks she recognizes the man, but before she can say more, the man excuses himself. Luffy asks the man what he is. The man tells him that it would be wise for both their sakes to not tell Luffy his identity. Sanji is confused about what the man meant by that, and wonders if the man has some degree of fame. Zoro agrees that he is no regular person.
Suddenly people start realizing that their possessions are gone. A bag, a watch, a jacket, and a wallet were all exclaimed to be stolen. The patrons realize that it must have happened when the old man kicked up dust earlier. Sanji wonders if the man robbed everyone. Zoro notices he is missing a sword, and to his horror, Kin'emon realizes that the missing sword is Shusui. A nearby puppet tells them that fairies took everyone's possessions. When Zoro asks if the fairies are a group of thieves, the puppet simply responds that fairies are fairies, and all one can do is laugh it off and move on. The invisible fairies have been the guardians of Dressrosa since the old days, and the people have no choice but to accept whatever they do. Zoro gets angry and tells the puppet it is not a joke, and Kin'emon agrees, saying it is Wano Country's national treasure. Zoro disagrees, saying it is his sword, and Kin'emon declares his intention to duel Zoro and take back Shusui for Wano Country. Zoro is not intimidated by this. Just then, Zoro notices something move. He looks at a window to see someone climbing out it with a bundle of items. Tied to that bundle, is Shusui. Zoro runs after the thief, Sanji follows Zoro so he does not get lost, and Kin'emon follows in turn, refusing to let Shusui get away. Luffy tries to run after them too, but is stopped by Franky. Franky tells Luffy he has a plan. Since they are dealing with lowlifes, Franky asks Luffy to let him take the lead.
They go outside with one of the thugs from the roulette table and start interrogating him. The subordinate tells them that he was ordered to track some samurai, but he has no idea where they are or if they were even captured. He also does not know anything about the SMILE Zoans either, or a factory of any kind. Luffy remarks how he knows nothing about his own crew. Franky then orders the man to tell him where his superiors are. He tells him that everyone is busy, but that they were all called to the coliseum, including himself. He tells them that there is a big event at Corrida Coliseum. The guy goes on to say that some amazing prize was offered. Luffy instantly thinks the man is talking about the meat that he thought Doflamingo was talking about earlier, only for Franky to say he just said it was something he'd want, not meat.
The scene changes to Corrida Coliseum. A soldier standing at the entrance, barring children from entering and shooting at any that try to do so. Inside the stadium, the announcer is building up the crowd, saying that no word can rightly describe the awesomeness of what they are about to see. The prize is truly very rare, a fruit eaten by the man who died at Marineford two years ago, his power gave him legendary status as the revered "Fire Fist Ace". The announcer pulls back the cloth on the display next to him to reveal the Mera Mera no Mi, declaring that it will go to the winner. The audience is momentarily aghast, but starts cheering again right away. The blind man from earlier is seen in the crowd.
Back outside the restaurant, Luffy and Franky have just learned that Ace's fruit is being offered as the tournament prize, much to Luffy's surprise.

The announcer pulls back the cloth on the display next to him to reveal the Mera Mera no Mi, declaring that it will go to the winner. The audience is momentarily aghast, but starts cheering again right away. The announcer continues, saying that the king has brought out warriors from all over the New World. But to get this prize is no easy task, but these are no ordinary fighters. He then gestures to a television screen as introduces the participants from the Donquixote family: Senor Pink, Dellinger, Lao G, and Machvise. He then introduces the current operator of the coliseum, Diamante. The crowd is now bursting with excitement, eager for the matches to start.
The man tells Luffy and Franky how valuable the Mera Mera no Mi is, and Luffy declares he wishes to possess it. Franky comments that this may be a ploy by Donquixote Doflamingo, but it's not a situation they should pass. They decide to run off to enter the colosseum. 
Meanwhile, Zoro is running around looking for what stole his sword. Sanji is seen running after him, but he gets distracted by a beautiful dancer. After Sanji notices Zoro ran off, she approaches him. She hugs him tightly, hiding both of them from soldiers that run past, looking for her. Violet says she stabbed a man, so she is wanted. Sanji swoons from this thought, and Violet asks him to be his bodyguard until they travel to the next city. She asks to help him kill a man. 
Luffy and Franky arrive at the Corrida Colosseum, and they gaze upon it. They then see police officers chasing a One-legged Soldier, before he inserts one leg into the Colosseum. By law, the police cannot interfere if he's in there. The soldier jumps down and offers Luffy and Franky to help with their luggage. He then tells Luffy of the competition and Luffy prepares to sign up to get Ace's devil fruit.

As Luffy is about to register for the competition, Franky tells him he can fight however he likes, but he has to promise not to reveal his name to anyone. Luffy agrees, but forgets and starts signing with his real name until Franky stops him in time by punching him in the head. Luffy enters the competition as the 556th contestant "Lucy" and is led to the dressing area. Franky stays behind with Thunder Soldier and starts questioning him about the Donquixote family, the factory and whether the toy soldier was born in Dressrosa. Thunder Soldier seems unhappy that Rebecca has entered the competition.
As Luffy prepares for the tournament, a warrior named Spartan notices Lucy and thinks he's an embarrassment to the competition due to his size and attempts to take him out. However, Luffy easily defeats him, much to the shock of the others present.
After knocking out Spartan, everyone is astonished. Blaming Luffy for the incident, one of the referees tries to throw Luffy out of the competition, but luckily he is defended by the Chinjao Family, who informs the referee that it was Spartan that started the fight. Luffy thanks them, but one of the Chinjao family members rejects his apology and tries to attack Luffy but is stopped by another member.
Then some of the other competitors notice that they are some big names from a lot of countries and they wonder if the countries have sent representatives to try and win the precious treasure, the Mera Mera no Mi. Some of the big names are: the Funk Brothers, Dagama and Elizabello the Second from the Prodence kingdom, "Neck Slasher" Suleiman, former bounty hunters Abdullah and Jeet, the fake massacre adventurist, the ruler Oolumbus and "Hyena" Bellamy, the Donquixote family endorsement. The first round is revealed to be a battle royale with four blocks and over 550 participants, though only four will advance. Luffy finds out he is in Block C and that he is allowed to pick any armor or arms he wants besides guns. He chooses a viking warrior look, but finds out that he is over the weight restriction and has to lose some armor.
The episode ends with the "pirate prince" emerging to Lucy, his name is Cavendish.

As Cavendish attempts to talk to Lucy, he is ignored due to Lucy's attention to him focusing on the weight limit. Luffy then asks why is everyone almost naked, to which the prince explains that the spectators want to see blood and that in the arena you can see humanity's true colors exposed.
The prince then asks Luffy who he is. Luffy tells him his real name and exclaims that he is going to be the Pirate King, drawing attention from the crowd. However, they see that his name tag states Lucy and assume he mispronounced his own name. The prince laughs and says that if he really was Luffy, he would take his head here and now, because when he came to the New World about three years ago he made a big name for himself but his fame was overshadowed by the Battle of Marineford, the Eleven Supernovas and the Blackbeard Pirates. Thus, he carries a grudge against any who is in "the Worst Generation".
He then is ignored again by Luffy, who notices a statue and his resemblance to it in his armor. Rebecca, a female gladiator, tells Luffy that it is a statue of Kyros, the mightiest gladiator in the history of the Corrida Colosseum, stating that he won 3000 consecutive matches and that he only took a single blow throughout them all, but that he retired 20 years ago and that no one knows his true identity. She wonders if he truly existed and how the bronze statue appeared one day out of the blue. She then declares her intention of winning the Mera Mera no Mi and killing Doflamingo. The announcer proclaims that the first block battle royale is over and the winner is revealed to be Jesus Burgess, the captain of the first ship of Blackbeard's crew.
Seeing this, Franky begins to rethink if Luffy would have an easy time in the tournament and realizes he is in for a struggle. Thunder Soldier then takes Franky to a private place so they can discuss Franky's 'job'.
An unknown Marine starts to panic, stating that they need reinforcements because the competitors' power surpassed his expectations. The adviser of the Barto Club, the Missionary Gambia, gets on the bad side of Vice Admiral Maynard, who is there undercover as a competitor, and gets taken out. At this point we see Bartolomeo watching from the shadows.
It is time for the Block B battle royal and the announcer shouts that it is time to let the athletes in. The blind man and a young Marine leave the Colosseum and discuss what they plan to do about the current situation. It is then that the blind man wears his admiral coat and is revealed to be the famous Marine Admiral Fujitora. Before Block B starts, Luffy is confronted by Bellamy. 

The episode starts out with Franky in the stands, exclaiming his shock to see such a powerful competitor as Jesus Burgess, thinking that Luffy would win the tournament easily. He then gets up to leave and do his job, but the Thunder Soldier says that he wants to go too, much to the annoyance of Franky. 
At a northeastern cafe the members of the group responsible for exchanging Caesar are asking about Green Bit, but are told to avoid it saying that there are fighting fish which are very dangerous. He also says that no one who used the iron bridge to Green Bit has ever come back. Usopp and Caesar plead with Law asking to change the drop off location, but Law refuses. Law is more worried about the lack of panic even though Doflamingo, their king, has just resigned, but his worries are cut short by the arrival of CP0, the world's strongest intelligence agency. 
Elsewhere Zoro is seen chasing the "fairy" that stole his sword to the top of a building and takes it back, only to go over the side and fall to the ground with the 'fairy' falling with him. Meanwhile Kin'emon gets lost and is surrounded by enemies who seem to have captured Kanjuro. Also staying true to his promise Sanji beats a mysterious sniper much to the pleasure of Violet. Back at the ship, the group protecting the Thousand Sunny are playing Shogun, when suddenly they hear a mysterious noise. 
Back at the colosseum Bartolomeo enters the arena, while one of the referees asks if he has seen Capman, who is shown to be defeated. Bartolomeo walks into the arena as the announcer is introducing him. He calls Bartolomeo cruel and crazy, citing an incident involving him skewering pirates and broadcasting it, and holds the number one spot for the person people most want to disappear. Bartolomeo is then introduced through a character box, listing his bounty at 150,000,000. Bartolomeo raises his hands and declares that he is sending everyone to hell.

Bartolomeo raises his hands and declares that he is sending everyone to hell. The crowd starts booing, telling him to get lost. He responds by making faces and then throws an object into the crowd. One of the workers asks what he thinks he is doing. People in the audience start to run and duck for cover after someone screams that he threw a bomb. Everyone stops when they hear the oddly normal sound the "bomb" makes when it lands. It turns out that Bartolomeo simply threw a ball at them. Dagama sarcastically commends him for his great job winning over the crowd, calling him a thug. Bartolomeo says he does not care what they think of him. 
The announcer then introduces another contestant, calling him the opposite of Bartolomeo; a man with only the utmost devotion to Doflamingo who swore allegiance to their king after bringing him a pillar made of gold from another country. The crowd gets excited with anticipation, knowing whom the announcer is talking about. Thanks to him, every country that's insulted Dressrosa by calling them pirates has been destroyed by this man, known as the murderous bomb of Dressrosa. And now this man has a one in a lifetime opportunity.
As Bellamy walks out into the light of the arena, the announcer tells the crowd that if Bellamy wins the tournament today, he will be promoted to a high executive position in the Donquixote Family, and is one of the favorites to win the tournament. He finishes his introduction by presenting Bellamy the Hyena. Cavendish looks at Bellamy somewhat jealously, remarking on his large following. 
The announcer swings a wooden mallet down on the starting bell and the match gets under way. Bellamy is trying to decide where to begin when he sees several fighters get thrown back. Tank Lepanto, Elizabello II, and Dagama discuss if they should take out Bellamy first, to which the tactician says yes, as they must take out the stronger fighters while they still have numbers on their side. Bellamy asks what they are doing, and Bartolomeo remarks that the battle isn't really a battle royale anymore. Dagama tells them they can complain all they want when they are dead. All that matters is who the last person standing is. 
Block B continues, and the audience realizes that Dagama has formed an alliance with other competitors. The announcer announces the news to the entire Colosseum, and tells the audience that this action is not against the rules, and announces who the mastermind of the operation is. Dagama thinks to himself that there is no way for his kingdom to lose this, due to the immense strength of their king, Elizabello II. 
Dagama then asks Elizabello how his preparations are going, and Elizabello replies by saying that he is ready to go anytime. Dagama then tells his men to defend the king, and to continue thinning the numbers in order to ensure their victory. Bellamy then mocks Tank Lepanto for teaming up with Dagama and Elizabello, due to his status as defense captain of Dressrosa. Lepanto responds by saying that money is what makes the world go round, and that dreams are unimportant, because he prefers to collect the easiest money he can possibly acquire. Bellamy laughs, and attacks Lepanto. In the midst of their clash, three other competitors fall into the lake. The three fighters are disqualified, and then the announcer tells the audience what is inside the lake; a school of little flying fish. The crowd cheers as the flying fish show themselves. The announcer then goes onto say that there's no way anybody can emerge from the fight unscathed, because it is the Corrida Colosseum. 
Meanwhile, in the participants viewing area, Cavendish explains to Luffy why people call Bartolomeo "The Cannibal". He goes on to say this is due to his mockery of others, and says that Bartolomeo is one of the cheeky kids who rose to fame after him. Luffy then states that this is exciting, and asks Cavendish what his name is. Cavendish replies by saying that he is Cavendish, and Luffy then asks him what he has in his hand (but calls him Cabbage instead). Cavendish replies by saying that he is checking on his bounty posters of The Worst Generation, and says that he will probably need to get new ones soon due to all the knife marks he has left on them. Luffy tells him that he should probably just forgive them, but Cavendish replies that he just wants to kill them. Cavendish then goes onto say that he thought at least one would be there, due to the prize offered. He then states that they may be hiding their face, as Burgess did before, and says that he will wait for them among the survivors. 
Suddenly, Don Chinjao interrupts the conversation, and comments on the view of the match from the area. Chinjao then asks Luffy how Garp is doing, and refers to him as Straw Hat Luffy. Luffy then asks him if he knows his grandpa, which causes Cavendish to become shocked. Luffy then realizes that he has revealed his identity. Chinjao explains that a long time ago, Garp nearly killed him, and that he has decided to hold a grudge against his descendants. This causes Luffy to say nothing more than "what?"

In the participant's viewing area, Don Chinjao tells Luffy and Cavendish about Garp's reputation in the past, and how he is considered a demon by many pirates, and about how Garp gave him scars. Cavendish questions Luffy about his true identity, but Luffy tells him that he isn't Luffy, and is Lucy. Chinjao states that he will take out his grudge from Garp on Luffy, and Luffy replies by telling Chinajo to take it out on Garp instead. Cavendish then asks Luffy if he is really Garp's grandson, and Luffy replies by saying that he is Lucy. Cavendish then tries to pulls out his sword, and tells Luffy that if he is really Straw Hat Luffy, then he will cut him down right there. Chinjao then states that he wishes he had discovered the identity of Monkey D. Dragon earlier, so that Luffy would have never been born. Chinjao attacks Luffy as he says this.
Nearby, other gladiators notice Chinajo rampaging against Luffy. Luffy tells Chinjao to hold on, and Cavendish approaches Luffy and tries to pull off his beard. The spectators then state that Chinjao is not a joke, and that he once had a bounty of over five hundred million Bellies. Chinjao then prepares to attack Cavendish and Luffy. Cavendish draws his sword, and nearby gladiators identify it as Durandal, one of the world's greatest blades. Cavendish states that Luffy is his prey, but Chinjao ignores him and charges at him and Luffy. Cavendish blocks Chinjao with Durandal, and nearby gladiators note that the sword pierced his head. The gladiators then notice that Chinjao stopped the blade, and that it actually did not pierce his head. The gladiators then exclaim that the fighters cannot be human, due to their extraordinary strength. Chinjao then continues to relentlessly attack Cavendish and Luffy, and Cavendish says that they cannot cut corners if they want to take him down. Luffy then gets angry, and knocks Chinjao into the ground.
The gladiators then exclaim that Luffy has kicked Chinjao's ass, and question his identity. The gladiators are then shocked when Chinjao stands back up, unscathed from the encounter. The gladiators then speak about the myths that surround Chinjao, including him breaking an arctic continent with a headbutt. Luffy is also surprised that his attack did no damage. Chinjao then states that even though Cavendish and Luffy have talent, it is too soon for them to be facing him. Cavendish then fully believes that the disguised Lucy is Luffy, and Luffy replies by telling him to leave him alone. Cavendish then states that Luffy is good at getting people to hate him, due to stealing people's popularity and being born the grandson of Garp. Luffy then says that he did not know any of those things, but then corrects himself by saying that he is Lucy. Chinjao then tells Cavendish that if his intention is to get in his way, then he will just take him down as well.
Suddenly, Sai and Boo show up, and tell Chinjao that this is as far as he should go for now. They state that he will be disqualified if he does this now, and grab him in order to stop him. Chinjao tells them to get their hands off him, and also says that he has finally found the bloodline of Garp. Sai and Boo respond by saying that if he is disqualified now, they will be unable to achieve their real objective for which they joined the tournament. The Colosseum guards show up, and tell the group that if they are fighting, then they will kick them out. Cavendish notices this, and says that he does not care if he gets kicked out, but then he notices that Luffy has disappeared. Sai and Boo then tell Chinjao that he can kill Luffy in Block C, since they are in the same block together. Cavendish then says that he will not let Luffy get away, and states that he is going to take his life before the match even starts.
A few of the spectators then question what they have heard, which is that Straw Hat Luffy is there. Luffy is then seen hanging on the side of a window, and he remembers how he promised Franky he would not let himself get caught. The announcer of the battle announces that Tank Lepanto has been defeated by Abdullah and Jeet. Jeet laughs, and the audience states that the two of them always play dirty tricks, and call out Lepanto's name. The announcer states that in such a short time, over one hundred contestants have been eliminated, and that only thirty contestants remain. Dagama then states that as long as his kingdom has the king's punch, they will win. Blue Gilly attacks Ricky, and Abdullah and Jeet taunt the other gladiators.
Meanwhile, elsewhere in the block, Abdullah and Jeet are fighting other competitors. While Abdullah attacks them from the front, Jeet attacks them from the back, which causes one of the fighters to tell Jeet that what they are doing is cheating. The two then stand beside one another, and Abdullah states how much he loves the sound of fighting.
Elsewhere in the block, a fighter tells Hack that fish-men should not put their noses where they do not belong. He goes on to say that Hack should not be there, because he is a monster. The fighter continues to mock Hack, but then Hack tells him that instead of speaking with his mouth, he should speak with his fists. The fighter then attacks Hack with his spiked mace, but Hack is undamaged from it, and knocks the fighter back with a four thousand tile punch. Hack then goes onto say even though the fish-men place their faith in Jinbe (who is also Hack's friend), the fish-men should also fight back with fists.
Elsewhere in the block, a gladiator notices that an unfamiliar face is there. They point out his strength, and say that they have never seen him in a battle before. They go on to point out that he is only using one sword, unlike the other gladiators who use both sword and shield, and that he must be a samurai from Wano Country. This gladiator is revealed to be Ricky, and he attacks the men, and tells them that they are too slow.
Abdullah and Jeet defeat Tank using dirty methods. Suddenly, Bellamy appears and attacks the duo. He is able to defeat them, and the audience exclaims how cruel and atrocious Bellamy's actions are. The audience then points out Hack, and say that he is strong. They point out that he is using Fish-Man Karate, and that he is cool, because of all the one hit knock outs he has achieved in the battle. The announcer then announces Hack's feat in the tournament, and also notices someone on the other side. The audience wonder what this person is doing. The announcer then asks Bartolomeo how long he plans on annoying people. while the audience bays for someone to beat him. The announcer then points out how Bartolomeo is peeing into the lake in the middle of the battle, and says that never in the history of the Colosseum has this happened. The announcer also wonders if there is anybody that will stop Bartolomeo's silliness.
Suddenly, the announcer spots Hack approaching Bartolomeo. Hack states that there are people who actually are taking the tournament seriously, and also says to forgive him for attacking from the behind. Hack prepares to attack Bartolomeo, and Bartolomeo tells him not to attack a defenseless man. The announcer says that Hack is the arena's hero, and the audience cheers him on. Hack attacks Bartolomeo, but his hand breaks in the process. The audience is shocked, and the announcer questions how Hack is the one on the ground, Luffy is shown to be shocked, and the announcer questions what Bartolomeo really is.

Bartolomeo kicks Hack and knocks him out, eliminating him from the competition, this astonishes the crowd including the commentator who apparently was cheering for Hack to win. The commentator then gets control of himself and announces that the B block battle is still anyone's game and that there are 24 participants left, some of the combatants still left standing being: Bellamy the Hyena, Bartolomeo the cannibal, Dagama, King Elizabello II the fighting king, Blue Gilly, and Ricky.
Dagama then announces to Blue Gilly that everyone is wounded and that now is the time, Blue Gilly then kicks Ricky in the helmet, and wounds him gravely. Blue Gilly questions Ricky as to "what he is trying to cut, with a dull sword" while Ricky lies on the ground commenting that he can not win against time, and that he hates the cheers and that he hates Doflamingo. Blue Gilly and Dagama then attack the gladiators that Dagama had bribed into helping him from behind, betraying them, Dagama then tries to double cross Blue Gilly and attack him from behind, but Blue Gilly notices and counters with a kick that knocks Dagama out of the ring and promptly gets attacked by a fighting fish as insult to injury. Blue Gilly knew never to trust a schemer like him and was watching his back the whole time, earning him the praise from the audience.
Meanwhile Bellamy has been fighting Bartolomeo and is on death's door, been severely outclassed by him, Bellamy then comments that Bartolomeo must have eaten a Devil Fruit. The spectators noticed that Bellamy was mysteriously hurt after he attacked Bartolomeo just like Hack, while Luffy still hanging from a window sill shouts encouragement at Bellamy.
Meanwhile a group of competitors have ganged up on king Elizabello II, while Blue Gilly taunts him saying that he is now unprotected to which the king retorts back to Blue Gilly with a threat of his own. The crowd is now very curious as to what will happen next, as they have heard about the power of Elizabello's punches, and they decide to run away when he starts preparing to punch. As Elizabello is about to punch, Blue Gilly quickly moves in with the intent to break the king's neck while Bellamy has managed to catch Bartolomeo with his hands, when he felt the power eliminating from the king and turns around to sees in horror that he and Bartolomeo are directly in the path of the punch. With the power channeled in an hour of focus, Elizabello unleashes his punch directly in front of Blue Gilly, breaking the sound barrier and releasing an unstoppable shock wave, destroying anything in its path and sent everyone in the ring flying and out of the fight. The punch alone generated a blinding light that prevents anyone from seeing whats happening. Outside of the colosseum, by passers stop to look at the rising smoke and the loud sound that came from the colosseum. As the smoke clears, the shaken commentator crawled out of the safety of his stand and announces to the audience that every fighter except for Elizabello II had been knocked out.
Before he could announce the winner, one of the audience shouts out there is still someone else standing, and the smoke clears revealing a transparent barrier protecting not only the audience from the brunt of the punch but Bartolomeo as well. Bartolomeo then reveals that he ate the Bari Bari no Mi, a devil fruit that allows him to create a barrier when he crosses his fingers, he then attacks Elizabello with a barrier which proves to be powerful enough to injure him and sent him skidding near the edge of the ring. With the last remaining fighter knocked out, the commentator announces Bartolomeo as the winner of the B block battle royale which disappoints the crowd.
Meanwhile inside the corridor leading to the seats, Thunder Soldier reveals to Franky that he is also planning to destroy the factory. Franky demands to know the location of it but Thunder Soldier tells him they must first free the workers and that their tactic is important as it will bring the fall of Dressrosa. Thunder Soldier then states that if Franky is seriously going to stand up against Doflamingo then he will explain the history of Dressrosa.

After the B block battle royale has finished Bellamy is being taken away on a stretcher and as he passes Luffy he comments that he has not changed a bit, Luffy on the other hand disagrees and that he has changed. Bellamy laughs at this and tells Luffy that he is the one that has changed, commenting on his exceptional Haki, he then tells Luffy that the whole rooting for him thing has crushed his pride and calls him "Straw Hat", which gets the attention of Bartolomeo who is standing a couple feet away. 
At the bridge to Green Bit the "Caesar Exchange Team" is making their way across the iron bridge with 45 minutes left until the agreed upon time to exchange Caesar Clown. Unfortunately for them they are being attacked by a school of Fighting Fish who are so big that the iron bridge bends easily under their weight, which prompts Robin to wonder if they really are fish to which Law responds that they are, although Usopp disagrees and Caesar says they are the same as sea monsters. But Law does not seem very agitated by the fish and comments that it is not a problem that Usopp and Robin cannot handle, which confuses Usopp who believes that since Law is a Shichibukai he should be the one dealing with the fish. The school of fish starts to attack the bridge again forcing Robin and Usopp to deal with them, much to the happiness of Law, but realizing that there are too many fish to deal with they decide to make a run for it. Law also tells Usopp to take off Caesar's handcuffs so that he may help out, stating that Caesar will not run away as long as he is still in possession of Caesar's heart, which angers Caesar. Caesar helps out by defeating some of the fish while the other three run, Usopp then asks Law again as to why he is not fighting to which Law responds that he has to save all his energy for his fight with Doflamingo much to Caesar's shock. 
The group then encounters some more bad luck as the next part of the bridge has been destroyed by the fish as well as the fact that it is surrounded by fog and what is worse another fighting fish jumps out of the water to attack the group. Fortunately the fish is stopped by some kind of fishing net much to the surprise of the group, voices are then heard on the other side of the bridge which makes the group wonder who it may be and Usopp calls out asking if anyone is on the other side and if they can help them get across. This however surprises and scares off the mysterious strangers, Law then makes Caesar use his gas powers to fly the group over to Green Bit much to the annoyance of Caesar. 
Upon arriving at Green Bit the group can not find any traces of the people who captured the fish and notice both the large number of wrecked ships and the giant, lush forest of Green Bit. Law then obverses that the southeast beach is just up ahead while Usopp notices a Marine ship that had crashed into the island and Robin uses her binoculars to confirm that the ship had damaged the plants and trees just recently. Robin also notes that the ship itself is not very damaged and Caesar starts to get paranoid that the exchange has been compromised and complains to Law who is wondering how to make his next move. Caesar begs Law to call off the exchange as the Marines are there and he is an enemy of the Marines, but Law refuses, noting that since he is an ally of the Straw Hat Pirates the Marines are now his enemy too and that he will need Robin and Usopp's skills to check out the forest and make sure there is nothing strange going on. 
Meanwhile, Sanji is still with Violet and finds some of Doflamingo's men who attempt to attack Violet, to which Sanji easily defeats them. Just then, Violet takes advantage of Sanji's affections and cuff him, revealing her true nature.

Upon arriving at Green Bit, the group can not find any traces of the people who captured the fish and notice both the large number of wrecked ships and the giant, lush forest of Green Bit. Law then obverses that the southeast beach is just up ahead while Usopp notices a Marine ship that had crashed into the island and Robin uses her binoculars to confirm that the ship had damaged the plants and trees just recently. Robin also notes that the ship itself is not very damaged and Caesar starts to get paranoid that the exchange has been compromised and complains to Law who is wondering how to make his next move. Caesar begs Law to call off the exchange as the Marines are there and he is an enemy of the Marines, but Law refuses, noting that since he is an ally of the Straw Hat Pirates, the Marines are now his enemy too and that he will need Robin and Usopp's skills to check out the forest and make sure there is nothing strange going on.
Robin and Usopp then leave to search the forest with 14 minutes until the exchange takes place with Robin taking the lead and Usopp trailing behind. The two then notice a bunch of Marines in a clearing talking with an unknown person, the Marines ask if he is a Straw Hat to which the unknown person comments that he is not and that his name is Leo. Leo then asks whether the Marines are good guys or bad guys, to which the Marines respond that they are good guys, prompting Leo to ask that they lay down their weapons. Unfortunately the Marines do not and in the blink of an eye they are stripped down to their underwear. The Marines run away while Robin uses a new technique to try and capture the culprits, whom she believes are dwarves. 
Meanwhile, at Dressrosa's port city, Acacia, Zoro is running with a dwarf named Wicca. Wicca was the "fairy" that had stolen Zoro's sword and, because of an ankle injury that she got from being chased by Zoro, she is relying on him for transportation. While Zoro is relying on Wicca for directions due to his lack of an internal compass, Wicca also informs Zoro of several things she has found out during her recon mission such as the fact that Doflamingo's crew is on their way to attack the Straw Hat's ship.
Back in Dressrosa, Sanji is seen beaten and bloodied up, surrounded by Doflamingo's men, while Violet reveals that she fooled Sanji and actually knew who he was all along. She comments that she had heard that Sanji was weak to women, but did not realize it was this bad. It is then discovered that Violet is actually an assassin for Doflamingo and a part of the Trebol Army. Sanji however, refuses to believe that Violet is a bad person and says she has a kind heart but is somewhere she does not want to be because she was tempted by some bad people. This apparently angers Violet and she kicks Sanji in the face, telling him to stop being in love. She believes Sanji is lying to her and is actually suppressing his anger while searching for a way out.
Violet then demonstrates her Devil Fruit power that allows her to see through people's clothes and even into their minds. After looking into Sanji's mind, she finds out that Law and Luffy have teamed up but is unsure of their reasons for being on Dressrosa. She then looks into Sanji's mind again but is repulsed by his perverted thoughts and demands to know why she cannot see the details of his crew's plan. Sanji replies that he can only think of her. Sanji then tells Violet that he believes she was telling the truth when she asked him to kill a man for her due to the tears in her eyes and shouts he'll never doubt a woman's tears, leaving Violet deeply touched by his words.

Robin woke up to find a bunch of dwarves climbing on her looking for anything suspicious, much to her shock. When she tried to get up, a certain dwarf by the name of Leo informed her that she better stay down, while another named Kabu informed the other dwarves that she used a weird magic. She then recalls how she captured Kabu but how she was then knocked out by an anesthetic flower along with Usopp. After that she is informed that she is currently located under the forest of Green Bit and that she should not try to escape as she is sewn to the ground due to the power of Nui Nui. Robin then apologized to the dwarves promising that she will keep their secret for them, at first the dwarves did not believe her but after being reassured by Robin again they immediately trusted her much to Robin's shock. However, the Tontatta Kingdom's chief arrived and demanded to know what was going on, to which Leo explained that Robin is a good person which he believed immediately, which again shocked Robin. 
Robin then noticed that it is almost time for the exchange and that she must get going, she then asked that the dwarves return her Den Den Mushi but is informed that it has been returned to the wild. After that she asked to be led to the exit but the dwarves say that if she truly is a good person then she will give them her weapons, though Robin said she does not have any weapons. The dwarves then told her that she must be stripped and they attacked her. She is saved, however, by another dwarf named Flapper who quickly informed them that she is the friend of the legendary warrior who was with her. Robin knew that "legendary warrior" would be one of Usopp's lies and wondered what lies he sprouted out at them. 
Meanwhile in Dressrosa,  Sanji then tells Violet that he believes she was telling the truth when she asked him to kill a man for her due to the tears in her eyes. This angers Doflamingo's men and they decide to kill Sanji, however, Violet, who was touched by Sanji's words, uses her Devil Fruit powers to defeat them. 
Violet then tells Sanji that he was right about her and was thankful that he still believed in an enemy like her. Sanji then invites Violet to escape with him and his crew on their ship but Violet tells him that they have fallen into a trap. She then lets Sanji look into her mind using her Devil Fruit powers and see her memories from the morning.
And at the Corrida Colosseum the C block match was about to start. Rebecca was seen reminiscing with her thoughts until she noticed Franky and the Thunder Soldier running. Her eyes began to well up with tears as she recognizes the tin soldier she knew so much. She called out to Thunder Soldier who saw her and Franky stopped for a minute. The tin soldier told her that when he saw the list of participants he couldn't believe she would willingly come back there. With her emotions spilling out, she cried out that she will win the tournament this time and when she is done they can be together. Thunder Soldier however, told her that a crying warrior won't win the tournament and asked Franky to hurry to their destination. Franky, still confused at what was going on, wondered if it was okay to leave her crying, but the tin soldier explained to him that even toys have things they want to protect. However, for the tin soldier, even tears won't fall from his tin eyes leaving Franky in thought over his words and quickly left the arena as Rebecca sank to her knees with her burdening emotions. 
Finally, back at Green Bit's southeastern beach, with two minutes left before the meeting, Trafalgar Law is informed by Sanji who has urgently phoned him that the exchange is in fact a trap.

Law and Caesar Clown are waiting for Doflamingo at the rendezvous point in Green Bit. He then receives a call from Sanji, who is escaping with Viola from Doflamingo's men. During the conversation Sanji is forced to knock down some thugs when he got cornered in a small alley, he then continues to speak. He tells Law that Doflamingo's resignation is a hoax and that handing over Caesar would not be a trade whatsoever. Sanji warns Law to leave Green Bit before it is too late.
During a flashback, Viola informs Sanji about Doflamingo's plan by using her power to show him what happened in Dressrosa that morning. Sanji sees people screaming in panic outside the royal palace: they want to know why Doflamingo abdicated the throne. In the palace, Doflamingo is annoyed with all the commotion outside and wonders why 'they' are not here yet. It is then that CP0 arrives on the island with a ship bearing their symbol. The shortest CP0 agent tells the citizens that the earlier announcement of Doflamingo's resignation from the Shichibukai and his abdication from the Dressrosan throne is false. The citizens are relieved to hear this and they start cheering. The CP0 agent proceeds to say that the mistake will be corrected through an extra edition of the newspaper, set to be released at 3 p.m. He warns the citizens to keep this information a secret until the extra edition is released. After the agent's announcement, Viola stops using her power and affirms to a shocked and confused Sanji that everything that he has just seen is true.
Back in the present time, Sanji again urges Law to leave the island. Doflamingo is then seen approaching the island using his devil fruit ability to cross the waters between Dressrosa and Green Bit. On another part of the island Issho leads a group of Marines. He stops walking when talking over a Baby Den Den Mushi to Sakazuki. Issho asks if Marine Headquarters were fooled by the false report. Sakazuki admits that they were indeed tricked and says that he is going to talk to the Five Elders in Mary Geoise. He orders Issho to go to the rendezvous point. Sanji tells Law one last time to leave the island before hanging up. Just as Law tries to decide on what he should do, Robin's upper half sprouts from the ground. This surprises Caesar and Robin explains that what they see is just a clone. She then tells Law that she had heard the conversation and asked if the caller was Sanji. Law asks Robin where she and Usopp are. He then goes on to say that, if Sanji's report is true, the deal with Doflamingo is off, much to Caesar's dismay. Law asks Robin to summon Usopp. Robin answers that she cannot help at the moment, since she and Usopp are both stuck underground Green Bit. She says that if Law is going to escape, he has to leave them behind. However, just as Law agrees to leave, he notices Issho and a group of marines walking towards him. Doflamingo then also arrives on the island, while Robin dissolves her clone. It is then exactly 3 p.m.
Meanwhile, in the Corrida Colosseum, Gatz announces the arrival of all the Block C gladiators, and announces the start of the battle. Meanwhile, in the pathway leading to the Colosseum, Cavendish is hurrying to go to the ring to find Luffy but was stopped by the guards. Back again to the ring, Luffy's identity was almost exposed when he kept stretching, which is noted by some gladiators that he can stretch like rubber. Near the entrance of the ring, Cavendish shouted that "Lucy" is Luffy in disguise, but was not heard by anybody.
Meanwhile, a group of News Coos delivered an another issue of that day's newspaper, telling everyone that Doflamingo's resignation is false, and earned everyone's shock.
Back in Green Bit, Law asks Doflamingo as if he really used the powers of the World Government and tricked the whole world just to fool ten pirates, and said that he is only a pirate, even if he is a Shichibukai, he should not be able to do such a big thing as having a fake news printed, an act that only World Nobles have the authority. A flashback of Vergo is seen, saying that Law does not know Joker's past, and that will cost his life. This made Law think if Doflamingo is a World Noble.
The episode closes by saying Doflamingo's only purpose, he wanted to kill Law.

During the confrontation between Law, Doflamingo and Issho on Green Bit, Caesar Clown yells to "Joker" to finish off Law already. Law tells Doflamingo that he broke his promise and they were going to have to start their deal from scratch again. However, Doflamingo laughs at this and tells Law to leave his subordinate Caesar alone. At that moment, Issho and his men realize that Law's hostage is none other than Caesar Clown, the criminal scientist behind the poison gas incident. However, Issho says that because he is the subordinate of a Shichibukai, he is exempt of his crimes. 
Doflamingo then directs his attention to Issho and asks if he is really Fujitora, the man who was assigned to admiral at the World Military Draft. He then says that he has heard stories about Fujitora and Ryokugyu being true beasts in terms of power. Issho responds that, although he is still new to the Marines, he cannot understand what Doflamingo is doing on Green Bit. He then states that he has received information that Doflamingo is not following the rules as a Shichibukai. Doflamingo laughs at this and says that if he plans to investigate him, he will need to be prepared to back up his claims before he says anything. 
Doflamingo then asks what the Marines have decided in the matter of Law's disposal. Issho says that if Law really is in an alliance with the Straw Hat Pirates, then he is no longer a Shichibukai. However, he says that if the Straw Hats are just Law's subordinates, then Law can remain a Shichibukai. Law analyzes the situation and decides to buy some time by telling Issho that he is in an alliance with the Straw Hats. Doflamingo laughs once again and Issho officially revokes Law's title as Shichibukai and then prepares to attack. 
Issho then uses his Devil Fruit abilities to cause a meteor to fall out of the sky right on top of them, much to Law and Doflamingo's shock. Caesar and Issho's men run for it but Law, Doflamingo and Issho use their Devil Fruit abilities to cut the meteorite into pieces. The falling meteorite pieces create a large crater around them, leaving only their footholds left. A furious Doflamingo then asks Issho what the Fleet Admiral taught him. Law comments that it does not matter if Issho can see or not. Issho responds that he was just testing his strength a little. 
Back on Dressrosa, Franky is talking to Sanji via the Den Den Mushi. Franky informs Sanji that he and Thunder Soldier are heading to the flower field while Sanji informs Franky that he has fallen in love. Franky tells him that that is great and he is going to find the factory soon but it is going to be bigger job than they originally thought. Sanji then tries to inform Franky about Doflamingo's trick, but Franky says that he already read the newspaper about it and plans to destroy the factory anyway. He then invites Sanji to meet them at the flower field. Sanji then worries about Nami's safety but Franky tells him to stop thinking that she is still weak and reminds him that Brook and Chopper are with her. 
Sanji then notices a giant television screen broadcasting the fight from the Corrida Colosseum. He is shocked to see Luffy on the screen kicking a gladiator in the face while the announcer expresses his shock at the mysterious gladiator Lucy's strength. Sanji then tries to inform Franky that Luffy is fighting in the Colosseum but Franky reveals that he let him fight, much to Sanji's frustration. Sanji then ends his call, and Violet gives Sanji a map to the secret factory. Violet informs Sanji that the factory looks like a toy house up front but it is actually the factory. Sanji expresses concern that Violet will be in a lot of trouble if she keeps helping him but Violet tells him that her superiors are probably already aware of her betrayal. Sanji then tells Violet to meet him at the western port and hide herself so that they can escape later but Violet, amused that Sanji still thinks he can save her, tells him he really is hopeless and smiles before running off. 
Suddenly Kin'emon appears out of nowhere and tells Sanji to defeat a group of Doflamingo's men who were chasing after him. Sanji does so and then comments that Kin'emon could have defeated these small fries himself but Kin'emon said he could not because they used his friend Kanjuro as hostage. He then asks Sanji to come with him to free Kanjuro from a place called the "toy's house". But he does not know where it is. 
Back on Green Bit, in the Tontatta Kingdom, Usopp and the Dwarves are concerned about all the shaking coming from above ground. Robin says that it must be Law and the others. The dwarves then notice that their hero's upset but Usopp says that he is fine and that the shaking was just his Haki. The dwarves are impressed and tell him to keep eating all he wants and call him Usoland. Robin then asks Usopp about why dwarves are calling him Usoland. Usopp shows her a statue with the words "hero" on it and asks her if it reminds her of the picture book from Jaya. Robin realizes that the statue is of Mont Blanc Noland. The dwarf Leo says that she is right and tells the story of how Noland came to their island 400 years ago and fought with the bad humans that were ravaging their island and led the dwarves to victory. Flapper then says that he was moved when "Usoland" said Noland's name and said that he was a descendant of his. Robin looks at Usopp at calls him a bad person but Usopp responds that his lie saved her. The Dwarf chief Gancho then proclaims that Usopp's arrival was due to fate. Leo then says that it was 400 years ago today that Noland led their ancestors to victory and now on the day that they vowed to fight Doflamingo, Usoland the hero showed up. He then says that when Usoland is done eating, they will use an underground tunnel to meet up with their friends on Dressrosa and fight the Donquixote Pirates. The dwarves then proclaim that Usoland will lead them to victory and chant his name, much to Usopp's horror.

Off the coast of Dressrosa on the Thousand Sunny, Nami, Brook, Chopper, and Momonosuke are inspecting what has happened inside of the ship. Suddenly, someone appears and uses a strange power to redesign the door shocking the others. The women walks out of the room and Nami askes who she is. Two men appear and they introduce her as Giolla of the Donquixote Family under Trebol's Army. Giolla then says she has an idea and uses her strange powers to redesign Nami, Brook, Chopper, and Momonosuke into odd-looking characters. The four are shocked at their appearances and Giolla laughs saying they are a piece of art. Nami demands Giolla to turn them back and Giolla says she will only if they hand over Momonosuke. Nami urges Momonosuke that they won't do that and Giolla, hearing Nami, flings another cloud of art at them. Fortunately, Nami opens the hatch to block the attack and she and the others escape after the smoke clears away. Giolla and the two men wonder where they went and Chopper sneaks by and opens the lower doors allowing Nami, Momonosuke, and Brook to escape.
Giolla is angry that they managed to escape and Nami and the others taunt Giolla to chase after them. Brook comments to Nami on how to get the interior of the Thousand Sunny back to normal but Nami doesn't know but says they need to prevent it from getting more messed up. Chopper still hopes that Giolla will go after them but is surprised that she has turned in the opposite direction. Giolla suddenly calls out for more of her troops and they arrive on Donquixote Doflamingo's submarine. Giolla tells the troops to chase after the Straw Hat Pirates and get Momonosuke. Giolla then starts to get another vibe preparing to use another art attack and the Straw Hats urge Giolla to send the attack their way. Giolla, not falling for the trick, unleashes her powers onto the Thousand Sunny completely redesigning it. Giolla is pleased at her work while Nami, Brook, Chopper, and Momonosuke looked on horrified. Giolla then says that the Straw Hats will never leave Dressrosa and urges them to surrender.
At the Corrida Colosseum, Ricky does not want to be treated by the employee. The employee urges Rick to take off his helment but Ricky angrily rejects. Suddenly, Rebecca walks over to him and Ricky remember her from when she was younger. Rebecca tells Ricky that he needs to get treated and Ricky agrees. At a different location, Diamante is seen giving a note to Bellamy telling him to kill Luffy. Bellamy is reluctant to do so as he remembers that Luffy cheered for him during his match. Diamante tells Bellamy that if he does so, then he'll be promoted to an higher member of the Donquixote Family. Meanwhile, Bartolomeo can be seen walking with a suitcase and walks beside Cavendish who congradulates him on his win. Bartolomeo heard that Cavendish wanted to kill "Lucy" knowning it's Luffy in disguise and Cavendish, thinking that Bartolomeo also wants to kill Luffy, tells him not to get in his way. However, Bartolomeo says that his connection with Luffy is "much deeper".
On the stage, many competitors are seen battling it out in Block C. The announcer Gatz informs everyone that there is literally one Giant sticking out of the group. This giant is revealed to be Hajrudin who easily knocks away numerous of competitors without much effort. Hajrudin then announces he will wield the Mera Mera no Mi and will become the king of the Giants. Suddenly, a Fighting Bull known as Grim Reaper can be seen knocking away competitors and the rider is none other than Lucy (Luffy). Luffy quickly becomes popular with the crowd much to Cavendish's annoyance. However, Luffy and Ucy run into Hajrudin and the giant crushes them both with his giant fist. Hajrudin celebrates but Luffy gets up unharmed (due to his ability) and tends to his fallen bull friend. Angry, Luffy uses Gear 2 to boost his speed and hardens his arm with Busoshoku Haki to punch Hajrdin and takes the giant down with one hit. The entire crowd looks on shocked on how Luffy easily took down a giant.

Gatz announces with surprise that Hajrudin has been defeated, referring to him as a favored warrior and speaking for everyone when he calls it unexpected. The crowd loves it and starts cheering for Lucy. Meanwhile, Luffy is helping Ucy to safety, saying he is taking the bull to the corner. Cavendish is unimpressed by Luffy's power, while Bartolomeo seems to enjoy the display. Rebecca is completely shocked by Lucy's might. Ideo walks over the unconscious Hajrudin, remarks that the ring is no place for a nap and delivers an explosive punch that propels Hajrudin huge body into the audience stands, panicking spectators before it falls into the water. Gatz was again surprised to see the blasting force of Ideo's punches, referring to him by his epithet "Destroyer Cannon". Ideo then declares he will get stronger by eating the Mera Mera no Mi as he blasts away more fighters.
Gatz then turns the crowd's attention to the three fighters from Kano Country, referring to them as famous kenpo users. Sai is then seen shattering a fighter's helmet and shield and knocking him out. Sai is then introduced as the thirteenth leader of the Happo Navy. Gatz refers to the navy's power and centuries of martial experience. Boo is then seen defeating a contender and is introduced as the vice leader of the navy. Chinjao is lastly introduced as the retired twelfth leader of the Happo Navy, while he is being surrounded by a ring of fighters. As the gang attempt to move in on Chinjao, he presses his hands together and knocks out several fighters with Haoshoku Haki, stunning the crowd. Other fighters recall his bounty and legendary status as a pirate, and Chinjao turns to them and warns that he is only after one person so they should stay out of his way.
Immediately in front of Chinjao, Jean Ango is seen collecting the weapons of fallen gladiators and thanks Chinjao for incidentally supplying them. He is then introduced as the bounty hunter "Jean the Robber". Gatz recalls that Ango is a bounty hunter hated by many pirates in the New World. A fighter charges at him, crying that he won't forgive Ango for sending his partner to jail. Ango simply says that he's a sniper, and the weapons he scavenges are his bullets. He throws a sword clean through the charging man and tells him to attack the prison if he cares so much about his partner, as someone already did two years ago.
Elsewhere, Kelly Funk is mercilessly beating a fighter who is already well past unconsciousness. The crowd dislikes such overkill and shouts at him in disapproval. Bobby tells his brother to stop and tries to grab him but accidentally seizes the victim instead. The brothers are then introduced as killers from the Mogaro Kingdom. Kelly angrily tells his brother the guy he beat up called him a little midget, and asks Bobby for his opinion. Bobby assures him he is not but Kelly once again lays into the unfortunate fighter, and Bobby again grabs the wrong person in an attempt to stop his brother. Kelly finishes his brutal beat down with a threat to gouge the man's eyes out. Gatz mentions that the brothers are notorious in the underworld, adding that the rumor about them is that they were able to handle pirates with bounties exceeding 100,000,000 Beli.
Boo comes up on them, curious to see how a boxer with no formal training fairs against him and immediately sends Kelly Funk flying with a quick jab to the chin. The crowd is stunned by how easily Kelly was sent flying. Gatz once again shows his personal opinion in the commentary, saying that Boo is too strong while one of his booth assistants keeps him from saying more. Boo then turns his sights on Bobby Funk, who reacts fearfully and claims he had never been in a fight, showing his back as Boo swings an axe down on him. To his surprise, the axe shattered, even though he had used Busoshoku Haki to enforce the blade, leaving Boo to wonder how strong Bobby's body is. Bobby tends to his brother, still furious about being mocked for his height, and tells him to "put it on". Suddenly, what appears to be a larger, enraged Kelly wearing Bobby's hat turns the tables on Boo, to Sai's consternation, hitting him with a barrage of punches that knocks him unconscious and pummels him on the ground. Gatz cannot tell which brother is actually attacking, guessing that Kelly has transformed into a different person.
Somewhere else, Jean Ango has stolen Luffy's helmet; worrying that his cover is blown, Luffy is forced to use his cape to hide his face and hat. Ango mentions that he heard something interesting about Lucy, and mentioned the rumor that Monkey D. Luffy had snuck into the tournament. Luffy looks to his right and sees Chinjao knocking down fighters to get to him. Gatz announces that about forty people remain in the block, saying it is still anyone's game.

At the Corrida Colosseum, Gatz is heard announcing how Kelly Funk easily took down Boo with his sudden increase in strength. Sai is seen kneeling down to his fallen comarde while Ideo is seen taking out opponents with his explosive punches. Don Chinjao knocks away opponents in a fit of anger while Luffy (as Lucy) is trying to get his helmet back from Jean the Bandit. Chinjao is still chasing after Luffy wanting to get revenge on Garp's grandson and Jean overhears this now knowing Lucy is indeed "Straw Hat Luffy". Luffy still chases after Jean and Jean says that he is a bandit and he never returns anything he steals. Luffy almost loses his beard and Jean tries to uncover Luffy more now knowing who Luffy is. Jean starts to attack Luffy by throwing weapons at him but Luffy dodges them all. However, Luffy loses sight of Jean and Jean is seen thinking to himself on how he will win by collecting all of the weapons in the colosseum.
Numerous of competitors are seen getting knocked out of the arena and it turns out to be by Kelly Funk who is using a barrage of punches to send them flying (Rarara Rambo). Gatz wonders where Bobby went and is surprised to see that Kelly has both increased in size and power. A competitor on the ground remembers what happened and a brief flashback is shown where Bobby actually puts on Kelly as a jacket. Kelly then reveals that he ate the Jake Jake no Mi making him a Jacket Human and is able to put his body on the much stronger Bobby to make himself stronger. This was shown how Kelly easily took down Boo. Sai then confronts Kelly saying even though he thinks of Boo as a weaker individual, he is still his subordinate. Kelly attempts to attack Sai with his Rarara Rambo move again but Sai blocks each punch and easily takes down Kelly with a vicious kick. The entire crowd is shocked but pleased at what just happened. Suddenly, Sai is confronted by Ideo who is eager to fight against the strongest man in the colosseum and the two begin to clash.
Just outside Dressrosa, Nami with Momonosuke is seen driving away from Donquixote Pirates on their submarine. Giolla, still on the Thousand Sunny still tells the Straw Hat Pirates to give up. She says that thanks to her Ato Ato no Mi power, she has turned their ship into a work of art and is not able to leave Dressrosa.  Giolla demands them to hand over Momonosuke but, meanwhile, the other Donquixote Pirates wonder where Brook and Chopper went to. Brook and Chopper suddenly appear next to the Donquixote Pirates on their own submarine. Suddenly, weather eggs appear from the sea and hover high above and Nami uses Thunder Breed Tempo to completely destroy the Donquixote Pirates' submarine angering Giolla. Nami then says that no matter how bad the suitation is, they will never leave the Thousand Sunny behind. Nami then tells Brook and Chopper to fight but they both comment they cannot fight in their current form and Brook calls out to Luffy. Back at the Corrida Colosseum, Luffy is seen to be in shocked as Jean the Bandit as collected a large mass of weapons. Jean then challenges Luffy to a battle.
Luffy, knowing he cannot do anything else to hide his identity from Jean, attempts to get his helmet back but Jean tosses weapons at him that miss Luffy but hits the other competitors. Jean continues to toss weapons at Luffy while thanking Luffy for helping him make so much money over the past two years. Luffy (who is dodging all of the weapon throws) is confused by Jean's claims and Jean says he managed to turn over almost all of the prisoners that broke out of Impel Down. Jean says he still intends on turning in Buggy, Jinbe, Crocodile, Ivankov, and Shiryu, intending to make a name for himself. Luffy wonders how Jinbe and Ivankov are doing while Jean continues saying he'll even turn over those that escaped from Level 6 of Impel Down. Jean is surprised that he hasn't managed to hit Luffy yet and continues to throw weapons, this time, with his eyes close. However, when he runs out of weapons, it turns out that some of them got stuck to Chinjao. Jean is horrified at what just happended and an angry Chinjao takes out Jean with a headbutt, eliminating him from the competiton (with Luffy taking back his helmet before Jean was knocked away).
Meanwhile, Ideo and Sai are seen clashing and are evenly matched. Gatz and the crowd are excited to see two warriors battling it out on equal terms. Chinjao is seen finally confronting Luffy, wanting to exact his revenge on Garp by killing his grandson. Luffy still is confused at Chinjao's claims but Chinjao says that killing Garp will be too easy on him and to kill someone he loves will be even greater. Cavendish is seen yelling about not being able to compete in Block C in order to kill Luffy while Bartolomeo looks on. Luffy, seeing no other choice, enters Gear 2 and prepares to fight Chinjao. Luffy says that even if it's not a personal matter, he has to win the tournment so that he will win the Mera Mera no Mi as he does not want anyone else to have Ace's Devil Fruit. Both Luffy and Chinjao charge in, harden their arms with Busoshoku Haki and clash. The force of the punches are so great that it emits a shockwave, knocking away all of the competitors and some of the crowd members. Diamante comments on Luffy and Chinjao are both Haki users and Gatz announces that they are the final two of Block C.

Don Chinjao is impressed by Luffy's Haoshoku Haki. Luffy tells Chinjao that he aims to be the Pirate King and Chinjao scolds him, saying that there are many people in the sea with the right qualities to become king and he must conquer all the conquerors for that to happen. Chinjao asks Luffy who taught him haki and Luffy says it was Rayleigh. Chinjao is surprised that Rayleigh is still alive and hits Luffy, telling him that he doesn't want to remember the past. Don Chinjao starts crying that his treasure was in front of him but he couldn't reach it. Gatz and the crowd are surprised to see the legendary pirate start to cry. Chinjao then angrily demanded answers from Luffy as to what Garp did to him, but Luffy shot back that he should neither cry about it or get angry since Luffy himself had no idea of Garp's life in his golden years.
Meanwhile, Sanji and Kin'emon are watching Luffy's battle from the big screen in town. Kin'emon then asks Sanji to help him to save Kanjuro from the toy house but Sanji says it is too dangerous now as Bastille and the Marines are surrounding the Colosseum. Though the marines surrounded the colosseum since the start of the first battle royale, not a single loser of Block A and B left the stadium, and there was no word of any development from their spy Maynard who was a fighter in the tournament and they worried about any unknowns that could surprise them. The scene switches to the Thunder Soldier explaining to Franky about the two rules imposed by Donquixote Doflamingo since he became king of Dressrosa ten years ago. There is a curfew at midnight. No one can be out after that hour and Toys and humans must not go into each other's houses.
Franky is surprised by this because the toys and the humans get along so well. Suddenly, Esta is seen yelling at a toy, saying that he caught the "human illness". The toy insists that he used to be Esta's boyfriend, but Esta's current boyfriend slaps it away and the town soldiers took the toy away to be thrown into the scrap bin. While being carried away, the toy yelled that he's a human to no avail. After that scene, the two then turned their attention to a boy is telling his toy dog Wanpoko to let him ride on him, but Wanpoko refuses, saying that the boy is too heavy. Wanpoko is in truth Milo, and he used to be the boy's father and the husband of the boy's mother. Thunderous Soldier of Rage then asks the mother and son if they have a husband and father, respectively, and they answer that they do not. Franky was clearly confused over this and asked the toy soldier over what is going on here, and the soldier revealed that the toys were forgotten humans who were turned into toys by a Devil fruit user under the employment of Doflamingo's family since he came to power on the island ten years ago. This revelation shocked Franky to the core and asked if the toy soldier was human once, but it told him that he will continue to tell him more as soon as they reached flowerhill. 
On Green Bit, the fight is continuing against Law's favor, and Law is failing to contact Nami via Den Den Mushi. In the Tontatta Kingdom, the ground is rumbling from the battle aboveground and Leo is confusing it for Usopp's "Haki". Leo then quickly stitches all the furniture in his house to an secure surface. After everything in the house is secured he then leaves the house forgetting that he accidentally stitched his grandma to the shelf as well. Leo asks Usopp and Robin if they are hungry and they reply that they are not. Usopp asks Leo why they want to battle with Doflamingo and Leo answers that 500 dwarves are held captive in the dark factory on Dressrosa, including the kingdom's princess, Mansherry. Leo then shouts that the decisive battle will be in the dark factory, under the Corrida Colosseum.

In the beginning, beneath the Green Bit where lies the Tontatta Kingdom, Leo tells Usopp that there's a subterranean way that connects Green Bit and Dressrosa which they would use as their way of transportation. The dwarf then brings Usopp and Robin to the kingdom's airport, Tontatta Airline (TAL). Both Usopp and Nico Robin are impressed by whole airport system and its transport, which appears to be ridable insects and animals. Kabu and Bian appear, saying that they are ready to take off and that Leo was late. Kabu is revealed to be the Yellow Kabu Squad Leader and the user of Mushi Mushi no Mi, Model: Kabutomushi, allowing him to transform into a rhinoceros beetle. Bian is revealed to be the Pink Bee Squad Leader and the user of Mushi Mushi no Mi, Model: Suzumebachi, allowing her to transform into a hornet. While Usopp seems to be fascinated by the kingdom's insect transport (wishing to show them to Luffy too), Kabu and Bian comments that Usopp and Robin are too big, so the two of them have to ride the Linear Foxes that generally are able to hold 20 dwarves and runs very fast. Usopp comments that the ride makes him feel like a royalty while Robin comments that the foxes' fur is very beautiful. Leo shouts that with the great Usoland by their side, they shall rescue their fellow dwarves. 
While they are heading forward, Usopp and Robin suddenly hear a voice. It turns out to be chief Gancho, who came out of Robin's breasts, only to be scolded by Usopp. Gancho says that there was a thing he didn't clarify yet. He first expressed his gratitude for Usopp and Robin's help and he told them that the history between the dwarves and the Donquixote Family started not ten years ago, but dates back even to 900 years ago. 
The scene switches to Dressrosa, where beneath a field of sunflowers lays a Dwarf Army, called the Riku Royal Army (or the Anti-Doflamingo Army) led by the Thunder Soldier. He introduces Franky to his brothers-in-arms, the dwarves, who thought of Franky as a strong-looking toy and great aid to the incoming war. Franky appears totally confused by the concept of the dwarves, and Thunderous Soldier of Rage explains to Franky that the dwarves' strength won't lose to his, and with their blinding speed, they are known by the Dressrosa citizens as fairies. Franky is surprised to understand that the ones who took Zoro's sword were actually the dwarves, but he quickly gets distracted by Wicca who screams to Zoro, who is already there and is watching the tournament. Zoro is angry that Luffy didn't bring him along, claiming that his swords are just itching to fight. Wicca is surprised to see her commander and Zoro greets Franky nonchalantly, then the cyborg himself scolds Zoro for what the hell he is doing there. Three dwarves report to the soldiers that the enemy's movements as well as those of "Sugar" have been identified. 
One of the dwarves reports that two Legendary Heroes have arrived, namely Robiland and Usoland, and he says they are heading over there right now. He states that they have other friends, who are Luffyland, Zoroland, Namiland, Sanland, Chopperland, Fraland and Bonesland. Zoro and Franky thinks to themselves that it is definitely Usopp who is able to tell such lies. The two of them then tell the dwarves that they are Zoroland and Fraland respectively, and the dwarves appears to be amazed by it. Zoro suddenly realize that it is not the time for him to be with the dwarves, and that he must go back to Sunny to save Nami and the others. Wicca says that that was what she was trying to tell him all along. 
The scene switches to the Thousand Sunny, where Nami is fighting against Giolla, but clearly she is on the losing side. She tries to release a Weather Egg to produce snow clouds, but her Clima-Tact is transformed into a useless object. Nami seems disgusted by the new form of her weapon, calling it a "toy". Giolla angrily asks Nami who she is calling a supermodel, to which Nami replies that she never did. Giolla proceeds to explain that her power is not to turn things into toys, although there is someone like that in the family. She explained that she has eaten the Ato Ato no Mi, which made her an Art Human and allows her to turn things into works of art. On the other side, Chopper's horns have been turned into wings and his hooves into rabbits, rendering him useless. Momonosuke says that they want to capture him, and Brook answers that he would never surrender the boy, but even his Soul Solid has been transformed into art. Giolla yells at the remaining pirates to stop acting like victim and be happy to be turned into an art, despite being angry later that her crews and submarine are badly damaged. Giolla proceeds to ask them which type of Artistic Death Penalty they want to repay her with and a Den Den Mushi starts ringing in the background. Chopper answers the Den Den Mushi: it's Law calling. While Chopper immediately asks Law for help, Law ignores him and orders the crew to reach Green Bit, where he will give them Caesar. After that, he cuts the call. Nami comments that the guy is almost as reckless as Luffy, doing whatever he wants and not listening to anybody. 
Outside of the Colosseum, Kin'emon is cheering for Luffy, resulting him to be scolded by Sanji. Kin'emon replies him with his belief that a man must be cheered in order for him to win. 
On Green Bit's surface, Doflamingo appears to cut numerous stones and asks a tired Law who he just called, and tells him that he should return Caesar's heart, claiming it is meaningless for him to stay there and buying some time. Also he is informing Law that Luffy fell right into his trap. He says that Luffy is having a lot of fun in the tournament full with the strongest people (mainly outlaws), but the ones who lose in it will fall straight to hell and will never make it out of the tournament. Doflamingo exclaims that their alliance is finished.

The crowd is abuzz with excitement and Gatz is amazed with the fight commenting on the speed of the fight and how words are escaping him in trying to describe it, calling it one of the greatest fights ever to take place in the colosseum. Back in the arena, Chinjao is berating Luffy for being like the rest of his generation and having a big head merely because he is labeled as part of "the worst generation", saying that they are nothing compared to his generation. Chinjao then surprises Luffy by telling him that he is familiar with Blackbeard, next he tells Luffy that he is not ready to fight with him and that he should just give up on being a pirate. He then goes on to berate Rayleigh for believing Luffy could lead the way for the new generation, calling him out of touch, then he praises the marines for killing Ace, which angers Luffy immensely. 
Chinjao then tells Luffy to come down and receive "a baptism by fire", saying that with the rage he has built up for Garp in the past 30 years will make Luffy feel the full weight of his strength. 
Chinjao proceeds to tell Luffy the events of 30 years ago, where it is revealed that he used to have a pointy head and was once on a continent of ice, which could not be broken by fire or brute force. Some thieves are seen trying to break the ice so they could get their hands upon the treasures that lay beneath, but all of their efforts were fruitless. Chinjao then shows up and told them that to crack the exterior you have to concentrate an incredible force into a single point. He proceeds to do so and actually cracks the ice, sending the robbers pluming in the sudden chasm and onto the sea or treasure. Chinjao then orders his crew to tie up the treasure hunters and to throw them into the sea, he then proclaims that with happiness and fortune, everything he desires in life can be found within the frozen room. The room is revealed to be filled with several hundred years worth of treasure from Chinjao's clan and that the "key" to getting into the room is his drill head. Later on a different island, Chinjao and Garp meet and proceed to taunt each other before dueling, Garp throws a Haki-imbued fist to counter Chinjao's Haki-imbued headbutt. Both men seem to put all of their strength into these attacks and Garp comes out the victor when his punch, pushes Chinjao's pointy forehead back into his skull, surprising his crew and forcing them to retreat. After recovering, Chinjao speechless at the lack of a point in his skull, travels once again to the ice continent, only this time he is unable to make the ice crack open no matter how hard he tries, much to his dismay. His crew begs him to stop and he does, crying over the fact that he is no longer able to reach his gigantic wealth, he then curses Garp saying that he will never forgive him or even his grandchildren. 
Chinjao finishes his recollections after he had quit being a pirate, but Luffy says that has nothing to do with him as he should talk to his grandfather about his grudge. Luffy finally makes a move and hits Chinjao with a Gomu Gomu no Hawk Rifle on his stomach. The crowd seems to cheer for him while Chinjao appears to cough some blood from the said attack. After Chinjao falls down and hits his head upon receiving Luffy's devastating attack, he quickly gets back up and commends Luffy on his fighting prowess to which Luffy responds that he will not lose to Chinjao.
Chinjao then asks Luffy if he thinks he has what it takes to defeat the admirals, the yonko and succeed Roger. Luffy who has become furious due to these rantings, grabs onto Chinjao's head and uses a Gomu Gomu no Rocket to launch himself upwards, surprising Gatz, the crowd and Chinjao. 
Chinjao then makes a silent promise to Garp that he will take his precious grandson's life and while imbuing his skull with Haki, he demands that Luffy repents for what his grandfather had done with robbing him of everything with only one punch. Luffy however is in no mood to take pity on Chinjao, stating that his grandfather had hit him more times than he could count. Chinjao then ascends to meet Luffy's punch with his headbutt and the two forces collide, with Luffy's punch causing Chinjao's skull to grow a point like it had years before, totally astonishing the crowd. The force of Luffy's punch sends Chinjao plummeting towards the colosseum arena and his new point manages to crack the floor, which surprises everyone even more, Chinjao then technically falls out of bounds causing him to be disqualified from the fight, leaving Luffy as the winner of the C block battle royale. 
Elsewhere, Cavendish remarks that the next time he meets Luffy, he will not let him get away, though Bartolomeo reminds him that he will not let him kill Luffy, to which Cavendish declares that if he gets in his way he too will suffer his wrath. All of this is overheard by Bellamy, while Jesus Burgess is surprised that the winner of the C block battle royale turned out to be Straw Hat Luffy.

The winners from the previous blocks of the Corrida Colosseum: Jesus Burgess from Block A, Bartolomeo from Block B and Luffy still in the disguise of Lucy, are mentioned once again. Due to the repairs on the destroyed arena caused by the fight between Luffy and Chinjao, the start of the Block D competition is delayed by fifteen minutes.
As Luffy leaves the ring, Cavendish attacks him with Durandal, but Luffy dodges all the strikes.The fight catches the attention of Bartolomeo, who is annoyed with Cavendish for wanting to kill Luffy. A couple of competitors overheard Cavendish mentioning Luffy's epithet, and mock Luffy not being able to save Ace in the "War of the Best". Bartolomeo uses his devil fruit powers to crush the man against a wall, as the man threatens that he is a noble. Bartolomeo grabs the competitors tongue and says that Luffy will become the future Pirate King. He begins to explain his past with the pirate.
Two years ago, Bartolomeo was at Loguetown, when Luffy was about to be executed by Buggy on the same platform where Gol D. Roger was executed. At the last second, a lightning strike hit the sword, destroying the platform and saving Luffy's life. This amazed and inspired Bartolomeo, who started to read every news story about the Straw Hat's actions in the Grand Line. Eventually, after the events at Marineford, he set out to become a pirate, forming the Barto Club. Bartolomeo then threatens the noble's tongue with a knife, before beating him up.
Meanwhile, Luffy manages to grab Cavendish's sword, and the two struggle to overcome one another. Bartolomeo tries to get Cavendish's attention, but is too awestruck by Luffy to speak properly. Chinjao, Sai and Boo, leaving the ring, call to Luffy to thank him for returning Chinjao's drill-shaped head. The old pirate says that he will not hold any grudge against Garp anymore, and bows his head, accidentally splitting the floor. Luffy, not paying attention and assuming that Chinjao wants to fight him again, runs away amidst the confusion, with Cavendish, Bartolomeo and the Chinjao Family following him.
After escaping from them, Luffy is found by Rebecca, who leads him away. While he is running, Luffy spots Jesus Burgess talking to his captain, Blackbeard. Burgess tells Blackbeard that he cannot trust Aokiji, to which Blackbeard notes the same can be said of their crewmate, Shiryu. After Burgess notifies Blackbeard of Luffy's presence, the Emperor tells Luffy that Burgess will win the Mera Mera no Mi, and brags that it will be just like having Ace in his crew. As Rebecca leads Luffy away, he says to her that Burgess will not win the fruit. He passes by a stall and starts eating, asking if there are any more free samples. Rebecca buys some of them for him, and Luffy thanks her. When they stop to eat, Rebecca tells Luffy that they are in the quarters of the gladiators, and mentions that some of them call it a prison.
When Luffy asks Rebecca if she is hungry, Rebecca remembers some of her childhood. When she was a young girl, she said to her mother that she was hungry, and her mother replied that they have not had anything for two days. Rebecca remembers seeing her dead mother, and replies to Luffy that she does not get hungry. One of the convict gladiators grabs Luffy, and he asks Rebecca what is going on. Rebecca picks up her sword and attacks Luffy. He avoids the attacks and pins her down, without dropping his food. Rebecca tells Luffy that he can do what he wants and that her real intention is to kill him, but he says that she had no intention of killing him. Luffy is surprised by the convict gladiators, since they are all injured and covered with bandages. The convict gladiators tell Luffy that they fought in the Colosseum because they went against the Donquixote Family and according to the king, they will only be released when they win a thousand fights. After hearing this, Rebecca announces her desire to win the tournament and kill Donquixote Doflamingo.

As Rebecca lies on the ground sobbing, a bewildered Luffy asks about her sudden breakdown. She then explains to him that her friend, the one-legged soldier Luffy met outside the Colosseum, will soon die. A perplexed Luffy finds such shocking news very strange, though finds that the fact that the toy is alive in the first place is even stranger. Rebecca tells him that Luffy, just as every other newcomer to Dressrosa, cannot fully understand. She proceeds to explain how toys in the country are treated the same as people, capable of befriending the friendless, becoming brothers to those without brothers, and becoming lovers to the loveless. She does note the fact that toys and humans are not allowed to live amongst one another, which she finds confusing. Ever since her mother Scarlett died 10 years ago, "Mr. Soldier" out of grief and kindness began to raise Rebecca as his own. Gatz then announces that the arena has been fixed, while the other gladiator prisoners tell Rebecca that the upcoming D block battle royale will soon begin. Rebecca then notices Luffy eating his spilled food off of the ground. He explains that although he spilled his food in the scuffle earlier, he eats it anyway as an apology to Rebecca for having to pay for his food, calling it delicious. Gatz then mentions how the D block battle is full of veterans, and as Rebecca proceeds to enter the arena she tells Luffy that she will meet him in the final match.  
As she enters the arena, Rebecca recalls living with her mother as a young girl, specifically a day where she helped her mother sell some flowers and afterwards shared a meal together. She then recalls how the king's palace was ravaged and burned down as she and her mother fled from a younger Diamante and some other members of the Donquixote Pirates. Fortunately, they managed to escape their attackers, finding a place of refuge in some nearby woodlands. 
After a while, Scarlett decides to gather food for the both of them, leaving Rebecca behind, though promising to return shortly. Days later, Rebecca hears movement in the bushes, discovering a battered and bruised Thunder Soldier with a bloodied Scarlett in his arms, shocking Rebecca. The Thunder Soldier explains how Scarlett was attacked, and although he tried to protect her, she was ultimately killed. The Thunder Soldier gives Rebecca some food, though she instead begins to cry. The bewildered Thunder Soldier initially does not know what to do, though immediately clamps his hand on her mouth to keep her quiet as Doflamingo's troops storm by, looking for Rebecca. Later on, the Thunder Soldier tells Rebecca that her mother was an important person, and as her daughter, she is also just as important, which is why Doflamingo is after her. He then tells her that since he could not protect her mother, he will protect her, even at the cost of his life. Rebecca is not concerned with herself though, fixated on the death of her mother. She begins to sob for her mother as the Thunder Soldier attempts to cheer her up, all while trying to run back to her old home. The Thunder Soldier, however, realizes that her home has been occupied by Doflamingo's troops by now. Back at the village, Donquixote Doflamingo is shown as the new king, having usurped the throne from the previous Riku family, who had governed for centuries before their usurpation. It is also revealed that in the most recent years, the previous regime of Dressrosa was hated by its subjects for increasingly high taxation. Doflamingo promised to destroy the old ways and bring wealth back to the country. 
The Thunder Soldier then tries to take care of Rebecca who resists at first, but over time comes to accept him. He then finds a place for Rebecca to live and tells her that although he cannot live with her, he will always be there beside her. To prove his statement, he will always drop one flower petal every morning from the window into her bedroom. Over the years, the two are very happy together, until Rebecca is kidnapped, forcing the Thunder Soldier to attack her kidnappers and retrieve her. In the process, he becomes a wanted man. The two then find another place to live and Rebecca promises to one day live in the same house as him. Deciding that Rebecca should learn how to fight and protect herself from danger, the toy begins to teach her how to defend herself.  
The flashback ends with Rebecca stepping into the ring, thinking about how the soldier always protected her. Gatz then announces her arrival as people jeer and scream at her. Rebecca then hopes for the future and well being of the Thunder Soldier, promising that she will not lose.  
Luffy is angered and says that she is a nice person. One of the prisoners replies that everyone despises her because of her grandfather, the former King who destroyed the country many years ago.

The audience is still shouting hateful slurs at Rebecca while talking poorly of her grandfather. Luffy says that her being the former king's granddaughter is a moot point, thinking about Chinjao and his own grandfather. The convict gladiators agree with him. One of the competitors gives Rebecca a backhanded compliment, calling her beautiful but an even bigger nuisance than Bartolomeo while another one muses that killing her would make him a local hero. A voice calls out to stop. Cavendish enters the arena, sword drawn, mounted on his horse, Farul. Gatz enthusiastically announces his arrival as women in the audience begin to swoon from his presence. Gatz commenting saying that Cavendish has not lost his touch from three years ago as a spectator calls for Cavendish to make Rebecca suffer. Cavendish waves Durandal at the audience and tells them to shut up. He does not know why the audience hates Rebecca, but she still has the resolve to fight for her life in the ring, which the audience does not. Cavendish tells the audience that they who are not fighting have no right to speak ill of her and anyone who wants to back up their threats should pick up a weapon and step into the ring, adding that the words of those with no resolve fall only as noise against his ears. Cavendish goes on to say that even though he has his reasons to compete this time, he hates contests such as this, believing that a warrior's life is not something that should be used for entertainment. The crowd is visibly moved by Cavendish's speech as he dismisses his horse. Even Luffy was impressed by what Cavendish said, but not enough to start liking him.
The audience's mood has changed and they start cheering for Cavendish as Gatz comments that Cavendish's charisma is palpable. Another gladiator tries to compliment him, saying even though he did not predict the audience would not react this way and that their behavior is quite fickle, however, he does not get to finish his compliment. Cavendish suddenly realizes he suddenly has popularity for the first time in three years, catching the gladiator off guard. Rebecca comes up to Cavendish and thanks him for what he just did. Cavendish tells her he only did it because they irritated him and that she should ignore it because they are now enemies. His imagination then runs away with him, and he asks if there are any reporters nearby, saying it would be "tragic" if this event made it into the papers and the press got an interview with him. Gatz announces that everyone in Block D has assembled, a total of 137 people, only one competitor having been dropped prior to the start of the round as the starting bell goes off. The gladiators start fighting as seven of the favored fighters from earlier are shown: Cavendish, Suleiman, Mummy, Rolling Logan, Damask, Orlumbus, and Rebecca.
Meanwhile, Law continues to struggle with Doflamingo and Fujitora. Just as Doflamingo pins him, Fujitora stops him from killing him, stating he wants to arrest Law. Doflamingo then retrieves Caesar's heart and decides to tell Law more about himself.
The scene changes to the Flower Field where Kabu's and Bian's squads have just arrived. Leo declares that the day of reckoning is upon them. Thunder Soldier is trying to inspire the troops, stirring their sense of loyalty to the former king. The plan has taken over a year to come together, and they can win even against a Shichibukai. Usopp is listening to the plan so he can find out the best time to run away.
Back in Acacia, Wicca is trying to guide Zoro. She explains that Giolla is attacking the Thousand Sunny and gives him a rundown of her powers. She tells Zoro that she cannot forget the names, faces, and abilities of the three people who defeated the entire Dressrosa army ten years ago: Diamante, Trebol, and Pica. Sanji and Kin'emon see Zoro nearby and get his attention. Zoro introduces them to Wicca as Curlyland and Top-knotland. Sanji and Kin'emon are quickly brought up to speed on the situation back on the ship, and decide to go with Zoro to save them. Violet peeks out from behind a corner and tells Sanji that their ship was taken by Giolla and is en route to Green Bit.
At the Colosseum, Rebecca is ganged up by five warriors but defeats all of them while tossing them out of the ring declaring she'll win the Mera Mera no Mi and kill Doflamingo.

On Green Bit, Doflamingo is telling Law about how the twenty kings created the World Government. Nineteen of the twenty families decided to move to Mary Geoise, the Nefertari family being the only one who did not go. The descendants of the kings, the World Nobles, still live there today. This meant nineteen countries had to elect new royalty and new families were established. He says that the new ruling family in Dressrosa was the Riku Family, while the family that left for Mary Geoise was the Donquixote Family. Law then reacts shocked as he realizes Doflamingo's heritage.
Zoro and Kin'emon stand outside the Colosseum, after talking to Sanji and discussing their plan. Sanji decides to go save Nami, gives Kin'emon the map to the toy house, and leaves with Violet to find their ship. Meanwhile, Zoro and Kin'emon are looking for a way to enter the Corrida Colosseum while trying not to draw any attention to themselves. However, they've already been spotted by Bartolomeo, who gushes over seeing one of his idols, Zoro. He goes on to think about the man he considers the first mate of the crew, due to his deeds in Whisky Peak and Enies Lobby. Bartolomeo then cries out to Zoro, leaving him at a blank as to who he is.
On the deformed Thousand Sunny, Brook is apparently aiding Giolla in making abstract art whilst subduing Nami, Chopper and Momonosuke. However, Brook tricks Giolla to returning his sword back to normal and swiftly defeats her. With Giolla defeated, her spell is broken and everyone including the ship are returned to normal. However, she transforms herself into art called "Heaven's Door Art" to take them down. However, once Nami uses the Gaon Cannon it defeats her and has her land on the ship. However, Momonosuke knocks her with a bat, knocking her out cold and ending the fight.

On the ship, the Straw Hats and Momonosuke, aboard a restored Thousand Sunny, are finished beating up Giolla, and head for Green Bit. They discuss Doflamingo leaving the Shichibukai, which makes Giolla laugh and exclaim that her captain would never do such a thing. This annoys Nami, and she strikes Giolla with a thunderbolt again. 
In the Corrida Colosseum, Block D is continuing as Cavendish fights against Gardoa and defeats him. Meanwhile, Mummy, Orlumbus, Cavendish, Meadows, Fighting Lion, Rebecca, Damask, Rolling Logan, Acilia, and Suleiman are introduced as they fight while Rebecca is being ganged up by various other fighters. 
On Green Bit, Doflamingo taunts Law about his past, mentioning how he used to be a World Noble but not anymore. However, Law mentions that it isn't necessarily Caesar's heart Doflamingo has got hold of. Doflamingo cold heartedly squeezes the heart, and one of Fujitora's subordinates cries out in pain, angering the Admiral. The sound of the thunder bolt attracts the attention of Fujitora, who asks Doflamingo if he can see any clouds overhead. When Law realizes that it is probably Nami, he escapes the Admiral's gravity powers using Shambles, switching places with a rock, and successfully retrieving Caesar Clown. The rock he swapped places with is crushed by Fujitora's ability, and Law starts to run with Caesar, while Doflamingo chases them. Law plans to send Caesar to the ship while he attempts to lead Doflamingo onto the bridge, in order to stall him there and provide time for the others to escape with Caesar. 
Meanwhile, the Thousand Sunny is approaching Green Bit, but is suddenly attacked by Fighting Fish. The crew begins to panic, which attracts the attention of Doflamingo to the incoming ship. Doflamingo heads towards the Thousand Sunny, telling Law he's going to kill all of them, when suddenly Sanji arrives and confronts Doflamingo.

Sanji attacks Doflamingo with Diable Jambe and Doflamingo easily dodges while casually asking if the person attacking him is "Black Leg" Sanji. Sanji uses Premiere Hachi and Doflamingo dodges again. Doflamingo then uses his Goshikito attack on Sanji and lands a hit. He then turns his sights back on the Thousand Sunny, much to the horror of those watching from it. As Doflamingo is about to go to the ship, Sanji uses Poele a Frire: Spectre. Doflamingo blocks the attack but admits it is pretty powerful. He then takes control of Sanji. His crew mates panic at seeing him immobilized while Giolla simply laughs and says that all who fight her master while remaining ignorant of his abilities are reduced to, being immobilized and at his mercy. Nami yells at Sanji to run. A whip extends from Doflamingo's hand and he is about to use it on Sanji in a move called Overheat. Nami and Brook ready their weapons in an attempt to do something to help, but Sanji tells them to leave him and run, ordering Nami to use the Coup de Burst to escape.
From the shore, Law sees the events transpiring in the air, and quickly throws a log while using Shambles, having put a Room around himself, Caesar, Doflamingo, and Sanji. Law quickly switches places with the log and then moves everyone out of Doflamingo's path. Doflamingo has no time to halt his attack, and releases Overheat with such power that it reaches all the way to Dressrosa and slices a building in half, surprising and confusing any bystanders. Law, Caesar, and Sanji make a rough landing onto the ship's deck. Caesar is mortified to be back on the ship and orders Giolla to help him, but she cannot, having been placed in the same situation. Doflamingo is heading back to the ship now, unhappy that he let his guard down. Chopper cries out that Doflamingo is coming back again. Law asks Sanji how destroying the factory is going. Sanji tells him they know where it is, but destroying it won't be so easy. Momonosuke asks Sanji where his father and Kanjuro are. Sanji tells him that they are also at the factory and Law realizes they need more time. Caesar sees Law holding a heart and asks if he just took that from the boat. Law tells Caesar that the heart in his hand is his own, and he was hiding Caesars in his own chest cavity.
Law tells the crew to take Caesar and head for Zou right away. Nami is confused and Law explains that he already gave them a Vivre Card that would lead them there. Brook asks what will happen to Luffy and the others if they go now. Law assures them that they will follow the ship as soon as the factory is destroyed. Nami is against this idea, saying they cannot leave without their captain and that they are called the Straw Hat Pirates for a reason. Before the argument can continue, from out of Green Bit comes a Marine battleship, flying over the island. To make matters worse, Doflamingo is now in range to attack on the other side. Law tells them they can stay if they want, but cannot hand Caesar over no matter what. An officer gives the order to fire, which the ship's cannons are, however, something else is descending on the Thousand Sunny, meteors. A frightened Nami tells Law that the "Spiral Hat" Pirates are ready to go. Sanji tells Law that he understands him wanting to keep Caesar away, but Dressrosa was supposed to only be a small stepping stone for the overall plan, and tells Law he seems to be a little too fixated on Doflamingo.
Law uses Tact to redirect a meteor into the hull of the battleship. On board the ship, a soldier reports to Admiral Fujitora that the ship had been hit. Issho, while eating a bowl of noodles casually observes that the hit was due to his miscalculation, having not planned for Law to be with them. He gives the order to head back to Dressrosa, noting how the tides have turned. Doflamingo uses Overheat again and makes contact with something on the Thousand Sunny's deck. Law has intercepted the rope and it is now wrapped around Kikoku. Law tells Sanji to find a place without clouds and stay there. Doflamingo ate the Ito Ito no Mi, which allows him to wield strings, which includes casting them through clouds as a means of moving across the sky. Chopper yells for them to go as Law holds his sword at Giolla's neck to keep Doflamingo at bay, even though she told Doflamingo not to worry about her. Coup de Burst is activated and the ship takes off.
On the bridge between Green Bit and Dressrosa, Doflamingo asks Law the point of only letting half the crew escape, saying he could easily use the remaining members as hostages. Law tells him that doing so would only make Doflamingo a part of the many people who would regret underestimating that crew. Law tells Doflamingo that his alliance with the Straw Hats is now over, much to Doflamingo's surprise, as it cuts to a shot of Luffy cheering followed by a shot of those aboard the Thousand Sunny trying to contact the others. Law tells them that the alliance was purely to halt the production of Smile, cutting to shots of Zoro and Kin'emon as well as Robin, Franky, and Usopp. Law tells him that even if he dies here, as long as the factory is destroyed, Doflamingo will still have to face Kaido's wrath. Doflamingo is impressed by Law's plan. Law tells him that as much as he would love to watch the chaos following the factory's destruction, getting revenge for what Doflamingo did thirteen years ago comes first.

Doflamingo demands to know what Law plans to do with Giolla, since his Family will do anything to help their captain. Law simply switches her with a rock and allows her to flee, which she doesn't wait to do. Doflamingo states Law's grudge is just his pettiness of his past loss, but Law disagrees, claiming he plans to fulfill the dedication of a person he knew. Thus the two begin to clash on the bridge, with Law using his powers to create an explosion. 
Out at sea, Nami's group are trying to get back to Dressrosa while being on the lookout for Dolflamingo. Chopper is worried about Law while Sanji calls Usopp and finds out he's with Robin and Franky. Upon hanging up, he notices Momonosuke quite unnerved over something. Momonosuke tells him that he witnessed Doflamingo cruelly torture a subordinate for his failure in the arena when he had previously visited the island with his father and their friend, Kanjuro. After this, Kanjuro suggested they flee the island, but he was captured in the process, prompting Momonosuke to worry about his safety. 
Sanji listens passively as he thinks about Violet. A flashback showing that while they were riding on a toy horse, Violet had told him she had someone in the Government waiting for her to take her off the island and thanks Sanji for his help. He tried to get her to kiss him on the cheek but she saw the school of Fighting Fish attacking the Sunny in her visions causing Sanji to take off to go help the others. 
Back in the present, Violet rides past a few people viewing the D-Block fight on a monitor. She shoots and destroys it with a pistol before asking the toy horse to take her back to the palace. 
At the Colosseum, Bartolomeo has gotten the attention of Zoro and Kin'emon. He cries in joy, and is later told to inform Luffy that they are looking for him. He agrees, requesting Zoro's autograph as the reward from the request. 
In the ring, Rebecca is managing to hold her own by staying near the edge of the arena and knocking off the opponents who try to attack her. The announcer reveals that she has managed to win all her battles this way without causing any harm to her opponents. However she is soon confronted by Rolling Logan, who sets his sights on her and threatens to break every bone in her body.

Bartolomeo continues to try to find Luffy while he imagines meeting the other Straw Hats. He notices all the other fighters from previous blocks not anywhere to be found and stumbles upon a infirmary room with various Block C losers. He briefly mocks them before leaving. Meanwhile, Sai demands to know why his grandfather hasn't left the surgery yet. The guards state that he exited through a different room, which Sai accepts and profusely over-apologizes for. He takes his turn to be treated, but once on the examination table the guards open a trapdoor underneath him and drop him into a dark, vast underground chamber. As Sai's eyes adjust to the dark, he sees that everyone else who has lost in the tournament, along with countless broken toys, have likewise been dumped there. As the former contestants wonder what's going on, Chinjao vows he will hold a grudge against Doflamingo for his actions until his grandchild's generation.
In the stadium, Rebecca is confronted by Rolling Logan as the audiance cheers for Logan to crush her. Logan begins his assault but Rebecca begins to run while Logan mowes over other conpetitors. He eventually gets a hold of Rebecca as the audiance cheers for Logan to kill her, but is saved at the last second by Acilia. The duo fight Logan, and Rebecca eventually causes him to fall out of the ring.
Outside the prison cells, Luffy continues to cheer for Rebecca but begins to have trouble viewing her. He gets up to get a better look, and as he does he voices his concerns for Dressrosa, stating he can not help but wonder if something is amiss about the country. The prisoner-gladiators agree, stating that due to Doflamingo's rule, he has hidden the true, ugly nature of the island from his inhabitants and that losers like them are treated like living trash and are hidden away. Luffy immediately draws a parallel in his head to the Grey Terminal of his hometown of Goa Kingdom. The gladiators give him a warning to be careful as he leaves. As soon as he turns a corner into a crowded area, he is spotted by Bartolomeo, who screams and cries in admiration on finding him.

More of the losing contestants of Block C of the tournament are dumped into the pit, and the group of fighters ponder how to escape. Ricky is amazed that such a place exists underneath the kingdom. Tank notices something about Ricky and steps forth, before hesitantly asking if he's the former king of Dressrosa. Ricky, having no reason to hide his identity any longer, removes his helmet and confirms that he is indeed the former king, Riku Doldo III. Tank weeps in happiness once this is revealed as he was a former soldier within the Riku army, even having entered the tournament to keep a watch over Rebecca. Elizabello II is likewise happy to see him and hugs him forcefully, stating that Doldo used to help out his kingdom in time of need. Sai, Boo and Chinjao are less accommodating however, and they confront King Doldo with the knowledge that Doflamingo rose to power due to his actions, which lead his prominence as a black market arms dealer who would supply weapons to the enemies of the Kanokui Kingdom. Sai also states this is the reason why the Happo Navy are in Dressrosa, to find and cripple Doflamingo's weapon supply. Daguma likewise talks ill about Doldo, but Tank steps forth and defends his former king. The pair argue, with Lepanto stating the events concerning Doldo's fall and Doflamingo's rise are uncertain, but Doldo stops him and makes both of them back down. Most of the gladiators also reveal that they are former members of his army. A few of the broken toys unexpectedly arise from the pile and they, along with the former soldiers, bow to Doldo to the shock of everyone present. Hack reports to someone on a Den Den Mushi. 
Suddenly, a glob lowers onto Sai and snatches him into the ceiling, and before anyone can react he is dragged through a tunnel into a dark room. An unseen process occurs, including Trebol ordering him to a factory; at the end of which, Sai finds himself turned into a toy monkey without control over his body, compelled to follow Trebol's orders as he marches out of a door into the public. 
Back at the Flower Fields, Gancho explains the past of the Tontatta Kingdom. 900 years ago, the dwarves had come to Dressrosa to find resources for their people. The former rulers, the Donquixote Family, had promised to help them, but in truth they enslaved them and forced them to make jewels and trinkets for them alone, away from the public eye. Not even they are certain of the events of that time, as it occurred during the Void Century, but eventually at the end of the 100 years the Riku Family took over as the rulers of Dressrosa. On learning of the plight of Tontatta, the king pleaded for forgiveness and offered to help them. The kingdom flourished during those peaceful years, with the dwarves granted lease to take small items from the humans of the island in the guise of fairies in return for small acts of kindness and the planting of flowers across the kingdom - until Doflamingo, heir of the Donquixotes, came to the island and through treachery overthrew the Riku Family and regained the throne. The tribe is determined not to go back to those dark days and plans to fight with all they have. After being told this, Robin asks Thunder Soldier about Rebecca and why the people hate her. He reveals it was due to the actions of Riku Doldo, who believed he was doing the best he could for the country, but who was misled into doing something terrible. The truth was hidden from the common citizens, who were led to see him as a bad and unfit king and revile him. The soldier tried his best to protect his granddaughter, but ultimately she was caught and thrown in the coliseum. Usopp then asks who he really is, to which the soldier reveals that he is Rebecca's father.

While Rebecca continues her fight in Block D, the Thunder Soldier explains to Usopp, Franky and Nico Robin, how the former king Riku lost the faith of his people and, eventually, the throne. Dressrosa used to be a fairly poor country but the people were happy and grateful for their king, whose family had managed to keep their land out of war for a whole 800 years.
One night, however, ten years ago, Doflamingo appeared in the king's chambers. Riku recognized him as a descendant of the Donquixote family, and commented on his feats as a pirate, which include stealing money from the Celestial Dragons and blackmailing the World Government to attain the position of Shichibukai. Doflamingo states his demand, asking for a 10 billion Belly fee by dawn, in order to leave the country alone. Riku panics at first, but then decides there is no other way, if he wants to avoid a war, so he gathers his soldiers and asks them to collect all of the citizens' money, without informing them of the situation.
Tank Lepanto, as commander of the army, takes on his king's will and spreads his men across the island, asking for the people to give their fortune, as the king needs it right now. The people are reluctant at first, but seeing their king begging on his knees, via a video Den Den Mushi, they are eventually persuaded. Tank is moved to see everyone giving away their treasures, without even asking for a reason and marks that this shows huge faith.
Just as the money was being gathered, Riku appears in the city of Sevio, riding his horse. The king, with tears in his eyes, starts attacking innocent people and destroying everything in his path, while begging for everyone to stay away from him. Soon, the soldiers follow the king's deeds also unable to control their movement. In the shadows, Doflamingo is seen,along with his crew, using his Devil Fruit ability to control Riku and his soldiers, waiting for the right moment to interfere and act as a saving hero in the eyes of Dressrosa's confused citizens.

The citizens of Dressrosa plea for their king to stop attacking his own people, saying the least he could do is spare their lives after they so willingly gave him all their money. The officers at the palace are confused about what to do. One of them states the king looked strange when he left the palace, but never imagined he would do something as awful as that. Another officer deems the problem to no longer be an internal matter and orders that the Marines be called. He is told that Captain Vergo is on his way as Doldo's daughter looks on nervously. She then notices that it is snowing and asks Monet what she is doing, having opened the palace doors without permission. Monet, addressing the woman as Princess Viola, simply laughs and says that if the princess knew how to use her Senrigan properly, she would know that by opening the gates, Monet is welcoming in the new royal family. Guards report a fire in the eastern tower, declaring that pirates have invaded the palace and that Viola has been captured. Monet is then seen holding Viola hostage as several prominent members of the Donquixote Pirates barge through the gates. The guards try to stop them, ordering Monet to let the princess go. Giolla simply jokes that things are about to get busy for them while Lao G more bluntly states that they need to purge the palace. 
Meanwhile, king Riku's rampage continues. The king is lamenting the atrocities he is committing, begging someone to kill him. Citizens and guards alike are in tears over the actions being committed. The people wonder why the king is doing this now after always being such a benevolent ruler. The people then begin to curse the Riku name, calling their king human trash. The army is charging through the streets, toward a man on the ground tending to an injured woman. Another man yells for him to run, but the first man only cries out for help. Just before the guards reach him, three large legs appear and kick them away. Someone asks who they are, and Donquixote Doflamingo, sitting atop Diamante, Trebol and Pica, declares that they are there to save the country, and then introduces himself. The people are shocked that pirates of all people would come to their rescue, even though they did defeat the Riku army. Doflamingo secretly is wishing for the people to embrace the violence going on. Doflamingo, after kicking Riku off his horse, orders Trebol, Diamante, and Pica to get rid of the people that are making this country so toxic. The people start cheering for Doflamingo as Thunder Soldier ends the flashback, explaining how Doflamingo took over in just one night. 
Usopp comments that the story is something only seen in nightmares. Robin remarks on how truly cunning Doflamingo is while a crying Franky calls his actions unforgivable. Gancho sadly admits that, at the time, the dwarves had believed Riku to be bad as well, saying how ashamed he is to have doubted the king. Usopp then concludes that Riku was probably charged for his war crimes and executed, but Thunder Soldier tells him that in fact the king is still alive. He explains that Doflamingo really liked Viola's ability, which Viola used to her advantage and struck a deal with him. She would follow his orders as long as he did not kill her father. She now serves as a subordinate for Doflamingo, working in his executive staff under the name Violet. The soldier adds that the king is still alive somewhere in the country thanks to her. But one cannot possibly know the suffering she and her father have gone through. He adds that the same is true for the loyal soldiers involved. Robin asks if they were executed and Thunder Soldier replies that some were while others declared their loyalty to Doflamingo then and there, becoming his personal guard. Franky gets angry at the soldiers for their disloyalty. A brief flashback shows Doflamingo exonerating the soldiers, saying that they were under orders from the king, and asks the people if he could take them in as subordinates. Thunder Soldier adds that he also made a difficult decision. He explains that those who were killed and those who defected only make up a small portion of the country's army. 
The soldier goes on to say that he, too, should have lost his memories, asking Franky if he remembered what he saw in town, recalling their conversation with the toy Milo. He explains that while toys retain their memories, everyone around them completely forgets their existence. The soldier declares this to be the greatest tragedy of Dressrosa, and is even worse for those who are toys. Robin asks if that means that some toys have forgotten who they are. And the soldier tells her she is correct. He goes on to say that all those who become toys remember their hatred of Doflamingo. Doflamingo might have put those with rebellious ideas in the shadows, but by the same token is also making a powder keg ready to explode. The key to the dwarves' strategy is the number of tragedies caused by Doflamingo. Franky realizes that the plan is to shift the battle in their favor by having every toy rebel and fight with them. Usopp interrupts, reminding them their objective is to destroy the factory, after which they can oust Doflamingo out of the country. Usopp tries to get Robin on his side but she declares Doflamingo's actions unforgivable. 
Leo begins to rally the troops, saying that what happened this morning can only be seen as a call to war, adding that it cannot be a coincidence that "Usoland" arrived when he did and it is a sign from above to fight now. Upon further inquiry, Usopp learns that the event from this morning to which Leo is referring is Doflamingo's fake resignation. The army saw it as a miracle, only to find out that the newspapers ran a false report, crushing their hopes. That was when they decided to put an end to their oppression this day. Usopp, Robin, and Franky look at them in shock, all apologizing for their actions in their minds. 
Changing to the scrap heap under the Colosseum, Riku is talking to Chinjao, saying he heard the pirate retired, yet he still is in charge of his fleet. Chinjao replies he needs someone to inherit the Happo Navy since he doesn't have any grandchildren. Riku comments that no one has it easy these days, while thinking to himself that something felt off about Chinjao's statement, remembering the same feeling ten years ago. While they are talking, Boo, Abdullah and Jeet have all been turned into toys.  Outside the building, Luffy is calling while laughing to Zoro and Kin'emon through a window.

As Luffy is talking with Zoro and Kin'emon about everything going on, Bellamy is approaching him from the side, saying he finally found him. Bellamy is about to attack Luffy, claiming it is nothing personal, but he is doing it to become one of the leaders of the Donquixote Family. However, he begins having second thoughts and begins to back out.  Dellinger appears behind him revealing that Bellamy is considered an eyesore for the family, and that he intends to kill him. He also admitted, by a slip of the tongue, that the order for Bellamy's disposal came from Doflamingo himself. He then kicks Bellamy and begins to punish him. 
At the iron bridge of Dressrosa, Law and Doflamingo are seen clashing. Law manages to scar Doflamingo in the face, but Doflamingo has the upper hand in the fight overall and manages to knock Law down. Diamante calls to inform his captain about Violet's betrayal, to which he replies that he had that already figured out, since he saw Black Leg showing up out of the blue. Doflamingo orders Diamante to send Lao G to the entrance of the Smile Factory and handle the entertainment of the crowd in the Colosseum by himself. Doflamingo has Law's plan figured out. He knows Law wants to stall him there in order to provide time for his allies to destroy the factory, but still wonders why, although he claims to be using them, he has so much faith in Luffy and his crew. Law answers that he believes "D" will bring forth another storm. 
Luffy meets with Zoro and Kin'emon at the Colosseum and Zoro complains to Luffy for not inviting him to participate at the tournament. Some marine sees through Zoro's disguise and informs Vice Admiral Bastille, who figures out that Lucy is none other than Straw Hat Luffy, but still decides to do nothing for the time being, not wanting to compromise his mission to arrest all the fighters of the tournament. Going through the list of fighters they are supposed to arrest, however, the Marines find it odd that they only recognize Don Chinjao's name. 
Kin'emon calls Sanji via Den Den Mushi, who in turn calls Usopp, so that all the Straw Hat Pirates can have a meeting and discuss their stories so far. Franky informs his crew mates that an anti-Donquixote army exists, the Riku army, consisting of dwarves and led by Thunder Soldier (whom he and Luffy met earlier at the Colosseum), who intend to act fast and overthrow Doflamingo today. Luffy realizes the soldier is the same Rebecca was talking about and, fearing for his life, asks Franky to prevent the army from acting. However, Franky states that he sympathizes with the Dwarves and wants to help them defeat their oppressor and reveal the darkness under Dressrosa's bliss, despite that going against their original plan. Hearing their crew mate's plea, Sanji orders his group to turn back and head for Dressrosa, and Luffy allows Franky to go all out, saying that they soon will come to join them. 
Fujitora and his subordinates have arrived at the shores of Dressrosa on their ship. A marine informs the Admiral that there is a skirmish in the city, to which Issho states that they must hurry. In the city, Kin'emon and Zoro witness huge buildings being cut in half and wonder what this is all about. Suddenly, a huge explosion takes place right in front of them. When the smoke clears, they see Doflamingo standing and on the ground a badly beaten and bleeding Law. Doflamingo, wearing a serious face mocks Law for thinking he was a match for him. He then takes out a pistol and shoots Law three times, to everyone's surprise. Luffy calls his ally's name in desperation. Law is thinking of someone named Cora while slowly losing consciousness.

As the Straw Hat Pirates yells out across the Den Den Mushi, questioning what the commotion is about, Doflamingo soothes the citizens, blaming Law for the "Abdication Incident" that occurred earlier that day. When Luffy angrily demands to know what the Shichibukai has done, Doflamingo states that it is none of his business and that, since Law was his former subordinate, he is entitled to "discipline" him. 
Zoro then quickly charges at Doflamingo, asking Kin'emon to take Law out of danger. The marines ask Vice-Admiral Bastille permission to apprehend the pirate hunter, but he orders them to stay put. The samurai quickly informs everyone across the line of what has happened while agreeing with Zoro that they both should be on their toes. Doflamingo recognizes Kin'emon and assumes that the boy he saw on the ship was his son, Momonosuke. 
As Zoro tries to land a swing on Doflamingo, Admiral Fujitora appears out of nowhere and blocks his attack. Using his ability the Admiral pins Zoro down, however the swordsman responds sending a flying slash, which gets repelled rather effortlessly. At the same time, Kin'emon manages to reach Law, but before the samurai could recover him, Doflamingo kicks him back. Luffy tries to help his friends, but only then realizes that the bars in the windows of the Colosseum are made of Seastone. The entire crew is then shocked to find out that the man assisting Doflamingo is actually a Marine Admiral. 
Doflamingo and Issho float above their opponents using their abilities, taking Law with them, and plan to head towards the palace. The Shichibukai promises to explain everything to the Admiral, who replies that he will reserve judgment until their conversation is complete. Zoro and Kin'emon realize the Marines have seen through their disguise and decide to make a run for it. Luffy claims he can still hear Law's voice and Zoro tells him to hurry up and find a way out, while they distract their pursuers. 
It is then, that they hear the crew members aboard the Thousand Sunny panicking over the Den Den Mushi. Their ship is being approached by, what seems to be, a huge talking ship, which belongs to the Big Mom Pirates, although Sanji can not tell if the Emperor herself is on board. Pekoms and Tamago confirm that Caesar Clown is on the Sunny and state their intention to sink the ship and retrieve the scientist. Caesar explains that he once stole research funds from Big Mom in the past, and that is probably why he is now being targeted. As the ship opens fire, Franky asks the Sunny team to lead the Emperor away from Dressrosa so that their mission does not get compromised. 
Nami explains that they need to head to Zo, for three reasons: firstly to keep Momonosuke and Caesar away from Doflamingo; secondly because if they lead the Emperor's crew towards Dressrosa, the chaos will ruin the revolution; and lastly, to ensure that Law's sacrifice is not in vain, and to allow Franky, Robin and Usopp to carry out the plan and destroy the SMILE factory. 
Luffy approves of the plan to head to Zo and gives Sanji permission to fire back at Big Mom's ship. Franky's group prepares to head towards the SMILE factory, while Luffy plans to head to the palace with Zoro and Kin'emon in order to defeat Doflamingo and recover their ally.
Meanwhile, a mysterious figure appears in the Colosseum.

Dellinger is seen brutally harming Bellamy as he mocks him. Bellamy attempts to run stating he needs to hear this from Doflamingo but Dellinger easily catches him. Just as Dellinger is about to give the finishing blow, Bartolomeo shows up and protects him.
Bellamy is seen panting and hurt badly on the ground, with Bartolomeo having formed a barrier to protect him from Dellinger. Dellinger injures his leg trying to break through the barrier and shouts to Bartolomeo to get out of the way and let him finish his mission, but Bartolomeo refuses. Having been given a new mission by Diamante to go and guard the SMILE factory, Dellinger decides to leave Bellamy be but promises to deal with both of them later. Bellamy wonders why a stranger like Bartolomeo was helping him, to which Bartolomeo replies that once he fights along with someone, he considers him a friend. 
Back at the Flower Hill, Thunder Soldier is briefing everyone about his plan, called Dressrosa Operation SOP. He goes on to explain the existence of a secret underground world operating in Dressrosa, which involves illegal transactions. The factory, which is also tied to the underworld, function with the labor of the captured Tontatta citizens and the people turned to toys. The resistance has been building a secret tunnel, which they will now use to enter the area and destroy the factory. Before that, however, they must succeed in defeating an agent of Doflamingo, in order to make her power lose effect thus returning the toys into their human selves and restoring the citizens' memories. Hopefully, by achieving that, more people would join their cause. When asked by Usopp where that Devil Fruit user is, Thunder Soldier answers she must be at the underground port and, due to her Devil fruit's side effect, which has kept her from aging, she is guarded by Trebol himself. Usopp rejoices, when he hears he is up against a little girl and a pumped up Franky asks the Dwarves to take them to the underground tunnel. 
Back at the Colosseum, Luffy, who was looking for an exit, bumps into Bartolomeo and Bellamy. Bartolomeo, excited to meet his idol again, asks him reluctantly if he met with Zoro. When Luffy states his desire to find an exit, Bellamy tells him that such a thing does not exist in the Colosseum, because it was built in a way to prevent the contestants from escaping once they enter. Luffy, surprised, asks Bellamy to show him the exit, since he must know where it is, being Doflamingo's subordinate. Bellamy shouts he would never betray his captain, but says that he will be heading for the exit himself, so if Luffy was to follow him he could find the exit, too. Bartolomeo wonders why Luffy would give up the fight for the Mera Mera no Mi, to which Luffy replies that his friends' lives are more important. Bartolomeo promises to get the fruit and give it to Luffy, which was his original plan anyway. 
At that point, a man walks in stating that the fire fruit cannot go to Straw Hat Luffy. Bartolomeo confronts him for speaking to his idol like that, but the man simply pushes him away. Upon looking at the mysterious man, Luffy is greatly shocked and starts shedding tears of joy. 
When Luffy finaly finds his way out, he meets with Zoro and Kin'emon again, with the latter providing animal outfits for the three of them, in order to escape the Marines and leave the area unnoticed. Zoro is irritated by Luffy's non-stop crying and tells him to cut it out. Luffy, still sobbing and shocked, wonders how is it possible for "that man" to be still alive. 
A young woman is seen sitting on top of a bunch of defeated men, speaking through a Den Den Mushi, stating that Robin is in this country and that she desires to see her again. The woman is none other than Koala, who has become a member of the Revolutionary Army and is a Fish-Man Karate assistant instructor. She goes on to ask the receiver of the call, if he met the man he was looking for and if he had any news on the situation underground. Then the man is shown, who is the same man seen talking to Luffy earlier, wearing "Lucy"'s attire, stating that he has to go get Ace's fruit back and inherit his will. 
A flashback of Ace's grave is then shown, with three cups in front of it, confirming that the mysterious man was none other than Sabo, who was presumed to be long dead by his brothers.

With the Army moving out, the Thunder Soldier, Robin, Usopp and Franky move out. While Leo shows them a secret passage to the underground, Usopp notes its very narrow and Franky is too large to go through as he and Robin alone are barely able to fit. Leo appologizes mentioning large humans weren't meant for the passage. Franky asks how he can find another way in and the soldier reveals he can go through the Toy House above ground, but is against that idea. He reveals it's only called a house because of its appearance, but there are no beds inside and all the toys continue to work even in night. Usopp then asks if that means that all the toys over Dressrosa are tired even now from working all day and night and the soldier says its true with the exeption of himself. Franky decides to go through the house alone stating if he causes a commotion up there then they can take out Sugar much easier. 
Franky arrives at the toy house as the lower members recognize him as "Cyborg Franky". They then report to Senor Pink. Pink is seen eating a tomato while a woman tells him not to eat it since it will get messy. But he ignores her and rips her swimsuit off to use it as a napkin. However, the women are swooned by him while he tells him they should go after younger men despite thier claim. When he says he doesn't like children, they swoon again calling him "hard-boiled". Franky doesn't seem to care what's going on and uses his coup do vent and attacks the house. As that is going on, Doflamingo, Diamante, Pica and Trebol can hear the commotion via den den mushi. 
In the underground tunnel, the dwarves explains to Usopp the size of the Donquixote Family and the identities and strengths of the officers who are running the operations. As they reach the end of the tunnel, the army find themselves directly underneath the palace plateau where the huge harbor is located. Unnoticed by anyone, the army prepares to find their target, Sugar who is guarded by Trebol himself. They all arrive underground into a portyard as Usopp reacts shocked by the size of it.

The colosseum D block battle is almost over with nearly 30 fighters remaining with Rebecca among them. One fighter, Suiliman, fights Rebecca while Orlumbus defeats Agyo. 
At the Hidden Harbor, Usopp learned from the dwarves that Thunder Soldier left the group in order to assassinate Doflamingo at his palace, leaving Usopp in command of the army much to his disbelief. Though they were nearly caught by some soldiers the dwarves easily subdued them with a fighting style called "Tonttata Combat" and their clothes were given to Usopp and Robin for disguise. 
Near the Harbor elevator, many soldiers were rushing towards the elevator to see the battle between Franky and Senor Pink, unaware that Thunder Soldier and a few dwarves were hiding inside a crate in the lift. Seeing no other way, Thunder Soldier assaults the soldiers in order to hijack the lift. During battle, he recalls his training of Rebecca to teach her battle instinct. He then declares his goal to restore Dressrosa to King Riku's rule. 
At the colosseum, an unexplained event caused every fighter in the arena to fall unconscious one after another. Before anyone could speculate what happened, an unidentified fighter is seen getting up in the arena.

In the D block battle, after 20 contestants are knocked out, Gatz sees that someone is attempting to stand in the middle of the block, and that person is Rebecca. As it is announced that Rebecca is the block winner, the crowd begins booing her claiming that she must have cheated. Meanwhile, at the prisoner gladiator quarters, Rebecca's friends cheer for her victory. 
Outside the Colosseum, Vice Admiral Bastille tells a marine about the Kamaitachi of Rommel. He says that sometime ago in the kingdom of Rommel a strange wind was blowing during the night, that had the power to cut people up. After a series of mysterious events, the Marines decided to send a battle ship to investigate the matter. Many Marines lost their lives to that "wind" but they finally managed to find out that the culprit behind the wind was actually a man named Hakuba. Despite not being able to capture him, they deduced that Hakuba appears in the towns where a certain pirate stops. 
In the Colosseum, Rebecca sees Cavendish unconscious before her and she remembers that as she was fighting Suleiman in the battle, suddenly Cavendish fell asleep. The other gladiators noticed this and took the opportunity to take him out. As they were about to attack him, Cavendish woke up with a sinister expression and slashed all the other gladiators so fast, that they didn't even see him coming. However, Rebecca was able to see through his movements and barely managed to avoid his strike, which hit her helmet instead. Cavendish then fell asleep again returning to his normal form. 
Back outside the Colosseum, Bastille continues with his explanation about Hakuba, telling the soldiers that Cavendish turns into Hakuba when he falls asleep and that Hakuba was the one who went out to sea after committing various crimes. The other Marines start sympathizing with Cavendish, but Bastille corrects them saying that Cavendish actually enjoys the popularity his alter ego offers him. Finally, Bastille notes that while Cavendish is a strong swordsman, Hakuba is even better than him in terms of strength and speed and it's just unfortunate for him that Cavendish's ability doesn't work well in a match-style fight. 
In the Colosseum the crowd accuses Rebecca of secretly carrying a gun. Lucy who was watching this, next to Bartolomeo, says that it probably wasn't just luck that allowed Rebecca to avoid those attacks, but anyways he wouldn't let anyone touch the Mera Mera no Mi. 
In the palace, Doflamingo and the captured Riku Doldo III are observing the outcome of the battles. Doflamingo is certain that Luffy won't make it out of the Colosseum and that Franky, who is causing a ruckus at the moment, will be defeated by his associates. He states that their only pieces left are Zoro, Kin'emon, Robin and Sogeking. An unconscious Law is shown chained to the heart seat. 
Luffy, Zoro and Kin'emon reach the palace's entrance, as Wicca revealed that it was one of the ways to enter the factory. There, they met Viola who claimed that she was waiting for them to lead them inside the palace.

In the Colosseum, it is announced that Diamante will be making an appearance. Upon hearing this the crowd begins to cheer for him. Meanwhile, the fighters of block D that got injured are being rushed to the infirmary and along with them is Cavendish who is still asleep.
Rebecca goes to tell Lucy that she has made it to the finals, but she immediately notices something different about Lucy. Sabo who is dressed as Lucy says that he more or less knows about Rebecca and that things could get messy in the finals and he cannot guarantee her safety. He also mentions that he does not mean any harm and that everything in Dressrosa is just a facade similar to the place where he was brought up.
At the Royal Plateau near the entrance to the lift, Viola, who just met Luffy , Zoro and Kin'emon, states that she has a pass that will allow them to board the lift leading to the Royal Palace, but if they get discovered it will all be over and in their disguises, Luffy, Zoro, and Kin'emon will draw too much attention. At that moment Zoro remembers that she was the woman that Sanji went after earlier. Viola says that Sanji went to defend their ship but they already knew this. Wicca then peeks out of Zoro's disguise and sees Viola who says that she has been watching her all this time with the help of her ability. She reveals knowing about how the dwarves are working together with the man that took the place of her sister who died and raised Rebecca, the Thunder Soldier. Wicca gets emotional and starts crying and Viola thanks her for believing in her father.
At the entrance to the Toy House, Franky is fighting with the guards. They then realize that they cannot defeat him and begin to run. Senor Pink is brushing his teeth with a shoebrush. It is revealed that he ate Sui Sui no Mi which allows him to freely swim through floors and walls, but he says that he will not use his power to flee from enemies which earns him praise from his comrades. Franky fires a missile and Senor takes it right on the face without making any attempt to dodge it. Everyone wonders why didn't he try to avoid the hit, but one of his soldiers says that the real reason he took Franky's attack was to save his comrade. Then from behind him Machvise, who is complaining about his stomach hurting, jumps in the air and smashes on the ground in at attempt to crush Franky, but Franky dodges him. Suddenly, a group of Marines along with Vice-Admiral Bastille appear surrounding the area intending to arrest Franky.
At the Royal Palace, Doflamingo tells Admiral Fujitora that he made a wise choice and that he does not intend on forming an alliance with him. Fujitora replies that if Luffy decides to fight him there will be a lot of destruction and protecting the citizens from that destruction is his "Justice" and that is what he has utilized the Marines for. As for Doflamingo he will deal with him later. Doflamingo is surprised by this statement but, Fujitora continues and says that he accepted the position of Admiral because there were certain things that he wanted to change and one of those things is the total discarding of the Shichibukai system! He also reveals that he knows about the story of Doflamingo hijacking Dressrosa and it is only because he was allowed to run rampant that the country reached such a state.
Upon realizing that Fujitora knows all about his secrets, Doflamingo begins to attack him. Fujitora blocks his attack and continues saying that the balance of the Three Great Powers will be shattered and if Doflamingo keeps on committing crime after crime, the bounty on his head will keep on increasing after the Shichibukai system is abolished. After finding out his true intentions Doflamingo says that he is going to kill him but Fujitora says that they should continue being friends for the time being. From that point onwards he would protect Dressrosa and ignore all its malpractices. He also says that no matter how much Doflamingo wants the world to be stable it is bound to stir up because it is the year of the Levely.
Luffy is surprised to learn that Viola is a princess and assumes that since she's is a princess and Rebbecca is the granddaughter of the King so she must be Rebecca's mother but she tells him that Rebecca is her sister's daughter and therefore her niece. She then knocks open a door leading to a secret passage whose location was known only to the Riku Family. In order to use the lift, Zoro suggests Luffy would take a boulder and go to the top and then the others would stand on the platform and due to his and the boulder's weight they would reach the top. However, Viola does not seen to be comfortable with this plan.
In the Colosseum, Koala somehow manages to enter the stadium just in time to watch the finals. The ring that was specially constructed for the final battle is revealed and Sabo dressed as Lucy is the first to enter. As he enters the ring, in his mind he asks Ace to watch over him.

The battle is set to begin as all four contestants and Diamante enter the ring. Gatz reminds the audience of the top tier Logia Devil Fruit waiting for the victor. Although Lucy makes a mental note of Burgess as a member of the Blackbeard Pirates, Rebecca in turn makes a note of Lucy, saying that he is not the same man. However, the group is interrupted as three gladiators rush at Rebecca, saying that they refuse to be beaten by her and that they cannot accept such an outcome. Diamante steps in, telling the gladiators that "results are results" and holds his cape in front of his body. The gladiators rush at him but only injure themselves and break their swords. Diamante announces that this is a result of his Devil Fruit, the Hira Hira no Mi. He reveals that his cape is actually made of steel, only fluttering like a cape due to his powers. Consequently, he 'flutters' his sword into a bull shape and defeats the gladiators easily.
Diamante also informs them that the new fighting fish are "befitting" for such an occasion and are sensitive to the smell of blood. Indeed, a fighting fish charges onto the bridge section and takes the gladiators with it. Gatz informs the audience that these reach contestants inside the ring and are more deadly as they are the "boss class fighting fish of each school". He also reveals that one fish carries a chest with the Mera Mera no Mi inside. Diamante makes this grand announcement, where the victor is the last man standing and the one to retrieve the Devil Fruit from this particular fish. The gong goes off, signalling the start of the five man battle royale.
At the royal palace, Viola tells the others that the doors lead to the ramparts and that there is a secret entrance to which they'll take. She also states that they would have no chance of toppling Doflamingo if the top brass were involved, especially Pica. However, Kin'emon discovers that Luffy is missing but not for long as Luffy attacks the palace doors with a Gigant Pistol. Luffy announces the doors to be open, to which Viola tells the others to hurry through the doors as it is the fastest way of entry. One of the guards recognizes Luffy and informs Doflamingo due to the apparent contradiction. Doflamingo listens as he watches Lucy dodge a fighting fish on screen. Baby 5 tries to confirm the identity of the intruders but the guard replies with the same: Straw Hat Luffy, Zoro and Viola are the intruders. At this Doflamingo becomes extremely enraged asking who is running around the Colosseum as Lucy.

As Luffy, Zoro and Viola advance through the castle, they notice that no guards are chasing them. At this moment, a face begins to form from the castle walls, getting bigger until it produces a full body. Viola curses as this stone monster is Pica of the Spade seat. 
At the Royal Palace, Luffy's group stands before Pica, an executive officer. Viola reveals that he has eaten the Ishi Ishi no Mi which allows him to merge himself with any type of rock and he has currently merged himself with the palace which is made entirely of stone.This allows him to control the entire palace. He then attempts to crush Luffy and his group between the walls of the palace. 
Meanwhile, at the Underground Factory, Usopp notes that toys just keep coming out of the Factory proving that Sugar is in the Factory. He then asks the Dwarves what the tentacle-like things that are connected to the tower are. They explain to him that the one in the center is a lift that leads to the palace while the pipe-like things are tubes that reach the Scrap Heap. It takes people and broken toys from various places and drops them into the Scrap Heap which is below the Officer Tower. 
Inside the Officer Tower, Cavendish is with Trebol and Sugar. Trebol tells him that he is in the Officer Tower which is a Factory-like room from toys are continuously spit out and that it is also known by another name. It is revealed that Trebol has eaten the Beta Beta no Mi. Trebol says that he will not listen to what a brat like him has to say. Cavendish orders Sugar to get the sticky substance by which he is bound off him, but she instead turns him into a toy and makes a contract with him without him even agreeing. The contract states that he will not harm humans and will bow to the orders of the Doflamingo Family. Almost immediately Cavendish loses his free will. Trebol states that now no one remembers who he is and now onwards he will, as a toy, have to work and die for Doflamingo. As a toy he is forced to work with the other toys to smuggle weapons. It is revealed that the other contestants who were taken to the infirmary were also made into toys and are being forced to smuggle weapons. 
Usopp, Robin, and their group of dwarves reach the room where Trebol and Sugar are located. The dwarves state that Sugar loves eating grapes. So their plan is to put a solid ball of the world's hottest spice, Tatabababasco, which they've made to look like a grape, into her basket of grapes. The seasoning is so spicy that when it was tested 50 times on the dwarves all of them fainted and 18 of them were on the verge of dying. Usopp tells Leo to go ahead and execute the plan and he will stay back and cover him although in his mind he intends to run away if the plan fails. Leo steps up to place the ball of Tatababasco into the basket as the other dwarves cheer him on. He says that when Sugar cries out, it will be the sign that all the toys will become human again and all their forgotten memories will return and the evil deeds of Doflamingo be brought to light and his true colors will be revealed to everyone! He shouts that he is going to save his friends and return the Kingdom back to King Riku.

Trebol notices a fly, and using his devil fruit powers, he shoots the fly with enough force to knock it through the wall of the officer tower. This scares all the dwarves, but Leo boasts that even if he can hit a fly, he will not be able to hit him, and runs towards the tower. As the other dwarves and Usopp cheer Leo on, Robin stops him. 
At the Colosseum, as a fighting fish jumps towards him, rather than dodging them Burgess attacks them back with his Surge Elbow causing the fish to crash into one side of the Colosseum. The Colosseum workers order for stretchers for the audience who were injured by the fish and tell Burgess not to injure the audience but he simply laughs it off while the rest of the audience look on in shock. Then the Fighting fish with the Mera Mera no Mi on its back charges towards the contestants in the ring. As it rushes towards Rebecca, Sabo quickly tries to get a hold of the crate containing the Mera Mera no Mi. Diamante assuming that the person under the disguise of Lucy is Luffy and attacks him to prevent him from gaining possession of the crate containing the Mera Mera no Mi. However Sabo breaks Diamante's weapon with his pipe. Burgess attempts to take advantage of the opportunity and take down both of them at the same time. As Burgess takes his stance to prepare for his Surge Elbow, Sabo prepares to take the attack head-on with his Dragon Claw. He reinforces his attack with Busoshoku Haki and clashes with Burgess. Much to everyone's surprise, Burgess's gauntlet shatters due to the force of the collision. Diamante however, realizes the difference between Luffy's and Sabo's fighting style and begins to doubt whether Lucy really is Luffy. Upon seeing the abilities of the other finalists, Rebecca begins to doubt her own strength, but after recalling the words of Thunder Soldier and Acilia she resolves to fight with killing intent, and charges at Diamante with her sword drawn.
In the lift, Thunder Soldier defeats the last of Doflamingo's underlings, but the dwarves are surprised to hear one other voice. Lao G reveals himself, them darts forward and beats the soldier into the wall with one blow. Kabu tries to come to the aid of his commander but is easily beaten by Lao G after the latter puts on his glasses to see his tiny assailant. As the dwarves express shock at the presence of an officer in the lift, Lao G explains that he intended to go to the Toy House, but ended up taking the lift down to the trade port instead. He affirms his stance as protecting the Toy House and refuses to let them in. However, Thunder Soldier suggests otherwise. 
The scene moves to the Rampart Tower B-1, where Luffy is seen to have used Gomu Gomu no Fusen to protect Zoro and Viola after Pica smashed the walls together. After Zoro destroys the walls around them, Luffy and Zoro struggle against Pica to no avail. 
In the Rampart Tower B-2, Kin'emon is knocked over, and gets up to see the walls and stairs around him are warped. Upon seeing that the stairs now lead upwards, Wicca expresses a sigh of relief, telling Kin'emon that they need to go up to reach the lift to the Toy House below, and berating him for refusing to listen up until now. When she remarks on the security in the palace, Kin'emon places a rock on his head and transforms into a grinning, evil figure.
At the Toy House, Marines go flying as a result of Franky's attack. Bastille grows impatient, and sends a flying slash at him. Dellinger arrives at the scene, to see Franky emerge unharmed and send a Coup de Vent back at the vice admiral. Senor Pink comments on the incompetence of the Marines, and Dellinger grows eager to fight, but Senor Pink tells him to be careful because of how perverted he is.
Back with Luffy's group, Pica reforms his stone statue and blocks their path with a wall. Zoro destroys it and tells Luffy and Viola to move on, saying he will fight Pica alone.

Trebol notices a fly, and using his devil fruit powers, he shoots the fly with enough force to knock it through the wall of the executive tower. This scares all the dwarves, but Leo boasts that even if he can hit a fly, he will not be able to hit him, and runs towards the tower. As the other dwarves and Usopp cheer Leo on, Robin stops him. 
Inside the SMILE Factory, an overseer is forcing the dwarves to work in the SMILE fields. He remarks that even though five hundred dwarves were kidnapped, their comrades still did not notice anything due to their naivete; and since he is not going to get any more slaves, he will work the current ones to his heart's content. The man complains that they are too slow and whips them. As he inspects the fruits they have collected in a wagon, he notices that they have not even become SMILEs yet. He kicks the wagon, knocking the fruits to the ground, and berates the dwarves. Although the dwarves are good with growing fruit, they complain that SMILE is an unusual fruit, but he is unconvinced and says they are just making excuses. One of the dwarves begs him to let his companion rest, and that the food they were given was rotten. The overseer lies and tells them that the only medicine that can heal their princess is SMILE, and that only one out of every ten SMILES can be used. They ask if they can be allowed to see the princess, but the man pretends to cry, saying that the "rare disease" might be infectious. The dwarves believe him, and, moved by his affection, and say that they will try their best to grow SMILEs. 
Outside the executive tower, Leo is angry at Robin for stopping him, but she explains that if he were to just run in, he would have died. The fly that Trebol shot was hit clean between the eyes, meaning he could easily have attacked Leo. It is still too dangerous to target Sugar while she is being guarded by him. 
Bian creates a distraction at the port with some pink hornets, and Robin reports the disturbance to Trebol, saying that some pirates are demanding to speak with an executive about their payment. Hearing this, Trebol wonders that they do not fear Joker. He notices that Robin is not the usual person reporting, but she simply lies, saying that the other person has gone to eat. She also says that some people have been wounded. Trebol leaves to take care of the situation, but posts extra guards with orders to notify him if anything happens. 
As they reach the executive tower, the dwarves ask Usopp why he will not fight Sugar. He bluffs that if he were to fight, the battle would be over instantly. He also says that this will help them gain confidence, but if anything happens he will be there to help them defeat Sugar. 
Entering the tower, the dwarves quickly surround Sugar. They tell her that they will take back their companions enslaved in the factory, and that they will make her pay. She replies that she does not know what they are talking about, and the dwarves believe her without wondering about it. Usopp tells them she was fooling them, and Sugar wonders who told them, as they are too naive to realize it by themselves. She drops her basket of grapes, saying that she didn't expect them to do anything for at least a year, and that somebody must have encouraged this, The dwarves charge at her, with the aim of holding her down and opening her mouth to feed her the tobasco ball. Sugar is upset somewhat that the dwarves seem to think she's weak, just because she's a young girl. Some of the dwarves charge in, but she turns them into toy bears. She makes a contract with them, forcing them to obey her orders. Usopp, watching this, is shocked, but the rest of the dwarves lose all memory of the dwarves who were turned into toys, and it appears to them that a group of toys suddenly appeared before them. Sugar gives the toys orders to slaughter everyone in the tower. The toy dwarves do not want to fight their companions but cannot disobey the orders given by Sugar due to their contract. The dwarves charge at the toys, who try to tell them that they are their allies but are unable to. 
Sugar calls Trebol on a Den Den Mushi, telling him return immediately, and that it is a trap. As he turns back, Robin points out that the pirates that were creating trouble are right before them. Trebol leaps at them, preparing to stop the fight, but they tell him that the disruption was due to hornets in the cargo, and they were holding up their end of the bargain. He turns around to see Robin running, and realizes that he has been tricked. He leaps again, catching her in his slime, but it is a decoy clone. He recognizes her face before the clone vanishes, and realizes that the Straw Hat Pirates are after Sugar. He grabs a ship with his ability, and slams it into the executive tower.

The dwarves, Usopp, and Sugar are all shocked as a giant ship crashes into the room. Even the toy workers stop to look at the incident in astonishment. Trebol's subordinates cry out that he has lost it, and comment on how the tower is now in ruins.
Meanwhile Zoro is continuing his fight with Pica while Luffy and Viola run off fending off Pica's stone strikes.
Robin finds Usopp, who is apparently pretending to be knocked out, and wakes him up. He says that a "duck came flying through the roof," and Robin tells him to keep quiet, and that Leo's group has been captured.
Sure enough, the dwarves are being interrogated by Trebol and Sugar (who angrily kicks him for throwing the ship). They claim that they will never reveal their partners' names, though Trebol lies that Usopp is his dear friend, prompting Leo to give away the name. As he mocks that Usopp isn't his friend Leo screams in horror that he fell for another trick. A similar situation follows with Sugar asking about Thunder Soldier.
Trebol notes that the dwarves have quite a plan in action, to which they respond that it doesn't matter since the Donquixote Pirates are already done for. The officer simply drops some of the sticky substance onto them, which is flammable. After throwing his lighter into the substance it explodes. Usopp finds Leo seriously injured and advises that he and the dwarves get out of the harbor. Leo laments that he can't beat Trebol, but says that Operation SOP must be completed, because if so then Thunder Soldier can crush Doflamingo. He says that the "captain is waiting for them".
The scene changes to the fight between Lao G and Thunder Soldier, with the former almost finished defeating the latter. Knocked down, Thunder Soldier recalls the events that morning. The prisoner gladiators and the dwarves cheer as the newspaper claims Doflamingo has quit the Shichibukai, but Thunder Soldier only sadly says that it is not true.
Then he tries to console Rebecca, who is upset about the entire thing and cries about being "cast down from the heavens to hell". She says that everyone's spirits are breaking, even remembering someone saying that the only thing to look forward to is execution, and angrily cries that achieving a thousand wins in the colosseum to be freed is not hope but rather a wall of despair. She even remarks that the statue of Kyros is nothing but a lie made by the prisoners as a preservation of hope, and if she has to dream the impossible, she would rather put all her hopes into the competition for the Mera Mera no Mi. Thunder Soldier scolds her that she is only 16, and that she is too young and weak to take on the competition. Rebecca tears up and says that he is not her real father, that he is the one who is going to get beaten up, and that he is nothing but a toy soldier. He simply agrees, and walks away; Rebecca quickly apologizes and pleads him not to start the operation.
Back in the present, Rebecca, who has not yet gone to the offensive side, seemingly angrily attacks Diamante. He notices that the sword is blunt; he mocks that the battle is one of life and death, and simply smashes her with a club he made with a folded sheet of iron. The crowd cheers the Hero of the colosseum, while Lucy orders "Muscle Melon" to protect Rebecca, to which he barks that his name is Bartolomeo. Meanwhile Diamante laughs and sarcastically asks if he knew how her mother, Scarlett, died. He says that he even got a little emotional seeing Thunder Soldier cry so hard. Rebecca remembers her mother saying that she will be back with some food, but came back dead and carried by the toy soldier.
Back at the palace Lao G gets distracted by the tremors Pica is causing, and soon ambushed by Kabu's group. The dwarves tell Thunder Soldier to go ahead, though he worries about their safety and notes that they will all die. Kabu reassures the captain by saying that Leo is almost done with their part, and that all he needs to do is shoot Doflamingo.
Underground Usopp asks Leo why they are so reliant on the toy. Leo explains that while the other toys where all assigned contracts to obey Doflamingo, Thunder Soldier was the only exception. And because he was left with a free will, he is the only one capable of fighting against Doflamingo. In fact if it weren't for him the dwarves would have all become slaves as well, due to their naivety. He ends with a speech in which Thunder Soldier reveals himself to be Kyros, the strongest gladiator in the Colosseum.

At the royal palace's first floor, after fighting through several of Doflamingo's men, Rampo, Kabu, and Thunder Soldier were intercepted by Gladius. The two dwarves attempted to attack him in order for the Thunder Soldier escape, but the officer effortlessly caught them. Gladius then attacked them with his Devil Fruit powers, knocking them out with the explosions by rupture of his arms. He then went after Thunder Soldier, stating he can't outrun him as a toy. He tackled the toy soldier from behind and, while explaining his ability, inflated the soldier's head. Right before it exploded, Luffy knocked Gladius away with a Jet Stamp, saving Thunder Soldier from certain demise. Luffy was about to continue the fight with the officer, but Viola pulled him away, stating that Gladius was too dangerous. Upon seeing Viola, Gladius ranted about her betrayal and exploded his helmet, hurting her with the helmet's shards, managing to wound Viola which forced Luffy to carry her. Seeing no stairs to advance further up, Viola, Luffy, and Thunder Soldier jumped out a window and Luffy used his leg to stretch to the second floor conveniently outside the Room of Suits. As they overheard Doflamingo trying to get Law to tell him what the Straw Hats' plan was, Luffy asked if he can attack Doflamingo, only to be denied and told to wait by Viola, while Thunder Soldier places his faith in Usopp to gon with the plan.
After losing sight of them, Gladius ran into Kin'emon, disguised as the Doflamingo with Wicca hiding in his pocket. Fooled by the disguise, Gladius informed him that Kanjuro had disappeared from the scrap house.
At the underground trade port, Robin used her Devil Fruit powers in an attempt to knock out Sugar with the spice the dwarves were going to use. Unfortunately, she let her guard down for a moment and Sugar touched one of her arms, transforming her into a toy.
Trebol has had enough and attempts to crush the Dwarves with a boulder while Usopp watches in horror.

At the underground trade port, Robin used her Devil Fruit powers in an attempt to knock out Sugar with the spice the dwarves were going to use. Unfortunately, she let her guard down for a moment and Sugar touched one of her arms, transforming her into a toy. While wandering in the trade port, Robin wondered where Usopp went and put her hopes in him as well. 
At the toy house, Franky decided to remain at the toy house to battle the Marines, because going to the underground world with them after him would jeopardize Thunder Soldier's plans. He also placed his faith in Usopp. 
With all the dwarves incapacitated, Leo also put his faith in Usopp. However, Usopp decided to run from the scene and angrily asked himself why Franky wasn't coming. 
As Usopp runs off in fear, Trebol tells the toys to get back to work, but they are shaken by the dwarves' rebellion. The barely conscious dwarves then call on Usopp, still hoping that he will save them. Usopp hears their call and freezes up as Trebol and Sugar question Leo about this "Usoland". Leo tells the two that Usopp is a legendary hero that gave his word to save all the dwarves and toys, and will do so. Trebol laughs at the dwarves' naivety, telling them that "Usoland" abandoned them. The dwarves are shocked, but Leo refuses to believe that Usopp would abandon them, trusting in their "hero's" word to the end. Trebol then steps on Leo, angering the dwarves even more. Suddenly, Usopp appears, telling the dwarves to quit the charade about him. 
As the toy Robin and the dwarves see Usopp, the pirate confesses the truth: he is not Usoland, the heroic descendant of Montblanc Noland, but Usopp, one of the Straw Hat Pirates. The dwarves struggle to believe this revelation and begin to weep, but then Usopp tells Trebol that he is still gonna save the dwarves. Before, he had realized that he wouldn't have been able to rest knowing that the dwarves had always been counting on him, and that it would be good to die if it was a noble death. He then declares that he is Usopp, the sniper of the Straw Hat Pirates and that they should put their faith in him, as he has decided to become the legendary hero of the Tontatta. With the rest of the toys wondering if he has come to save them, he launches a new pop green at Trebol; Hissatsu Midori Boshi: Platanus Shuriken, telling Trebol that it is time to sink or swim as the attack cuts him in half.

Usopp's attack on Trebol is revealed to have done nothing, as the latter easily puts himself back together and toys with Usopp.
Meanwhile, Thunder Soldier flashes back to his life before he was turned into a toy. At the age of 15, Kyros was arrested for the murder of two people. King Riku showed him mercy and allowed him his freedom after fighting 100 battles in the colosseum, to which Kyros agrees to. Within four months, he was able to win his freedom. However, Kyros continues to fight in the arena after realizing that there was no other place for him since the people still reviled him as a murderer. After 1000 victories, Riku asked why Kyros wanted to battle so much. Kyros sadly replies that all people will remember him as is a murderer. He also wishes that people would just forget about him and his past. Ironically, this wish would be fulfilled years later. Later on, it is revealed that he began to have nightmares over the blood he shed as a murderer with King Riku silently observing him.
Kyros stays for 9 years in the arena, winning battle after battle without any injury and winning the people's admiration over time. King Riku under the pretense of Ricky, competes against Kyros and his 3,000 wins and loses after giving him a single injury on the head when Kyros is shocked upon recognizing him. Kyros realized that it was the king who was fighting him all along and wondered why did it. The King told Kyros that even though Kyros taught him how to fight with a sword, he doesn't want him to spend his entire life fighting in the colosseum and convinced him to join the army as the captain of the guard. However, Scarlett (the princess of Dressrosa) is distrustful of him since his past as a murderer is well known to her and told him that he will never come near nor touch her or her sister, even though she is under his protection. This changes when pirates kidnap her and Kyros saves her. As a result, Scarlett falls in love with him and begins to spend more time together (much to Kyros's chagrin). Eventually, he reciprocates her feeling and they end up marrying.
Due to Kyros' past as a murderer, Scarlett convinces her father to fake her death so she can live happily with Kyros. She eventually bears him a child who she named Rebecca. The family spend their days living in the flower field where Riku comes to visit them regularly. Kyros himself couldn't bear to touch his daughter since he believes she is too pure to be touched by a murderer and wear gloves routinely when he does play with her. Despite this quirk, they continued to live a life filled with more happiness than Kyros had hoped for. However, one day, Kyros and his family notices the palace burning and questions what is happening.

When Doflamingo took over, Kyros attempts to rescue King Riku from Doflamingo. He cuts off his leg and lunges at Doflamingo, only for Sugar to turn him into a toy. Kyros (now Thunder Soldier) flees the palace with Riku, who does not remember him. Some day after the attack Scarlett was shot by Diamante when she went to get food for Rebecca.
Violet shook Kyros out of his flashback, when they noticed that extra soldiers are heading towards Doflamingo and with the element of surprise quickly slipping, the group prepares to attack Doflamingo.
In the Colosseum, Burgess's attacks are weakening the Colosseum's foundations, with soldiers remarking that another strong attack will cause them to break. Diamante reveals himself as the culprit who killed Rebecca's mother right in her face, leaving her vulnerable and in shock.
Franky lies defeated by the Doflamingo family and is calling for Usopp in his head to save the day. Down at the hidden harbor, all the toys are silently rooting for Usopp to succeed but he is shown to be unconscious. As a final farewell, Sugar puts the Tatababasco ball in Usopp's mouth and makes him swallow it. But this causes Usopp to wake up screaming with a horrible expression on his face that terrifies Sugar so much she fainted.

Usopp and Sugar scream as the latter passes out, which awes the dwarves and greatly shocks Trebol. Suddenly, all the toys are transformed back into their original bodies, resulting in celebrations in toy-only areas from the shipyard to the basement underneath the Colosseum. Trebol quickly tells Doflamingo via Den Den Mushi about what has happened, telling him that the effects of the Hobi Hobi no Mi were nullified, with Doflamingo showing massive concern and asking him if he was joking. The people in the streets panic due to the unexpected transformations happening all at once. Some citizens embrace their lost family members, but others run in fear from the wild animals and pirates who had just changed back from becoming toys, and some of the other toys that were turned back were revealed to be former Dressrosa soldiers, government officials, marines, beasts and leaders of other nations. Upon hearing reports of the panic, Fujitora and Bastille prepare to restore order while the wounded Franky gives a weak laugh as Senor Pink who is accompanied by Dellinger and Machvise chastises Sugar for being defeated so easily and wasting 10 years of planning, but takes back his statement by hoping she's not severely injured.
While in the coliseum, Diamante tries to figure if Sugar passed out while many fans in the stadium panic from the animals running wild.
Meanwhile, back in the castle, Pica vanishes, leaving Zoro lost and confused as to how he suddenly disappeared. Back at the Executive Tower, Robin, who is now a human again, comes to Usopp's aid. The dwarves celebrate Usopp making Operation SOP a success, weeping in gratitude and promising to build a statue of him, proclaiming him a hero. The barely conscious Usopp boldly proclaims that everything went "according to plan" and is confident that his crew can deal with the rest, knowing that the real fight has only just begun. Doflamingo, meanwhile, is severely frustrated and knee-deep in worry as he receives numerous calls via Den Den Mushi from all corners of Dressrosa.
With Doflamingo panicking at the turn of events, many Dressrosa citizens begin to revolt against their king and begin attacking, along with various other pirates attacking the grunts of the crew while informing the other citizens of Doflamingo's true nature. In the port all the coliseum combatants begin taking their revenge and attack the Donquixote members. Doflamingo in turn, looks out to the island, utterly furious his 10 years worth of work is undone like that.
Meanwhile, the Thunder Soldier turns back into Kyros, which causes Rebecca, Viola and Riku to remember, while the former king begins to cry finally remembering his former friend and army commander. As Luffy and Viola stare at the man before them, Kyros vanishes from Luffy and Viola's side and rushes toward the palace suits room, with Luffy questioning who he is to Viola who suddenly bursts into tears after finally remembering who he is due to the Hobi Hobi no Mi curse being lifted. She answers him by explaining the power of the Hobi Hobi no Mi and how everyone's memories were regained after Sugar was defeated and proclaims him to be the ex-commander of Riku's army and champion of the Colosseum, Kyros. Luffy is shocked at this revelation that he is the person representing the statue he saw at the Colosseum and is even more shocked to discover he is Rebecca's father, Viola looks back at why Thunder Soldier spent 10 years at Rebecca's side, protecting her and bursts into tears again.
Kyros then makes a beeline for Doflamingo, as Doflamingo then turns as one of his guards demands to know who the figure who just entered the room was. King Riku comments that he recognized the individual while Law looks on in shock and Riku asks if he is Kyros, who responds with a firm yes and charges to attack Doflamingo while apologizing to Riku for making him wait so long. Doflamingo recognizes Kyros but is taken completely by surprise and is seemingly decapitated with one swift strike, shocking Buffalo and Baby 5, and all those present as the gladiator shouts he's here to take back the "real Dressrosa".

As Donquixote Doflamingo's severed head falls to the ground, those present express shock while Kyros proclaims they have suffered for a decade. Buffalo attempts to attack Kyros, who holds him at swordpoint before telling all of Doflamingo's subordinates that he is going to expose all of their deceptions. As Monkey D. Luffy dejectedly notes that he did not have a chance to beat up Doflamingo before he died, several soldiers discover him and Violet hiding behind a window and open fire on them, prompting Luffy to grab Violet while proclaiming they will save Trafalgar Law.
Meanwhile, in the Colosseum, Gatz expresses shock at the sight of the toys in the audience turning into humans and animals as a large gorilla scares away several citizens. Watching the dispersing crowds, Diamante notes Trebol must have left Sugar unguarded for this to occur. Bartolomeo asks Rebecca how much longer she is going to cry, only for Rebecca to reveal she has finally remembered her father while recalling several memories of her parents. As Bartolomeo wonders what she is talking about, Sabo notes this must have been the plot that was undermining the country and claims any situation can change if you strike its core. Sabo decides to end this fight and hardens his arms with Busoshoku Haki before driving them into the arena, creating several large cracks that extend all the way to the edges. As Gatz wonders what he did, Sabo uses Dragon Claws Fists: Dragon's Breath, which obliterates the arena. The rest of the fighters land on chunks of rock in the water as Diamante demands to know what Sabo did, prompting Sabo, who is standing on a pillar in the center, to tell him that he is going to win this.
Watching from the stands with a smile on her face, Koala receives a call on her Den Den Mushi from Hack, who asks her if Sabo did something reckless again, prompting Koala to reveal he is going to head underground now. Meanwhile, Gatz notes that the water appears to be draining and admits they can no longer guarantee the safety of the audience before telling everyone to evacuate. Bartolomeo and Rebecca realize the water must be draining into cracks in the foundation of the ring before being thrown off their chunk of rock when it collides with another one. Though Bartolomeo manages to grab onto another chunk of stone, Rebecca wraps her hands around his throat in order to not fall off as well, prompting Bartolomeo to tell her to get off. As Jesus Burgess leaps from rock to rock while proclaiming this is nothing, a large chunk of rock hits him in the back of the head, sending him flying into the water.
When a Fighting Fish leaps toward him, Sabo sees the chest strapped to its back and realizes he has found the one with the Mera Mera no Mi. Upon seeing another Fighting Fish leaping out of the water, Sabo leaps onto its back and waits as the two fish head toward each other. Watching from below, Diamante curses Sabo, who leaps toward the chest. Diamante pulls out a club while proclaiming that he will not let Sabo have it, but the rock he is standing on buckles, causing him to fall into the water and lose his strength. As Diamante reveals they were never intending to give anyone the Mera Mera no Mi, Sabo destroys the chest, revealing the fruit, before grabbing it and landing on the pillar once more. Proclaiming that he is the winner, Sabo points out how the rules stated that whoever got the fruit would be the victor, prompting Gatz to announce to the fleeing audience that "Lucy" has won.
Sabo takes a bite of the Mera Mera no Mi and states it is disgusting before noticing Bartolomeo losing his grip on the rock and falling. Leaping toward them, Sabo grabs Rebecca out of the air and lets Bartolomeo fall onto one of the rocks below. When Bartolomeo asks him for help, Sabo claims he must help himself because he is a man before announcing that he is going to make one more attack. Sabo takes off his beard, glasses, and helmet, prompting Diamante to recognize him as a member of the Revolutionary Army. Summoning fire around his fist, a surprised Sabo notes he can really create fire as Koala realizes she still has his clothes and leaps into the arena. Sabo proclaims he is a fire now before using Hiken, which destroys what is left of the arena while breaking through its foundation into the Underground Trade Port.
In the port, Trebol curses the Straw Hat Pirates and proclaims he is not going to let the Dwarves leave this place after freeing their servants. Leo runs up to Usopp and asks him if he is okay as Nico Robin tells the Dwarves to look after him. As the Dwarves carry Usopp away, Leo tells them to not let Trebol lay a single finger on him. Noting they want to destroy the SMILE Factory, Trebol uses Beta Beta Chain, but Robin creates several hands around herself before pushing up a large chunk of rock, which absorbs the force of the attack. However, Hajrudin stomps the ground near Trebol, who leaps away, before leaning down toward the fleeing Dwarves, whom he asks to let him borrow Usopp momentarily. Picking up Usopp, Hajrudin notes he must have fought very hard for them before telling the former toys to look at him.
As Hajrudin states it must have been painful to live has toys for over 10 years, Usopp tries to tell him that he is hurting him and to not move his body, but Hajrudin hears "You do" instead and points out how they would have lived as slaves were it not for Usopp. Holding Usopp up by his arms, Hajrudin proclaim this is the hero who broke the spell on them as Usopp tries to tell him to stop moving him. The ceiling begins to crack as Hajrudin proclaims this is Captain Usopp, prompting the Dwarves and former toys to cheer. The ceiling finally collapses as some Fighting Fish fall through and a light shines on Usopp, causing onlookers to believe he is a god. Usopp tries to tell Hajrudin to let him down, but instead tells the former toys that he will guide them, causing everyone below to cheer for him. As Usopp fully regains consciousness, he hears the people below asking him for guidance and tells them to destroy the factory behind him so the rest of the Dwarves can be freed. The former toys agree to do so and cheer once more as Usopp wonders what is wrong with them.

At the arena, Sabo and Rebecca fall down to the pit with Koala arriving next to them.
The slaves once turned into toys pledge loyalty to Usopp and vow to destroy the factory. Having fallen down from the colosseum, Jesus Burgess is annoyed that Sabo ate the fruit meant for his crew, and Diamante worries over the loss of the fruit. While these two are grumbling, they are confronted by the freed toys from the basement, full of hatred for the Donquixote Pirates.
Meanwhile, Koala, Sabo and Rebecca regroup with Hack. Some distance away, but still in the port, Bartolomeo is upset that Sabo did not save him, despite being easily able to save himself. Sabo, having changed out of his disguise, introduces himself, Koala and Hack as members of the Revolutionary Army. He also revealed Lucy's identity of Luffy to Rebecca, and tells her that the pirate is his younger brother. Sabo then explains that Dressrosa is promoting wars all over the world, and came to Dressrosa to stop it.
Sabo, Koala, and Hack meet with Robin, who was revealed to be acquainted with all three of them. Robin introduces them to Usopp, whose beaten-up face creeps them out. Meanwhile, Kin'emon hurriedly exits the palace, using his Doflamingo disguise to get through the crowd. He narrowly dodges getting killed, to which Wicca realizes they were the toy slaves and rejoices that their plan worked and has Kin'emon turn back into himself to avoid getting killed.
On the Royal Plateau, in front of the Rampart Tower, Zoro continues searching fruitlessly for Pica.
In the palace, Kyros defeats Doflamingo's soldiers with ease, including Buffalo. Luffy and Viola rush over to save Law, but Law warns him that their alliance is over and that they are now enemies, and if Luffy releases him, he may kill Luffy. Gladius rushes in, but sees that Doflamingo has been decapitated, and is startled. Kyros removes Riku's chains, as Luffy tries to unchain Law despite his warnings. A sudden shockwave knocks them to the floor as Pica emerges beside Doflamingo, holding the Shichibukai's head in his hand. Doflamingo, still alive, warns that the situation is now serious, and that he will need to implement a plan called the 'bird cage', which greatly shocks Law.

Several former toys run through the streets while demanding to know where Doflamingo and proclaiming their intention to destroy the SMILE Factory. At the factory, three guards watch the approaching mob and wonder what they are supposed to do, but one of them points out how no one can enter unless they have a key to the building. As several Dwarves carry Artificial Devil Fruits across the floor of the factory, one of the guards notes that the buildings will remain undamaged even if the ceiling collapses on them because they are made of Seastone. Meanwhile, Diamante and Trebol stand before the oncoming mob. As several warriors rush toward him and attack, Diamante swings his steel cape in front of his body, causing their swords to shatter upon hitting it. Several other warriors prepare to fire at Trebol, who claims it is useless before piercing their bodies with mucus. While Diamante transforms a nearby wooden pole into a large hammer using Lock, Trebol binds more warriors with Beta-Beta Chain. Smashing the rest of the mob away, Diamante berates them for pushing their luck as Trebol slams the bound warriors into the ground with Beta-Betamu. The guard watching from above proclaims that no one can defeat the two of them.
Meanwhile, in Dressrosa, former toys and Donquixote Pirates underlings clash in the streets while the chuckling head of Donquixote Doflamingo notes that they need to do something. As a shocked Trafalgar Law looks at Doflamingo, Kyros proclaims this is creepy before leaping toward Doflamingo and Pica while demanding to know how Doflamingo is still alive. However, he is caught off-guard when Doflamingo appears behind him with his head still attached and asks Kyros if he wants to learn how to kill a person. As Monkey D. Luffy and Viola call out to Kyros, Doflamingo swings his leg toward Kyros's head while stating that this is how it is done. Riku Doldo III yells Kyros's name as the towers of the palace are cut in half, revealing Luffy has pulled Kyros down just in time for Doflamingo's kick to miss him. Noticing Luffy, Doflamingo prepares to swipe at him as the fake Doflamingo's body does the same, causing Baby 5 to realize there are two of him.
Doflamingo and his clone use Goshikito, prompting Luffy to roll out of the way as the joint attack kicks up a large amount of dust. As Kyros apologizes for letting his guard down, Luffy rushes toward Doflamingo, who hardens his coat with Busoshoku Haki, before activating Gear 2 and using Gomu Gomu no Jet Gatling, which Doflamingo effortlessly defends against for several seconds before his clone appears behind Luffy and cuts him across the back with Goshikito. Seeing Luffy flying toward him, Doflamingo hardens his fist with Busoshoku Haki before punching Luffy in the face, sending him flying several meters back into a wall. As Doflamingo and his clone stand over Luffy, Kyros wonders what the clone is as the clone begins to unravel into string, causing Viola to note it is like a string marionette. Unraveling the clone with his finger, Doflamingo looks at Riku and asks him if he remembers how he felt when Doflamingo stole his kingdom 10 years ago. When Riku confirms this and demands to know why he is asking, Doflamingo claims that what will soon occur will not be small-scale like that night was.
As Law expresses shock upon hearing this, Riku demands to know what Doflamingo means, only for Doflamingo to state it is time to let them go before ordering Pica to throw everyone out. The ground begins to roll and shift, causing those present to be thrown around before two giant stone hands grab them and move them outside of the castle. While Luffy, Viola, Kyros, and Law fall to the ground below, Riku manages to grab onto the stone and begs Doflamingo to not cause further harm to Dressrosa before being thrown off as well. However, Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Fusen to cushion everyone's fall. Meanwhile, in the castle, Baby 5 and Gladius stand next to Doflamingo, who stops manipulating his clone before deciding to bring an end to everything and gesturing upward with his finger, causing the string composing his clone to begin shooting high into the sky as Doflamingo smiles.
Below the castle, a panting Luffy notes that Doflamingo had them thrown into the garden of the Rampart Tower as Viola states they cannot get near Doflamingo as long as Pica is there. Upon seeing the string spiraling into the sky, a shocked Law notes the Birdcage has begun, causing the others to look at him. Upon reaching a point high above Dressrosa, the string begins falling down in an arc shape toward the edges of the city. Upon seeing the strings piercing the rocks around the city, a pirate asks his captain what it is, only for the captain to decide to get out of the country as soon as possible because they will only be crushed if they stay. However, despite the warning of another one of his crewmates, the captain runs into one of the strings, which slices the top and bottom of his face. Wondering what these bars of string are, the pirates attempt to break through the cage with cannonballs, but the balls are merely sliced to pieces on contact.
Meanwhile, Luffy asks Law what the Birdcage is, prompting Law to reveal that Doflamingo plans to kill everyone on the island before the truth about Dressrosa leaks out, shocking the others. Looking up at the Birdcage, Vice Admiral Bastille wonders what it is as one of his subordinates informs him that he cannot reach Marine Headquarters on his Den Den Mushi. As another of Bastille's subordinates confirms this report, Doflamingo smiles as several Marines and civilians suddenly stiffen up. Something rushes toward Admiral Issho, but he catches it and opens his hand, revealing a string. As Issho realizes what this is, he is distracted by a nearby explosion as people run screaming out of a burning house. When asked why he shot the house, a Marine frantically explains that he cannot control his body before firing at his fellow Marines, causing another explosion. Another Marine tries to stop the fighting, but he stiffens up before taking out his sword and cutting down another Marine near him, confusing him. As a man fires a gun into a crowd while tearfully telling them to duck, Doflamingo moves his fingers up and down before revealing that he is using Parasite.
As Bastille wonders what is going on, a subordinate reveals that people are harming each other at random all over Dressrosa and that some Marines are rampaging as well. The subordinate proclaims that many citizens will die if nothing is done before being interrupted by an explosion, which draws the attention of those present to The King's Plateau sinking into the ground. When Luffy asks him what is going on, Law reveals this is the work of Pica and explains how he can change the geography by merging with the stone in the land. Turning around, Luffy notices the Royal Palace is shifting away and tells it to stop moving. Meanwhile, near the SMILE Factory, the former toys run away from the factory, which is moving up, while wondering what is happening here. The Flower Field begins moving up as well, causing the whole town to be pulled in toward it and leaving hundreds of citizens to fall to the ground below.
After the shifting has stopped, Doflamingo picks up a Den Den Mushi and begins speaking to the citizens and guests of Dressrosa, whom he informs of how he could have ruled with terror from the start as his image appears on screens and on the strings around the country. Doflamingo acknowledges that many of them likely want to kill him now that they have discovered the truth before revealing that he has prepared a game to kill him for them. Stating that he is in the palace and will not leave, Doflamingo admits the game will end if they kill him before revealing that the game will also end if they kill all of the people he is about to name, each of whom he will award a large prize for killing. Stating that it is kill or be killed, Doflamingo proclaims that everyone in the country will become hunters because it is only possible to survive if they kill someone.

Doflamingo continues his broadcast, informing the Dressrosa citizens that escape from his Birdcage, as well as communication to the outside world, is impossible. While various citizens try to call for help or to stop them, many scream for others to stay away from them since they can't control themselves. He asks them if they will all be killed because of him using his powers to make random citizens kill others, or if they will manage to end his game.
As Issho puts down the controlled Marines, the ex-toys at the underground port are shocked that the SMILE Factory has risen into the air. However, they are confident that this gives them a chance for escape thanks to their "god", Usopp. Meanwhile in the port, Kin'emon, Bartolomeo, and Rebecca meet up with Robin, Usopp, Sabo, Koala, Hack, and the Dwarves. Bartolomeo, while sucking up to Robin, notices that Usopp has a long nose, much like Sogeking, his alias. Robin tells him that they are one and the same, causing Bartolomeo to scream in awe, greatly annoying Sabo and Hack (as the latter is in disbelief his arm was broken by a fool like Bartolomeo). Kin'emon checks on the dwarves, commending them on their battle skill while they check on Kabu and Rampo, who got back from the palace incapacitated.
The carnage in the streets of Dressrosa continues, with many citizen's reflecting that this was a lot like the incident he caused ten years ago. The controlled citizens and their victims likewise draw similarities to the incident, finally understanding that King Riku and his Army were being controlled that night. As King Riku continues to plead that Doflamingo stop the carnage, Doflamingo offers an ultimatum to the former toys and people screaming for his head: make the wrong choice and come for his head in a never-ending game, or "bring justice" to the 12 people on the island that represent the greatest threat to the Donquixote Family. Each target is worth a certain number of "Stars", and Doflamingo will pay a bounty of 100,000,000 per star. The bounties are assigned as follows:
1-Star: Rebecca, Nico Robin, Kin'emon, Viola, Franky
2-Stars: Roronoa Zoro, Kyros
3-Stars: Sabo, Monkey D. Luffy, Trafalgar Law, Riku Doldo III
The announcement of the bounties causes a flurry of mixed reactions of shock, disbelief, and excitement; both that some of the targets are even still alive after all this time (King Riku and Kyros), and others that the people are even present on Dressrosa (such as Sabo). Back at the Trade Port, just as Usopp begins to rejoice in being left out, Doflamingo reveals the one who angered him the most and put them in this horrible game, offers a final, special 5-star bounty just for "God" Usopp for his role in the preceding events. This immediately brings horror to Usopp and the Dwarves but great delight to the former toy slaves. Seeing Usopp and vaious other criminal's with stars on their heads, they quickly turn their attention to Robin, Sabo, Rebecca, and Kin'emon for their bounties, who surmise that they must escape quickly, to which Usopp is annoyed over how they worshiped him earlier and now they want him dead. However while everyone else moves to make it above ground, Kin'emon decides to jump further down to the Scrap Heap under the pretense that Kanjuro may be there.
Doflamingo further asserts that the clock is ticking, as people are being killed by the second due to his manipulation. We are brought back to the streets of Dressrosa, where the citizens that have come to understand King Riku's actions ten years ago now find themselves torn over what to do. Also, Senor Pink, Machvise, and Dellinger notice that Franky has escaped their sight somehow. Franky is on the move to the factory with backup cola, but many pirates go after him for the reward, much to Franky's disgust at the lack of gratitude for Usopp's help. The citizens also see him and try to kill him, but Franky shoves them off and covers himself with his coat proclaiming Usopp did his part and now he'll destroy the factory. Back at the Trade Port, Bartolomeo urges Robin's group to press on to above ground as he creates a large barrier to prevent the former toys from pursuing them. Zoro calls Robin via Den Den Mushi, and it is revealed that he has met up with Luffy and the others that were expelled from the palace by Pica. Luffy takes over the conversation with Robin, and they bring each other up to date on current events, they notice that Kyros has gone missing.
Luffy referring to Kyros as "Soldier-San", as well as Rebecca's own memories of the toy soldier, leads her to the revelation that the soldier, the statue at the Corrida Colosseum, and Kyros, are her father. As she begins to break down, Luffy encourages her to remain strong. He apologizes that she couldn't eat the Mera Mera no Mi, but in place of that promises to defeat Doflamingo and restore order to the country.

Nico Robin moves toward the palace with Usopp and Rebecca, while Sabo and Koala split to complete different tasks.
At Luffy's location, Law asks him if he knows what he is going to do and points out how their goal was to destroy the SMILE Factory in order to provoke a conflict between Donquixote Doflamingo and Kaidou. Law claims that Kaidou will turn his anger at losing his SMILEs to them if they kill Doflamingo now. Luffy states that this is not an issue now before demanding to know what will happen to Dressrosa if he stops now.
Meanwhile the citizens of Dressrosa hunt for the people whom Doflamingo placed bounties on. As the Marines escort several captured citizens away from the rest of the soldiers, Bastille asks Issho if they should be trying to capture Doflamingo, only for Issho to order him to tell all units to restrain as many rampaging people as possible and focus on the Straw Hat Pirates-Law alliance.
Back at the plateau, Luffy grabs Law and Zoro in either arm and states they will go, only for Law to remind him that he is still in seastone handcuffs. Viola states she will get the key, revealing that she saw it when they were falling. She states it must be somewhere on this plateau before stopping mid-sentence in surprise upon seeing Luffy running toward the edge of the plateau.
At the underground port, Koala boards one of the ships. She finds a chest filled with firearms and rips off a skull-and-crossbones sticker to reveal the seal of the Kingdom of Doerena. Koala takes a picture and, hearing voices, she hides as several men walk past while discussing what they will do if the Marines find out about their trade with Doflamingo. One of the men states that they just need to destroy the evidence along with the ship. Koala quickly defeats all of the men with ease.
In the city above, the citizens and Marines continue to attack each other against their will as Maynard asks Issho why they will not arrest Doflamingo despite his inability to maintain his status as a Shichibukai after this. Issho notes the Marines have been doing the same thing over and over and states Maynard has been a member for a long time before asking him if he has been listening to these cries of anger all this time. Issho demands to know if the World Government believes it is God, shocking Maynard, who falls back as Issho asks him to honor his decisions.
Meanwhile, at the palace, Diamante notes that the Straw Hat Pirates and Law's target is the SMILE Factory, prompting Trebol to ask Doflamingo if they should not be protecting the factory right now. Doflamingo points out they can not open the doors because they are made of seastone. He then reveals he has the keys to the factory with him before cutting the keys to pieces, which shocks Baby 5 and Trebol. Trebol and Diamante apologize for failing in executing their duties and Doflamingo forgives them. Doflamingo then reveals that he already talked with Issho, and that the Marines will not pursue them, before stating that Issho will die once they are done using him.
In the city the Marines are ordered to restrain those who are still out of control as several of them learn of their orders to pursue the Straw Hat Pirates and Law. Watching the Marines run past him alongside Senor Pink and Dellinger, Machvise notes that the Marines are not antagonizing them. Senor Pink expresses disbelief at Franky having still had the energy to run away and wonders where he went. Elsewhere, Franky runs through the city with his shirt pulled over his head and notes that what he sees in the distance must be the SMILE Factory.
Luffy and fall through the air and are noticed by Senor Pink's group. Luffy and Zoro begin running away from the assembled soldiers. Dellinger catches up to Luffy and disappears from sight before kicking at him, who manages to leap away in time. However, Senor Pink catches Luffy by surprise by swimming in the ground underneath him and grabbing his legs. Machvise appears in the air above them and uses 10-Ton Vise. Luffy manages to stretch himself far enough away for Machvise to miss his body, though his feet become pinned.
Dellinger tries again to hit them, only for Zoro to kick him in the back, causing Dellinger to stumble forward before accidentally kicking Machvise instead, which forces him off of Luffy's feet. As Zoro tells them to go, they are confronted by several warriors who intend to take their heads for Doflamingo's bounties. As they begin opening fire, Zoro rushes forward and effortlessly defeats those in his way while Luffy defeats the others with Gomu Gomu no Gatling. However they are interrupted by Issho, who claims that he who shoots often will not hit the mark as several Marines follow him.

Luffy demands Fujitora moves but he refuses, to which Luffy puts Law down and engages combat with Fujitora and embeds his arm in Busoshoku Haki. 
At the palace, Doflamingo hears of Luffy fighting Fujitora and Pica offers to take down all their enemies. Pica offers to take down all their enemies alone, but Pica's high-pitched voice catches a subordinate off guard, and he struggles to hold in a laugh as another tells him hurriedly that laughing will get him killed. Doflamingo says that there's no need to be hasty, as he is confident that his game will cause the citizens to choose the Donquixote Family over the Riku family. As Pica begins to reply, the subordinate can no longer control himself and lets out a laugh. This immediately catches the attention of Doflamingo and the senior executives, much to the soldier's dismay. As Pica is about to entomb the subordinate in stone for his laughter, Baby 5 instead shoots him to prevent Pica's wrath from going out of control, knocking the subordinate off the plateau. Doflamingo explains that he lost his mother at 8 years old, and killed his father at age 10, and that because the executives have shared joy and sorrow with him, he will not tolerate anyone laughing at his family.  
In the colosseum, Robin's group continues to evade the former toys chasing their bounties, with Bartolomeo and Hack backing them up. Robin determines that the landscape shift has placed the colosseum next to the Royal Plateau, so they head there to meet up with the others. While Viola locates the key to Law's cuffs, she is happy to see Rebecca down below while the latter is protected by Tank Lepanto. The commotion of the island catches everyone's attention, until eventually Pica himself emerges from the landscape to tower above the island. As he says that he will deal with those that stand against his family, Luffy starts laughing at the high pitch of his voice, infuriating Pica. The soldiers of Doflamingo's crew shout at Luffy to stop laughing about Pica, as the latter has a complex about his high-pitched voice. An enraged Pica then aims a fist at Luffy, and as the citizens run away in fear. Issho notices that something bad is happening, though is oblivious to what exactly. As Luffy, Zoro, and Law run from Pica, the latter two tell the former to stop laughing at Pica, though they are trying hard to keep from laughing themselves. Pica's fist then lands on the ground, destroying many buildings and launching the pirates into the air.

Luffy, Zoro, and Law land in front of the Corrida Colosseum, and as Zoro and Law reflect on how strong Pica is, Cavendish suddenly appears. As Zoro prepares to draw his sword, Cavendish recognizes Law and attacks him due to him being one of the Eleven Supernovas, which stole his fame. Luffy stops Cavendish, saying that Law is his friend, which Law loudly denies. Luffy asks Cavendish if he still hates him, to which Cavendish replies no due to Usopp rescuing him from being a toy. Cavendish then hands Law his hat, which he found in front of the colosseum, and offers to put it on for him, which Law quickly declines. Cavendish then tells Luffy that as repayment for rescuing him, he'll kill Doflamingo so the Straw Hat Pirates can hide. Luffy declines the offer, saying he had to defeat Doflamingo to repay Rebecca for giving him lunch, leading Law and Cavendish to question his motives. Cavendish believes Luffy wants to defeat Doflamingo to become more popular, and gain the press' attention.
Suddenly, Chinjao, Sai, and Boo appear, their grudge against Luffy gone and now are ready to defeat Doflamingo to repay Usopp, which annoys Luffy due to him wanting to defeat Doflamingo. Hajrudin then appears, also getting rid of his grudge and saying he'll defeat Doflamingo. He is soon followed by Elizabello II, Dagama, Abdullah, Jeet, Suleiman, Orlumbus, Ideo, and Blue Gilly, who all want the same thing: Doflamingo's head, but for different reasons. As Zoro asks all of them to back them up, Luffy and the former combatants start arguing on who gets to defeat Doflamingo. However, they notice a crowd of former colosseum combatant toys heading toward them, ready to take Luffy, Zoro, and Law's bounties, and, forgetting their argument and disgusted at them for going after the very people who were responsible for their freedom, easily defeat the ex-toys. Just then, Luffy sees Ucy in the crowd, and the bull quickly recognizes his friend.
The citizens of Dressrosa are all on the search for Luffy, Zoro, and Law, expecting all of them to be dead. Suddenly, they see the shadow of a bull heading toward them, and thinking it is only the Straw Hats, prepare to fire their guns. However, they see the Straw Hats backed up by the Corrida Colosseum's most dangerous combatants, and are very shocked. Pica then prepares to crush the combatants, but Chinjao uses his drill head and Elizabello II uses a lighter version of King Punch to shatter Pica's stone arm, shocking the citizens. Meanwhile, Luffy tries to get the other combatants off his trail to find Doflamingo.

The citizens of Dressrosa are shocked to see Pica's arm crumble apart after Chinjao's and Elizabello II's attack, and Luffy, in a panic, rides Ucy away from the falling rubble. The soldiers on the streets attempt to stop the Colosseum fighters, but are thwarted by Ideo, who uses Destruction Cannon to blow the shocked soldiers away. Orlumbus and Cavendish join in, respectively using the moves Admiral's Hug and Swan Lake. The soldiers are powerless to stop them, but Pica gears up for another assault on the fighters. Chinjao prepares to hold the Donquixote executive off, but Zoro sees that Pica's severed arm has grown back, and, knowing that continuing fighting like this would be useless, shouts at everybody to run. Dagama tries to give a strategy for Pica but mentions only running is their best option for surviving for now. 
The fighters run away from Pica's second attack, which destroys more of Dressrosa, and the fighters are at a loss on how to get through Pica to Doflamingo's castle. Suddenly, Cavendish notices that Luffy isn't with them, and the fighters are incredibly shocked to see the Straw Hat riding Ucy up Pica's arm. Luffy heads up excitedly, and Abdullah and Jeet, having also hitched a ride on Ucy, also cheer, which causes Luffy to realize they are there and to yell at them to get off. Pica then notices Luffy, and in silent rage grows his arm back, preparing to attack the pirate. Luffy attacks him first, however, hitting Pica in the face with Gomu Gomu no Grizzly Magnum. The attack shatters Pica's face and shocks the fighters and citizens down below. 
Meanwhile, Robin's group continues to climp up to the plaza while the former ex-toys follow in pursuit for the bounty's. One grabs Rebecca but Robin uses her slap move to shake them off stating she won't let them touch her. They all reach the top and Robin dispels her ability letting them all fall back to the Coliseum.
Back with Pica, Zoro, having ridden on Ucy with Luffy, points out that Pica's shattered arm and head were just pure stone, and that Pica's real body was located where his fake head was. Zoro remarks that Pica is finally showing some human characteristics, when the Donquixote executive pulls out a giant sword, scaring Abdullah and Jeet. They beg Ucy to turn around or stop, but the bull cannot do either of those things as Pica swings at it. However, Luffy manages to get underneath Ucy and propel it upward, out of the sword's path. Ucy lands behind Pica, but the executive officer quickly turns around, preparing to strike again. Thankfully, Zoro manages to counter his blow with one sword, which causes a shocked Abdullah and Jeet to call him and Luffy "comrades of god". Pica tells Zoro to get out of the way so he can deal with Luffy, but Zoro says that Luffy has no business with a chunk of stone like him and mocks his high-pitched voice calling him a "soprano voiced dumbass", enraging Pica further.

The fighters below notice that Pica's stone body has frozen, and take advantage of this to head for Doflamingo's castle, intent on his head. Luffy, Abdullah, and Jeet continue riding away from Pica, the latter two refusing to get off despite Luffy's demands. Suddenly, Law snaps out of his thought, admitting to Luffy that his plan had been a detour to crush Doflamingo, but that he, too, wanted to repay the Shichibukai after losing to him before. He then tells Luffy how Doflamingo took away the most important person to him 13 years ago. This person was Corazon, his benefactor and the former top executive of the Donquixote family, as well as Doflamingo's biological younger brother.
Pica's larger stone body remains still due to his confrontation with Roronoa Zoro, allowing the Colosseum group to push forward. The Donquixote Family subordinates attempt to hold them off, but to no avail. Dellinger, Machvise, Gladius, Baby 5, and Lao G watch on from the second level of the newly located Royal Palace, amused at the group's momentum. They are impressed, but still confident that they will not make it through Admiral Fujitora's forces. Baby 5 comments that the Straw Hat Pirates still managed to stop Pica.
A map of Dressrosa is shown, showing the locations of: Zoro as he battles Pica; Monkey D. Luffy and Trafalgar Law as they reach the first level of the palace; the Colosseum group advancing towards the Marines; and Kyros fighting his way through individually. The Dressrosa citizens attempt to reason with Kyros to give himself up without a fight. They explain that they aren't interested in his bounty, but that their deaths are guaranteed if all of the bounties aren't collected. Kyros empathizes with their logic, but tells them that he too must accomplish something, charging at them. At the former Royal Plateau, Nico Robin's group reach King Riku and Viola from the Colosseum, along with Tank Lepanto. Bartolomeo is disappointed that Luffy is not there, while Leo and the Tontatta are confused by Pica's larger form and the new location of the Royal Palace. Rebecca points out that they still have pursuers, but Robin easily dispatches them by making the net she had created for climbing up the plateau disappear.
Viola finds the key to Law's handcuffs, and expresses her intent to free him. King Riku attempts to persuade her otherwise, because Law and Luffy are pirates, but she replies that is precisely why they are the ones who can truly help their country. She goes on to say that the World Government granting Donquixote Doflamingo a special status and protection as a pirate is precisely how their country ended up in this predicament, and therefore she has no interest in their definition of justice. She claims they only listen to the cries of the people when it is convenient for them, whereas the Straw Hats have acted from a place of sincerity. The Tontatta agree, and bring King Riku up-to-date on how Usopp was responsible for the lifting the curse of the Hobi Hobi no Mi. They tell him that they also support the Straw Hats wholeheartedly. Rebecca decides that she will get the key to Luffy, with Bartolomeo enthusiastically asking to come along as well so he can see Luffy again. Viola warns her niece of the danger, but Rebecca assures her that she will be fine. This prompts Leo and Kabu to also offer to accompany Rebecca for further support. Everyone agrees to meet up again at the Royal Plateau afterwards.
Franky finally reaches to the factory, and prepares to fire his Radical Beam. However, before he can release it, Senor Pink emerges and attacks him, wishing to continue their previous fight.

At the Royal Palace, the Colosseum group has begun to climb the palace. This alarms the executives, as they were confident that the attackers would not make it through the Marines. As Luffy fights his way through level 1 of the new royal plateau, the Colosseum group catches up to him. Baby 5 notices that the Marines are being held back by a large wall of flame. Fujitora asks Sabo if there's no way he can convince the Revolutionary to move. As a member of the Revolutionary Army , Sabo explains that he will not let anyone pass who attempts to bring harm to Luffy or his allies. He then corrects himself, saying that he is also doing this as a big brother. This leads Fujitora to question just whose brother Sabo is.
Bastille warns his men to stay away from Sabo due to him being a Logia user. The Marines shoot at Sabo but his body is immune to damage because of his Logia powers. One Marine notes comment's on how strong Sabo's fingers are but Sabo corrects him calling them "claws" as he crushes a bazooka with one hand. He makes the bazooka explode as Bastille tells them to move as he'll deal with the Revolutionary. Sabo easily breaks Bastille's blade with his fingers as the vice admiral curses him. Sabo then grabs his head and states he can crush a skull like an egg as he breaks Bastille's mask. Just then, Issho brings down a meteor wondering if it can break through Doflamingo's Birdcage. However, the cage merely slices the meteor to bits causing great destruction to the kingdom. Fujitora realizes his mistake and hopes no one was hurt while his men ask that he warns them before he uses his powers again. He then asks Sabo if he's aware of the predicament he's in but Sabo merely notes he's still having trouble controlling Ace's powers as he reveals he beat Bastille.
Fujitora notes that Ace was Luffy's brother and realizes Sabo is the same. Sabo confirms this stating they shared drinks together and have an unshakable bond which causes several Marines to be shocked by Luffy's brothers. Sabo mentions that should Luffy ever need help, he will be there for him. He has a flashback how he discovered Ace's death and refuses to let anything happen to his loved ones again and clashes with Fujitora.

Meanwhile, on Level 1 of the platform, Luffy, Ucy, Abddullah and Jeet and Law charge through the soldiers of the Donquixote Family. Just then, Luffy sees Cavendish as he states they found a short cut and are going ahead of Luffy. The other fighters charge forward fighting the other soldiers. As Luffy and Ucy are being shot at, Kelly Funk (while using Bobby Funk's body) fights them off telling them to stay away from Straw Hat. After Kelly reintroduces himself to Luffy he tells him he found a secret passage that will lead them to the top of the castle. As they run Law questions Luffy when he will have the key to his cuffs off. Law questions if he really intends to fight Doflamingo while he's handicap but Luffy states it will all work out but Law retorts how Luffy can remain so positive. Kelly then leads them to the passage and as they enter Abddullah and Jeet fall off Ucy, much to Law's and Kelly's shock. Luffy and Law keep going as Luffy gets a call from Robin as she informs Luffy they have the key to Law's cuffs. Robin states they'll reach them with Rebecca and Bartolomeo at the Sunflower fields. Though Luffy reaffirms Law that this worked out Law states only cause of dumb luck. 
Back at the former royal plateau, Bartolomeo, Nico Robin, and Rebecca are confused by the Tontatta's suggestion to take stag beetles to the Flower Field on the 4th level. Leo explains that the beetles provide "jumping service" instead, since humans are too big to fly. They jump off the cliff, and notice that the beetles fly in a circle among each other to not fly them, but keep them afloat in the air. Leo further explains that if they land on a roof, they can then jump to receive more altitude and continue to float. They head to the Flower Fields, with Leo warning them to be wary of attacks from below.  
At the SMILE's factory, Franky continues his fight with Senior Pink but the latter can't seem to harm him as Pink continues swimming out of reach. The Dwarves notice this as Inhel prepares a plan. 
Back at the tunnel, Law notes they ran into a dead end with water in it. Just then, someone comes from behind telling them this is just a slanted room, revealing himself to be Doflamingo.

Donquixote Doflamingo confronts Monkey D. Luffy, Trafalgar Law, and Ucy, as they have fallen into a slanted well on the first level of the royal plateau. Angered by his presence, Luffy immediately attempts to punch Doflamingo but he blocks it effortlessly. After mocking them for getting caught into the trap, Doflamingo fires multiple string shots at the bull that incapacitates him and also knocks Luffy into the water. He mocks them further about how easily they were defeated, but in spite of this he commends Luffy for his ability to gather allies, especially under these circumstances. He wonders why Law would choose Luffy, and chides Law for being a coward. This upsets Law, who shouts that he will never be like Doflamingo, after having been "saved". As Doflamingo prepares to fire another bullet string, he is slashed and pierced from behind by Abdullah and Jeet.  
Meanwhile, Kyros is on the move and is taken aim by a bounty hunter. Luckily, an old man stops him and Kyros saves the old man. Though the civilian now holds the gun on Kyros, the latter convinces him to let him go and take down Doflamingo.
Back at the tunnel the Doflamingo turns out to be a clone as well, but Abdullah and Jeet instead get Luffy, Law, and the Bull out of the water. After saving them, Jeet reveals that Kelly Funk betrayed them; however the clone Doflamingo showed up and slashed him down. Abdullah updates Law and Luffy that the Colosseum army has reached the 2nd level, meanwhile Kyros makes it to the first level. The Donquixote executives notice that none of the Colosseum Army has been halted by the Marines, and brace themselves for battle. Luffy punches through the ceiling of the well, creating his own passageway to the second level right in front of the Colosseum army. As Gladius berates the Donquixote subordinates for getting distracted, Chinjao takes advantage of the chaos in wake of Luffy's actions and presses toward the third level.  
Bartolomeo, Nico Robin, and Rebecca continue marching forward and are shot at from below. Bartolomeo scares them away by taking his pants off and prepare to pee on them like at the Coliseum. 
At the SMILE Factory location, Inhel and the other Tontatta have arrived. They announce to Franky that they have a plan for getting in, but require him to deal with Senor Pink first. He agrees to do so, while being slammed by Pink from behind. On the ground level, Sabo is still clashing intensely with Admiral Fujitora. 
In the royal palace, Doflamingo comments that his clone was not able to accomplish its objective. He asks Diamante and Trebol if they remember the day they met Law. Diamante reflects on how crazy he was, while Doflamingo laments that he must kill him, as he remembers how Law used to resemble him. He recollects his first memory of a young Law: a young child has infiltrated his lair, with his entire body covered in explosives. He asks Doflamingo to let him join his crew, as he wants to destroy everything that he sees. He goes on to say that he was raised in the white city, and doesn't have much time to live.

Bellamy reaches the palace rooftop, and Doflamingo asks him why he came. Bellamy then asks if it was really Doflamingo who sent Dellinger to kill him, wondering if he can no longer do anything for Doflamingo. Doflamingo laughs, and tells his former underling that the two of them had different goals from the start. While Bellamy was content to be an ordinary pirate, Doflamingo's main goal was to destroy the world, which seemingly horrifies Bellamy.
Elsewhere, the Corrida Colosseum fighters continue toward Doflamingo's castle. However, Dellinger focuses on one fighter: Suleiman. Several apparitions of Dellinger surround Suleiman, and the Donquixote officer rams into the combatant, stabbing him with his horns. The other fighters are shocked to see Suleiman go down, and turn their attention to the other officers. Chinjao, however, pays them no mind, as he has already climbed to the third floor of the palace. However, Gladius uses his powers to blow up part of the wall, causing Chinjao to fall. Boo is shocked at this turn of events, and does not notice a ten-ton Machvise falling on top of him until it is too late. The Dressrosa soldiers cheer as the tables are turned on the Colosseum fighters, while Lao G and Baby 5 deal with Orlumbus and Dagama, respectively.
In the south of the Dressrosa village, the citizens of Dressrosa manage to tie down one of the citizens who had been controlled by Parasite. The controlled citizen tearfully apologizes for all the atrocious actions he was forced to do, but the other citizens know it was not his fault. Just then, another citizen races toward them, exclaiming that he knew where King Riku and "God" Usopp were. Eager to end Doflamingo's game as soon as possible, the citizens take up arms and prepare to capture the two alive, using their "prisoners" as bait.
At the SMILE Factory, the overseers force the enslaved dwarves to clean up a spilled SAD container, and attempt to draw their attention away from the chaos outside by whipping them and continuing to tell them about Princess Mansherry's "illness". As the overseers bark out orders, however, the dwarves notice words on the outside of their cage, asking them to open the lock from the inside. The dwarves realize that the words were formed by pink bees and that Bian, Inhel, and Wicca were trying to contact them. The three dwarves on the outside see that the dwarf slaves noticed their message, and Bian instructs the bees to form the next message, which explains that they have been tricked. This message greatly confuses the dwarf slaves, and the overseers start to get angry at them for not working. Just then, the pink bees' final message forms, ordering them to fight. The dwarf slaves, though not entirely sure what is going on, know that their friends would never lie to them and start attacking the overseers. 
Meanwhile, Cavendish, Luffy, Law, and Kyros (the latter of whom is unseen to the former three) ride on Farul toward a wall behind which are the Doflamingo officers. Luffy is intent on defeating them right away, while Cavendish intends to climb up to the third floor. Suddenly, the two of them notice Kyros sitting behind them, which causes Cavendish to get angry and Luffy to get excited. Kyros says that he had followed the trail that Luffy had made, and an angry Cavendish calls him a stalker and yells at him to get off because Farul cannot hold three people. Luffy tells Kyros that they will be meeting up with Rebecca soon, and the former combatant is shocked and angry to find that his daughter is behind enemy lines. He asks Luffy why he did not stop her, since Rebecca is on Doflamingo's wanted list. Luffy reassures him, saying that Rebecca was with one of his crewmates, and Kyros states that there is only one thing he wants to do: kill Diamante, the man who killed his wife. Luffy asks Kyros if he intends to die, which Kyros denies, and that coupled with Cavendish's pleas for one of them to get off his horse cause them to take their eyes off the path. Before they know it, they are in the midst of the Colosseum combatants-Donquixote agents battle.
The arrival of Luffy causes the Colosseum fighters to become more organized in their attacks, surprising the Donquixote agents. The fighters unanimously agree to hold off the Donquixote agents in order to get Luffy, Cavendish, and Kyros to Doflamingo.

The arrival of Luffy causes the Colosseum fighters to become more organized in their attacks, surprising the Donquixote agents. The fighters unanimously agree to hold off the Donquixote agents in order to get Luffy, Cavendish, and Kyros to Doflamingo. Elizabello, Blue Gilly, and Ideo block the soldiers allowing Luffy and the others to move per command by Dagama. Annoyed, Dellinger headbutt-stabs Dagama, shocking Luffy, but Dagama suddenly wraps himself around Dellinger, trapping the Donquixote agent. He yells at the four of them to keep going, and Luffy and Cavendish use the Gomu Gomu no Jet Gatling and Biken: Saint Exupery to blast the Dressrosa soldiers away.
In the scrap yard of Dressrosa, Kin'emon finds his friend Kanjuro and, as a result of the reunion, sheds tears of joy. Dressrosa soldiers note how Kanjuro came out of the wall while Kin'emon apologizes for making him wait. Kanjuro states there is no need for apologies and states he knew he would return for him, as he eats a self-drawn cabbage in hand. He offers some to Kin'emon, who refuses, stating his cabbage makes his stomach hurt. He tells Kanjuro that he has much to tell him and that they must leave immediately due to the situation on top of Dressrosa. Kanjuro agrees and draws a bird on the wall and shouts "come forth" as his drawing comes to life, much to the shock of the Dressrosa citizens and soldiers. They note that despite the fact that the sketch is alive, his artwork is terrible and seems hardly capable of flight. Before they leave, one of the trapped citizens asks the samurai to let the others accompany them, stating they all have family on the island and wish to reunite with them. Kanjuro helped the trapped citizens and soldiers by drawing crude ladders towards the surface (though they complain about how horrible the ladders were drawn).
The scene changes back to the battlefield of Dressrosa as members of the Donquixote Family try to stop Luffy, Law, Cavendish and Kyros (all riding Farul) from moving forward, only to end up getting kicked back by Blue Gilly. Dellinger then rushes from behind and kicks him with his Decapitation High Heel and defeats him. Luffy notices this but is told not to get distracted by Cavendish. He goes on stating Doflamingo's whole Bird Cage game is a farce and that even if they deliver all 12 of the people on Doflamingo's hit list, he will never let anyone live now that the knowledge of his arms dealing and toy operation is out. In other words, everyone is guaranteed dead. He states that Doflamingo will stop at nothing to make sure that that information isn't leaked out, effectively isolating the island of Dressrosa from the rest of the world. In other words, the only way to survive and make it off the island is to take Doflamingo's head. He states that though Doflamingo is one step ahead of everyone, his grave error is having so many powerful fighters on the island, including Sai, Ideo and Hajrudin, who face off against the Donquixote Family Officers. Once Cavendish states that he will be taking Doflamingo's head, Luffy, Law and Kyros all disagree and reply that they will be taking Doflamingo's head. Luffy reminds Kyros that he wanted to have Diamante's head, but Kyros replies that by taking Doflamingo's head, he would be restoring King Riku's honor, and would be repaying his 10 year debt. This prompts Law to state he has a thirteen year old debt and Luffy stating he has a thirty year old one, which has Cavendish snapping at him for lying to make himself look good. Once they arrive at the third level they are confronted by large toy puppets.

Luffy, Law, Kyros and Cavendish charge forward from the large tin soldiers while trying to reach the 4th level.
Meanwhile Zoro has the upper hand as Pica is winded in his fight with Zoro as Zoro mocks him over trying to take Luffy's head. Pica charges his weapon at Zoro, but the swordsman cuts along his arm which has Pica swap out with a stone statue. He then merges behind Zoro and strikes with Pulpo Stone but Zoro dodges and notices Robin's group flying overhead. As Zoro asks how they are flying Bartolomeo takes joy in seeing Zoro again and asks for his autograph. Rebecca takes notice of Pica in fear while Robin asks Zoro to keep Pica busy so they can reach the fourth level. Zoro agrees just as Bartolomeo notices Pica has merged once again with the large stone body. Pica aims his fist at them as Bartolomeo panics, stating he won't be able to block something so large. Zoro then uses Santoryu: 1080 Pound Cannon on the large stone arm, finally injuring Pica. As Rebecca and Robin stare in relief and amazement, Zoro tells Pica that the Straw Hats biggest threats aren't composed of just "God Usopp" and "Straw Hat Luffy", but himself as well, stating he will one day become the greatest swordsman in the world and that Pica was never in his league to begin with. Bartolomeo then weeps uncontrollably at Zoro's actions. 
At the SMILE factory, the Dwarves continue to fight against the Donquixote staff. The staff member who whipped Chao, trying to defend himself, lied to the dwarf, saying that Mansherry would not be healed. Another dwarf put earplugs in Chao's ears, telling him that the staff is trying to lie. Chao got his revenge on the abusive staff member, swinging him around in the air. They eventually defeat the staff members with the earplugs in them while Maujii rushes to save Princess Mansherry hoping her illness was a lie. Despite the room she's kept in says "keep out" Moussy bursts right in much to their shock. Unfortunatelly for them, they see it's empty and Mansherry isn't there. Seeing that she's not there, the Dwarves decide to open the door to the factory. While that goes on Franky continues his battle with Senor Pink and, having heard the door beginning to open, he tricks Pink about an old woman in need of assistance in an alley. 
While the dwarves try to open the door, the boss of the factory, Kyuin stops them telling them they were born as nothing but slaves for them all. Refusing to let them go, Kyuin uses her vacuum machine and sucks up several Dwarves. They try to open the door, but they get sucked up before they can. Luckily, Franky shows up and opens the door completely for them and congratulates them for their work.

Franky shows up and opens the door completely for them. As he congratulates them for their work the Dwarves marvel over his body while Inhel and the others tell them Franky is their ally. Kyuin realizes who Franky is and is impressed he made it this far while she tries to finish him off herself. However, Franky grabs her, which has the Dwarves believe he loves her now that he hugged her, to which Pink comes back angry to discover Franky lied (but is relieved there was no old lady needing help). Kyuin keeps striking Franky with punches but the Cyborg remains calm as Pink launches an attack while Franky uses Kyuin to headbutt Pink on collision.
As Kyuin recovers she swears she'll rip Franky to pieces and that she's the boss of the Factory. However, Franky pulls her in and kisses her to shut her up, much to the shock of the Dwarves. Kyuin then starts acting very shy telling Franky he needs to take responsibility for his actions and become her boyfriend, but Franky ignores her. Pink gets up and tells her to stay out of this, calling her a naive young girl, and that it's a fight between men as he and Franky are heart-breakers. Their statements sent the surrounding fangirls swooning over the manliness of both Senor Pink and Franky. They then decide to take the fight seriously and unleash their "Diaper Bomb" and "Nipple Light Special" attacks on each other respectively.
The scene changes to Zoro vs Pica while the latter curses Zoro for allowing Robin's group to escape and swears he will not leave anyone alive. Robin's group then reaches to the first level while Leo gets a call from Moussy who reveals Mansherry may be in the palace with Doflamingo.
At the King's Plateau the citizens begin to climb up to his and Usopp's location. Usopp panics but Viola and Doldo remain calm given that they can't hide anywhere with the condition the kingdom is in and the citizens wouldn't do anything bad to them. Viola searches for the entire palace for Mansherry, trying places she had never been in in her years serving the Donquixote Family. Usopp marvels at Viola's power, when Tank Lepanto notices that two strangers, Kin'emon and Kanjuro, have arrived. He puts Kin'emon in a chokehold, but Usopp stops him, asking what Kanjuro's poorly drawn bird is. Kin'emon voices his surprise that Usopp, Viola, Lepanto, and Riku had managed to get up to the King's Plateau while a bunch of pirates were trying to climb up now. Usopp agrees noting cause of the rocks they can't climb up, but Kanjuro reveals he drew ladders for them and the citizens now begin to climb up the ladders now, much to Usopp's horror angrily asking why he did that. Kanjuro realizes he shouldn't have done that just as Viola finds Mansherry's location. Kanjuro feels disgraced for having done such a thing and attempts Seppuku to which Kin'emon stops him but Usopp tells him to do it.
Doldo tells Viola to use her ability to search everywhere for Mansherry's location. He states Doflamingo wouldn't kill her given her ability is useful to him. At the Royal Palace, a guard is seen feeding food to Mansherry while the latter is crying her eyes out wanting to go home and begging Leo to save her.

Viola searches for the entire palace for Mansherry, trying places she had never been in in her years serving the Donquixote Family. Viola then relays the information to Leo and Rebecca to which Leo expresses his worry for Mansherry. Viola tells him of the location and he realizes its the "time out" room. Leo then gets tearful as it reminds him of Scarlett and that whenever he and the others visited the palace they'd get in trouble with Viola by Doldo but Scarlett would bring them food to which Leo admits he misses Scarlett. Leo thanks Viola for the information and she tells him to be careful.
On the third level Cavendish tells Farul to run but the horse is bitten by the nutcracker. Luffy punches him off with a jet pistol while Cavendish tends to Farul noting his head was crushed. The toy easily recovers despite a hole in its chest much to Luffy's shock. Cavendish angrily retaliates at the toy with Biken: Round Table which cuts the toy's head off. However, it recovers again as the trio stand before the numerous toys thinking they're immortal. Law curses the situation noting he'd be able to make short work of them if he was free of his cuffs.
Back at the plateau Usopp hears from Viola that she saw some nasty toys in her direction and discovers that Sugar is awake, much to Usopp's horror. Usopp says she should be out cold after his face for at least two or three days. Viola worries since Luffy doesn't know of her ability and they are in trouble. At the palace, Sugar screams in terror seeing a foot soldier with a long nose and giving her sausages for food to which Sugar yells at him that people with long noses should die and she won't eat anything that looks like a long nose and only wants grapes. She then turns him into a nutcracker toy while frustrated over failing Doflamingo and swears she'll turn everyone in the country into toys, especially Usopp. Usopp tells his crew about the seriousness of Sugar back on the loose. He remembers how he forgot Robin when she was turned into a toy, and is desperate not to forget Luffy as well. He is prepared to do anything at any cost to protect his captain from Sugar, but Kanjuro asks him how he is going to do anything when he is so far away from the palace and especially since Luffy and Sugar are within the palace walls. Usopp replies that he has no other choice as he readies his Kabuto, and is ready to fulfill his role as the Straw Hat Pirates' sniper by providing support from afar.
As they reach the third level Robin notes there are some black balls heading towards them as she tries to warn Bartolomeo, but the latter is too entranced with working together with the Straw Hats and is attacked in explosions. As Bartolomeo falls Kabu warns them of the Pamu Pamu no Mi as Robin begins to fall as well. Gladius sees them and goes after Rebecca noting he didn't see people coming from above, but Robin uses her powers and grabs him telling Rebecca she'll deal with Gladius and tells her to move on ahead. Just then, Luffy sees something falling from the sky as Bartolomeo lands on a soldier as Robin flies herself down. As Robin gets reacquainted with Luffy, Law demands the key to his cuffs. Gladius falls down to as he curses Rebecca escaping while musing she was able to escape by herself swearing he will finish her himself. He then introduces himself as he prepares to face his opponents. Robin and Bartolomeo tell Luffy and the others to advance stating they'll fight Gladius and the toy nutcrackers. She then tells them that Rebecca is in the flower fields waiting for them and has Law's key.

At the flower fields Rebecca's group makes it while she worries over Robin but Leo reassures her that she and the crew are strong. Leo says they must go to save Mansherry and asks Rebecca if she'll be fine on her own. She says she'll be fine that Luffy and his friends should be at the fields any minute. As Leo and Kabu leave Rebecca notes that her father is out there somewhere also. Just then a noise is heard in the fields as a figure gets up from the thick flower field. The figure reveals himself to be Diamante who smiles at Rebecca's sudden appearance while Rebecca is horrified by his presence.
On Level 3 of the Royal Palace Plateau, Gladius fires several Rupture Balls at Luffy's party, but Bartolomeo blocks them with a barrier. He then creates a staircase using the barrier, excitedly telling an excited Luffy to use it. Luffy thanks Bartolomeo, and the latter thinks about his adoration of the former, thanking him for his mere existence.
Elsewhere, the fight between Fujitora and Sabo continues. The admiral asks Sabo about his objectives, but Sabo knows he is not acting seriously. Fujitora asks Sabo to sympathize with him because he is blind, but the Revolutionary says that he will not treat him differently from any other enemy. Fujitora, states that he has a title to keep and decides to be serious, unleashing Gravity Sword: Fierce Tiger which creates a gravitational force that presses on everything to his left. Sabo races to attack Fujitora, excited that he was able to get the admiral serious, while wondering what his true plan is. Fujitora manages to counter his strike, and states that if Sabo wants to play this "game" against him, he must be prepared to forfeit his life if he loses.
At the flower fields, Diamante explains he top executives are guarding the palace thinking no one would reach them but is surprised to see Rebecca. He takes delight laughing seeing Rebecca while the latter can't say anything too horrified by Diamante's appearance.
Picking up the still-handcuffed Law, Luffy races up the stairs, but the toy nutcrackers attempt to climb up the sides and block them. Kyros, however, races ahead and slashes their heads off at the mouth, before continuing ahead up the stairs first. Cavendish tells the three that he'll take care of the rest of the nutcrackers while they go ahead, citing his desire to avenge Farul as the reason.
Suddenly, Gladius throws some Rupture Balls at the staircase, but Bartolomeo blocks it, this time using his body instead of his barriers. Cavendish angrily asks him why he didn't use barriers, but Bartolomeo explains that there's a limit on the surface area of his barriers, and the stairs took up all of it. He states that he would gladly do anything, even give up his life, for Luffy. Cavendish is angry, but says he'll fight alongside the combatant until he can use his barriers again. Suddenly, a nutcracker tries to attack Bartolomeo, but it is quickly finished by Nico Robin, using Cinco Mano: Spank without even looking at it. Robin empathizes with Bartolomeo, stating that Luffy was worth betting their lives on, before going on the declare that he is the winning trump card. Scenes of various allies and crewmembers in the midst of their battles are shown as Robin makes her statement. Robin then uses Mil Fleur: Gigantesco Mano, which surrounds Gladius with giant hands while knocking several nutcrackers aside as Robin states that she won't let him lay a hand on her captain.

Luffy and Law race up Bartolomeo's staircase, with Luffy intent on beating Kyros to get to Doflamingo. However, Law tells him to focus on the nutcracker pursuing them.
On the Flower Field, Diamante brutally attacks Rebecca, the force of his attacks sending her sprawling on the ground. One of his strikes sends her reeling a large distance, causing the key to Law's handcuffs to fly away from her, and Rebecca remembers how she was entrusted with the key. Diamante taunts Rebecca, mocking her performance in the Corrida Colosseum finals and saying that she would be no match against Doflamingo, but that he would gladly battle her if she intended to avenge Scarlett. To his surprise, Rebecca runs away, carrying the key with her. Despite Diamante's taunts, Rebecca knew that she was no match for the Donquixote executive and all she could do now was give Luffy the key. However, Diamante uses his Devil Fruit powers to elongate his sword and slash Rebecca in the back, sending her crashing into the ground.
Diamante then stands over Rebecca, eager to finish the gladiator off. However, he decides to pull out his gun so he can kill Rebecca the same way he killed Scarlett. A bawling and desperate Rebecca then calls out Thunder Soldier's name as Diamante pulls the trigger. Right then, however, Kyros reaches the Flower Field and rushes at Diamante, slashing the Donquixote executive across the midsection. As Diamante falls, Rebecca looks at Kyros and remembers how he raised her as a toy, even when she did not know his identity, and taught her to fight despite her not wanting to. Kyros then apologized to Rebecca for forcing her to fight, as she was a peaceful person like her mother. Kyros assures his daughter that now she would never have to fight again, as Diamante gets back up. Kyros and Diamante attack each other, furiously exchanging blows.
While Rebecca watches the two fight, she suddenly hears Luffy calling out her name and sees Luffy approaching the staircase while being chased by the nutcracker. Luffy yells at Rebecca to throw him the key to Law's handcuffs, as he bounces off the nutcracker and flies through the air. With the nutcracker leaping after him, Luffy uses his Devil Fruit powers to take the key from Rebecca's hand before he and Law are swallowed by the nutcracker. A shocked Rebecca sinks to her knees, when suddenly Law activates ROOM around the nutcracker and cuts it to pieces. Luffy and Law then descend down to the Flower Field, and Law expresses relief at the removal of his Seastone handcuffs.
Diamante sees the two and in a fit of rage rushes toward them, but Kyros intercepts him. Kyros tells Luffy and Law that he has his hands full with Diamante, asking them to go after Doflamingo for him. Luffy asks Rebecca if she is glad to see her father again, which she tearfully affirms. Luffy and Law then head toward the palace, but Rebecca cries out to Luffy again, asking him if he is really going to defeat Doflamingo. Luffy simply puts on his Straw Hat and says to Rebecca that he is not Lucy, revealing that he is Straw Hat Luffy and that he will become king of the pirates. This enrages Diamante further, and he uses his Devil Fruit powers to extend his sword towards Luffy and Law. However, Law uses Shambles to switch himself and Luffy with a barrel, thereby teleporting them into the palace.
Inside the palace, Law uses Mes to remove the bullets that Doflamingo shot him with, bitterly realizing that they were made of lead. Down the hall, a Donquixote Pirate reports back to Sugar on a Den Den Mushi that Luffy and Law are in the palace. Sugar gleefully walks down the palace hall, spotting her two targets. On the King's Plateau, meanwhile, Usopp desperately tells Kanjuro to hurry up with his drawing, as they barely had any time left. Sugar draws nearer to the unsuspecting Luffy and Law, eager to gain revenge for her ten years of work being undone by turning them into toys and effectively erasing their existence.

Kanjuro finishes his artwork and Usopp uses it as ammunition he dubs as "Bagworm". He is aided by Viola's ability to snipe at Sugar. Usopp replies that he has no other choice as he readies his Kabuto, and is ready to fulfill his role as the Straw Hat Pirates' sniper by providing support from afar. Kin'emon asks if there is any way they can help, and Riku tells Hack and Tank Lepanto to help him protect Usopp and himself from the bounty-seeking mob, who are getting closer and closer using Kanjuro's net, but also tells them not to hurt any of the people. Usopp prepares his shot with the help of Viola's powers, when the mob reaches the top of the plateau.
The mob prepares to capture Riku, Viola, Kin'emon, and Usopp and take them to Doflamingo, and Kin'emon offers his assistance against them. Right then, Sugar approaches Luffy and Law, and the former wonders who she is. She feigns innocence claiming she's lost as she tries to get closer to them. As Riku unsuccessfully tries to get the mob to stop, Viola guides Usopp towards Luffy, Law, and Sugar's location. The Kabuto aims for the lower part of the center palace window, and as Sugar draws closer and closer to Luffy and Law, Usopp takes aim, determined not to lose his captain. Not wanting to let Sugar get his way, Usopp prepares to fire his Great Black Kabuto, when suddenly he realizes with a shock that he can see Luffy, Law, and Sugar's auras. As the mob gets closer to him, Usopp finally fires his Bagworm Star.
The mob finally gets their hands on Usopp, but all he can think about is the shot's trajectory. Knowing there is a slight tailwind, Usopp put in two gunpowder boosters to help the shot go farther, and made sure that the outer wrappings would fall away so that his shot would definitely hit Sugar. However, he knew that even if it missed a little, it would still work as the shot was meant to induce trauma. This becomes clear when the shot is revealed to be a replica of the expression Usopp made that knocked out Sugar the first time. It works, and Sugar is once again scared into unconsciousness. This shocks the Donquixote Pirates and confuses Luffy and Law as Usopp's face projectile is absorbed into the wall and becomes a drawing, and it is revealed that the projectile was a drawing made by Kanjuro. With her defeat, the giant nutcrackers are turned human again. Back at the King's Plateau, Viola congratulates a tied-up and beaten Usopp, and it is revealed that the mob managed to tie up all their targets, but were sent into shock by Viola's arrival. Viola confirms that Law and Luffy have managed to reach Doflamingo.
At that moment, Luffy and Law stand face to face with Doflamingo and Trebol, with Bellamy unconscious on the ground. The Shichibukai asks them why they have come, and they both reply that they have come to beat him. Doflamingo appears to express disappointment at this.

On Level 3 of the Palace Plateau, Cavendish is shocked to see Sugar's nutcrackers breaking apart on their own. Shortly, the nutcrackers turn back into people, with eight people being used to make each nutcracker. Bartolomeo rejoices that he can make barriers again, Cavendish expresses anger that Sugar used her own servants to make the toys, and Gladius reflects with annoyance that Sugar was defeated once again. Meanwhile, Sugar's servants crowd around her, shocked to see her knocked out again. The servants who Sugar turned into toys talk about how they were worried they would be toys forever, but Gladius reassures them that they would have been turned back, though he knows that that would have been impossible. 
On the fourth level of the palace, Luffy sees an injured Bellamy lying on the ground and expresses his worry, amusing Doflamingo who knew that the two used to be enemies. Luffy states that that was all in the past, and tells Doflamingo to let go of Bellamy. Doflamingo replies, saying Bellamy came to him with a death wish and that this was the way he deals with things, as Luffy remembers Bellamy's total devotion to Doflamingo. Doflamingo tells Bellamy that the latter was always a failure, and failure would be punished by death. Luffy replies angrily that Bellamy had changed and uses his powers to strike Doflamingo with his foot, despite Law warning against it. However, Doflamingo uses Bellamy to shield him from Luffy's kick, and Luffy kicks Bellamy in the face, much to the former's shock. 
Luffy hastily apologizes for injuring Bellamy, and Law yells at him to control his anger, otherwise he would fall into Doflamingo's hands. Law states that for Luffy to lose control of his emotions would be the same as losing his life, as the same thing happened to him, and he calls Doflamingo a heartless man. Suddenly, Trebol breaks out in laughter over Luffy kicking Bellamy, making Luffy angrier. Doflamingo replies to Law's accusation, saying he is not heartless but rather has reached his boiling point due to Luffy and Law destroying his SAD Factory, killing Monet and Vergo, kidnapping Caesar Clown, freeing all the toys, and trying to destroy the SMILE Factory. Now that Luffy and Law are also trying to take his head, Doflamingo says that things have gone overboard, both in their actions and his anger. Doflamingo states that his anger is where it was 13 years ago, and Law states that he would not have been here if it were not for that event, and Doflamingo says that if it had not happened, Law would have been the third Corazon and have been right at his side. 
Suddenly Doflamingo uses the move "Black Knight" to make another string clone of himself, which then attacks Law. Luffy then resolves to go after the real Doflamingo, when suddenly Bellamy attacks him with two swords. Luffy is confused and shocked at what the pirate is doing, but Law knows that Doflamingo is using his powers to control Bellamy. A weeping Bellamy apologizes to Luffy for what he is doing and tells Straw Hat to stop him.
All across Dressrosa the Coliseum fighters continue fighting the officers and soldiers while neither is gaining any advantage against one another. 
Doflamingo also goads Luffy in that direction, but Luffy refuses, saying again that Bellamy is his friend. Doflamingo laughs about how even a single punch could kill Bellamy in his condition, and alludes to what Law had previously stated to Tashigi - the weak cannot choose how they die. 
Luffy gets more angry that Doflamingo is not even bothering to fight them himself, and tells Law he is abandoning their plan. Law angrily berates him, and is angrier to see Luffy preparing an attack in his direction. Trebol laughs that Luffy is betraying his comrade, when Law suddenly activates Room, and switches his position with Doflamingo. By the time Doflamingo realizes Law's plan, it was too late, as Luffy hits him in the midsection with Gomu Gomu no Red Hawk. 
Seeing his master attacked, Trebol desperately calls his name. Now sitting at Doflamingo's throne, Law looked up towards Trebol, before rolling upward and sliced him apart using a technique called Radio Knife. He then labelled Luffy as the worst, but the latter reminds him that he too, is a part of that generation.

At the King's palace, Doflamingo is seen recovering from Luffy's Red Hawk to which he spits blood out. Law tells Luffy that all the damage they've managed to inflict are superficial wounds, stating that the strategy they used won't work a second time.
In Dressrosa Koala finds Sabo and sees if he's alright. Sabo says he is while Koala scolds him for not maintaining his position stating he should not be fighting an Admiral just because of his emotions. She says he could put the Revolutionary Army at war with them but Sabo retorts stating all that mattered to him was saving Luffy. Koala then violently pinches his cheeks and continues scolding him. Sabo then recalls his talk with Fujitora as the Admiral states that the Marines in this country cannot become heroes. When Sabo asks what others will think of his opinion and he states then he'll use the excuse of having been compromised. Sabo says that's a gamble, adding that he hopes the admiral has good luck. Back in the present, Sabo, who hasn't been paying attention to Koala continues to be pinched by her while she shouts that Hack and herself are always the ones that suffer in his place when people are annoyed by his selfishness. 
At Usopp's location, the citizens begin to take Usopp and the others to Doflamingo's location to lure out the other criminals, when pirates show up and start killing off civilians to get the bounty on their heads. Despite the civilians trying to reason with them, the pirates continue killing them as Riku steps in and fights them. He releases Hack and Tank as they fight off the pirates and save the civilians. Seeing this, they all release Usopp and the others much to their confusion. They go on to state that by just manipulating Doldo for one night 10 years ago Doflamingo was able to turn the whole country against him and his bloodline. They state that after realizing the truth they just want to be saved from Doflamingo's cruel game. They go on stating that they were confused and don't know what to do, begging their former king to help them. The citizens then bow before Doldo stating if he wants them to fight they will do so. Doldo asks them to wait a little longer as he realizes he too is placing his faith in Luffy. At that moment, Fujitora shows up much to the surprise (and horror) of the Straw Hats. He states that he too will not allow Dressrosa to go to war. He then tells Doldo that he would be joining him in placing his bet on Luffy. 
Back at the plateau, Luffy continues fighting Doflamingo as Trebol tries to put himself together as he states he knows everything about Law's ability and that they originally wanted the Ope Ope no Mi for themselves. However, he can't reform himself like usual. Law reveals "Radio Knife" is something that creates a different incision than a normal amputation and that for a few minutes he won't be able to reattach his body. Law rushes at Trebol using a move called "Injection Shot" as Trebol tries to reason with Law stating he helped take care of him. Trebol uses "Snot Sword" but Law dodges and charges, but Doflamingo kicks Law's attack away. Doflamingo aims an attack as Trebol grabs Law's legs as Doflamingo uses "Full Bright" that pierces Law from above. Luffy notices this and tries to help but Doflamingo rushes over to kick him. Luffy hardens his arm with Busoshoku Haki but Doflamingo does the same to his leg and it overpowers Luffy. Doflamingo then uses his powers to tie Luffy's hands behind his back and has Bellamy slash Luffy with a sword. 
As the duo lay incapacitated Doflamingo tells Law how he hates being looked down upon. He goes on calling them scum and that the fact that they actually thought they could defeat him was ludicrous, going on to reveal the sacred bloodline of his heritage as a World Noble. As Luffy and Bellamy react shocked by this revelation (Law already discovered beforehand back in Green Bit), Doflamingo states his father abandoned all of his former riches and privileges and took him and all his family to a garbage dump of a world. Labeling his father's wish to "live like real humans" as nonsense and foolish, Doflamingo ridicules his father and states how much he hated him. He then recalls himself as a child asking his father where the slaves are and wants to buy some. He then tells his father commoners refuse to bow to him, and that they are even hunting down the family. A scene of his mother dying is shown as the the rest of the family heard angry commoners shouting for the Celestial Dragon family. Back in the present Doflamingo states by the time he was 10 he saw the heaven and hell of the world and later killed him and took his head back to Mary Geoise to reclaim his heritage. However, the Celestial Dragons labeled them as a "family of traitors" and refused to accept him as one ever again. Doflamingo then swore he would destroy every part of the world they rule. He tells them the life they have lived is nothing compared to what he's gone through and that a grown man doesn't have time to play with them.

At the north-west town of Dressrosa, Primula, the Marines are trying to stop the panicking animals that are rushing against Doflamingo's Birdcage, resulting in their big wounds. Meanwhile, pirates have been looting the towns and are being attacked by other Marines. Vice Admiral Maynard is soon informed by a Marine about the fight between Fujitora and Sabo which ended up in a standstill. Maynard grows concerned about Fujitora's thought regarding the World Government, and quickly orders his men to ease the chaos within the city, where pirates are rampaging through the town and people are dying. A girl is then seen crying over her dying father.
Meanwhile on top of the palace, the Doflamingo clone and Bellamy attacked Luffy, who retaliates using his legs to defend himself with a new attack called "Gomu Gomu no Octopus Stamp". However he is hit by Doflamingo's clone and thrown down from the palace. Doflamingo's clone and Bellamy followed him down, and taunting Luffy about what he didn't know what people would do to a fallen World Noble if given the opportunity. Luffy gets back and doesn't seem to understand anything about it.
Law manages to stand back up on his feet. As the real Doflamingo prepares to kill him, Law questions Doflamingo about his fallen status and yet still have the ability to mobilize CP0. Doflamingo reveals that he knows about "Mary Geoise's national treasure", which will shake the world if its existence is revealed to the public. Therefore he can't be killed by the World Nobles, who had ceaselessly desired his death, in the end, he managed to use his knowledge to blackmail them and gain their cooperation.
The heavenly demon soon laments about the power of the Ope Ope no Mi that he should've had taken back then, and adds that if he owns it, he'll have the power to control the Mary Geoise National Treasure and take over the world. He further comments about the strength of the Ope Ope no Mi, which is able to transplant personality, and asking Law what its true power is, claiming that it is capable to fulfill mankind's greatest dream, thus making it known as the "Ultimate Devil Fruit". Law replies that he knows about it, but isn't interested about it, revealing its strongest power is to grant eternal life with the "Ageless Surgery", which upon use, will also kill the user of the Ope Ope no Mi. Doflamingo shouts that he never wanted Law to actually have it and attacks him, reminding Law of the many teachings he accepted in the past from Diamante, Lao G, and Gladius. Law soon claims that the reason he is there is because of Corazon, and that thanks to him, he'll be able to take on Doflamingo right now.
While they continue fighting, Law has a flashback to 16 years ago, at the port town of Spider Miles, somewhere in North Blue. Younger Diamante and Trebol are speaking to a child Trafalgar Law, who says that he is going to die in three years and two months, as said by his dead parents, and thus wants to kill and ruin everything as much as he can. Diamante replies that Law is a crazy kid and says that a lot of kids who "try out" for the crew always end up running away crying after two days, and revealing that Baby 5 and Buffalo, who appear from outside the building they're in and saying that Corazon is back, are the only children left. Corazon enters the room and slips onto the ground thanks to a prank pulled by young Baby 5 and Buffalo, both who laughed at his clumsy fall. He gets upset and hits the two kids. However, Baby 5 soon after offers him some tea that is actually boiling hot, which makes Corazon spit the tea out and fall backwards again. As Baby 5 laughs at him, she seems to start cleaning the mess. Diamante then comments about Corazon being stupid and possessing no concentration but claiming he has talent and lost his ability to speak due to a traumatic incident from long ago. He also says he hates children just as Corazon grabs the young Law by his head and throws him out the window. Corazon lights a cigarette, setting his coat on fire in the process. Law barely survives the fall and looks up shocked at the burning Corazon, vowing to kill him.

In the town of Spider Miles in the North Blue, a 10-year old Law sits alone in a trash dump and is told it is time to eat. Seeing Corazon walking along, Law stomps on one of his cigarette butts and curses him before being interrupted by Senor Pink, who tells him that Donquixote Doflamingo wants to ask him something. However, as Law claims he also has something to say, Corazon picks him up and throws him into the trash heap again before walking away. Seeing this, Senor Pink notes that Corazon has no mercy as Law swears to kill him.
At dinner, the Donquixote Family sits around a table and eats as Doflamingo reveals that their next target is Rakesh, which has been allying with other groups. When Law walks in, Giolla is hostile towards him, only for Doflamingo to reveal he called Law, shocking his crew members. Laughing, Trebol asks Law if he wants to leave after a week of being beaten by Corazon as Diamante notes that they only have the best because both kids and adults run away from them. He wonders how much longer Law will last, prompting Law to proclaim that he is not going anywhere. Lao G tells Law to never forget the Blood Law no matter how he is harmed because the Family will fall apart if a member defies the authority of the executives. Buffalo reveals that he once nearly died from torture after laughing at Pica's voice as Law claims it does not scare him because he has already seen hell.
Laughing at this, Doflamingo states that he will put to death anyone who attacks Corazon because the latter is his biological brother. When a shocked Machvise points out a white patch of skin on Law's chest, Giolla recognizes it as Amber Lead Syndrome, which causes agonizing pain to those infected. This prompts Buffalo to believe it is contagious while telling Law to leave. However, Doflamingo angrily tells Giolla to not spread rumors as facts before explaining how Amber Lead Syndrome is caused by poisoning and is not contagious. While Buffalo is still nervous around Law, Doflamingo asks Law if there are any other survivors of Flevance, only for Law to admit he does not know because he was desperate to get out. When asked how he escaped, Law reveals that he hid under a mountain of corpses. Doflamingo asks Law what he holds a grudge against, prompting Law to claim he wants to destroy everything and is not afraid of death before telling Corazon that he will get his revenge at any cost. Baby 5 berates Law for saying this despite the punishment he will receive, but Law merely glares at her, resulting in her clinging to Buffalo while crying.
The following day, in Rakesh, Gladius blows down the door to a pirate hideout before walking in with Giolla, Lao G, Baby 5, Senor Pink, and Machvise. The two groups enter a firefight as the Donquixote Pirates use their various Devil Fruit powers to overwhelm their enemies. With all the enemy pirates defeated, the Donquixote Pirates begin collecting the money present as Baby 5 asks Gladius what the city Law is from is like. Gladius reveals that it is called Flevance and that it was completely white. The citizens eventually discovered a type of lead called Amber Lead underground and they used the lead to create many different types of goods that people everywhere wanted to buy. This made it their primary business, and the World Government quickly took advantage of it by helping Flevance ship their goods.
In the past, Law studied with his father, only to be interrupted by his sister Lami asking him to come to the festival with her. When Law refused, his mother told him that too much studying is not good for him, only to be surprised when Lami asked her to come as well. Law's father said the three of them should all go, and after his mother agreed to go for only thirty minutes, Law agreed to go.
In the present, Lao G notes that everyone wanted to go to Flevance. When Baby 5 states that she wants to go there as well, Lao G reveals that it is long gone, shocking her. The Donquixote Pirates walk away from the hideout while being fired upon as Lao G and Gladius explain that the World Government performed a geological survey 100 years ago. It revealed that Amber Lead was poisonous and would erode the body if dug up and handled. However, the World Government and the royalty of Flevance kept this a secret because of the fortune that Amber Lead would bring them, so the citizens kept digging it up. As Gladius fires at the pirates attacking them, he explains that the traces and effects of Amber Lead would build up in each generation, consequentially shortening their lifespan by about 20 more years each, which meant that a generation doomed to die before adulthood was eventually born. Senor Pink joins the other crew members in walking as Gladius notes the world discovered the poisonous effects of Amber Lead too late.
In the past, Lami and Law's mother rushed toward the parade taking place as Lami told Law to hurry up. However, as Lami ran, she suddenly stopped and clutched her chest as Law noticed a white patch of skin on her arm. Around that time, all people eventually began to collapse at the same time due to the buildup of Amber Lead in their bodies. They began to die with immense pain flooding their bodies, which no doctor could stop. Law's father saw Lami's white patch of skin and began to cry as Law and his mother watched.
In the present, Baby 5 asks Gladius if everyone in Flevance died, only for Senor Pink to claim the real tragedy began after this event. He explains that the citizens of the surrounding countries placed a quarantine on Flevance because they thought Amber Lead Disease was contagious. The royalty escaped the country early with the help of the World Government, abandoning the ordinary citizens in the process, and anyone who attempted to escape while seeking treatment was shot dead like monsters escaping from a cage. Senor Pink notes that the manner in which the disease was treated as someone else's problem was very human-like before stating that Flevance would not remain quiet and had plenty of lead bullets, which eventually lead to a war breaking out. The Donquixote Pirates continue gunning down their foes as Senor Pink explains how the countries neighboring Flevance showed no mercy toward their attackers because they justified their assault as self-defense.
In the past, Flevance and its citizens were attacked as soldiers gunned down anyone they found. A nun informed Law that some soldiers promised to let only the children escape, only for Law to state that he cannot leave because his sister was dying. Noting this, the nun promised to come back on the next ship to get Law as the other children told Law to come with them. Law began to tremble, but the nun told him that there is always hope and that a loving hand will one day reach out to him, causing Law to smile. Later, Law's father attempted to plead with other doctors to come and help, trying to tell them the truth about Amber Lead, but was unsuccessful.
Elsewhere, Law stood next to his bedridden sister, whose body hurt and was turning whiter every day. In response, Law held her hand and promised that their father will find a cure. As soldiers gunned down civilians outside, Lami asked Law why it was so noisy, prompting Law to lie about there being a festival going on. Soon, soldiers entered the hospital with orders to kill any Amber Lead patients they find, prompting Law to have Lami hide in a closet before sneaking past two soldiers. However, Law found his mother and father shot to death and screamed in grief, alerting the soldiers to his presence. Leaping through a window as the soldiers fired at him, Law landed outside and ran away in tears as the soldiers pursued him. Eventually, Law escaped his pursuers by hiding under a bridge, and returned to find the children and nun lying dead outside, causing him to fall to his knees in tears while remembering the nun's words about hope. Upon returning to the hospital, Law found it burning and, realizing Lami has died as well, suffered a complete mental breakdown while screaming her name.
In the present, Senor Pink reveals that Flevance perished as the Donquixote Pirates finish off the pirates whom they were fighting. As Senor Pink notes that any 10-year old who experienced this would have their personality screwed up, Law walks through the garbage dump in Spider Miles until he sees Corazon reading a newspaper. Law notes that everyone he loved died while Corazon lived, claiming it is not fair. Hefting a dagger, Law says that no one will know if he keeps quiet about it and that no one will care if a scumbag goes missing before lunging toward Corazon and stabbing him in the back. Seeing this, Buffalo exclaims that Law broke the Blood Law and that he must inform Doflamingo.

In Spider Miles, as Donquixote Doflamingo sleeps, he starts dreaming about his past. Hearing the voices of people talking about how they should kill the Donquixote Family because they are former World Nobles who will not be saved by the Marines, Doflamingo begins to sweat and grind his teeth in agitation.
In the past, Doflamingo, Rosinante, and Homing were hung from the windows of their burning house by ropes around their arms and were blindfolded by a mob commoners, who desired revenge for the suffering the Celestial Dragons had inflicted on them. The commoners debated how they should kill the Donquixotes, ranging from shooting them with a thousand arrows to breaking all their bones with a hammer, but one of them told the others to keep them alive so they could suffer. The citizens recount the sufferings caused by the World Nobles, who had hurt them, their relatives, and their countries whenever they felt like it. A man with a bow and arrow stepped up and took aim at Doflamingo while demanding to know if they had ever been hungry before firing the arrow at Doflamingo to see if it would hurt him. Though the arrow barely missed him, Doflamingo screamed in terror as the man demanded to know if the Celestial Dragons had ever felt any kind of pain before firing once more.
Doflamingo jolts awake in a cold sweat and begins to pant as the Den Den Mushi in his room rings. After putting on his sunglasses and drinking alcohol, Doflamingo picks up the receiver and is informed that Law did something.
Seventeen years ago in Mary Geoise, several World Nobles expressed their shock at Homing and his family giving up their status to become normal humans. This prompted Homing to claim he had been a human ever since he was born, causing one of the World Nobles to believe Homing implied they were human as well and become offended. However, Homing stated that he did not care what they thought because he thought humans are wonderful, which further shocked the other World Nobles. The Donquixote Family was ordered to leave Mary Geoise immediately.
Soon after, a World Government ship took the Donquixote Family to a non-member island in the North Blue. After being informed that an adequate house and assets have been prepared for him and his family, Homing thanked the government official before handing over his and his family's World Noble identification chips. After they arrived at their new house with their belongings, Homing told his family that they would lead a humble life here. Inside, Doflamingo asked his father where their slaves were as Rosinante rummaged through a chest full of treasure, only for Homing to reveal that they had to educate Doflamingo and Rosinante from scratch.
After Doflamingo changed into normal clothes, his mother claimed he looked wonderful, but Doflamingo tore off his tie in anger while claiming that he did not want to wear clothes that made him look like a slave. Preventing Doflamingo from tearing off his shirt, Homing informed him that they would be living as humans from now on, to Doflamingo's confusion, and that their life would be richer than it was in Mary Geoise because they would have heart instead of many material things.
Later, Homing and Doflamingo went to a marketplace, where Homing tried to buy some food. When the vendor noted that he did not look familiar, Homing revealed that he recently moved from Mary Geoise, which caused the vendor and those nearby to gasp in shock. A man asked Homing if he was a World Noble, but Homing explained how he had cast this title aside and they wished to become friends with the townspeople. Soon after, Doflamingo berated people crossing the street for not kneeling before him and demanded that someone give him a gun. That night, the commoners found the Donquixote Family's house and burned their home to the ground while searching for them. The Donquixote Family watched in terror from the forest nearby as Doflamingo asked his father why the commoners did not kneel before them. As searchers ran out of the burning building to report that the family was not inside, the angry mob agreed to make them experience several centuries' worth of suffering.
The Donquixote Family was forced to flee through the forest in the rain as the angry mob pursued them. While running, Doflamingo tripped and wondered why the commoners were coming after them. Eventually, the family found a run-down shack in a garbage dump, where they took shelter from the mob. Homing suggested that they stay here for a while, but Doflamingo voiced his disapproval because he could not stand the smell and bugs. Eventually, dawn broke, and while the family was sleeping, the angry mob came across the dump and began shouting to one another, which woke them. Seeing the commoners approaching with weapons, Homing told his family that they had to run immediately.
Eventually, the family found shelter in a small village, and Homing contacted the World Nobles, whom he begged to accept his wife and children back into Mary Geoise because he did not expect things would be this bad. However, the World Nobles refused to do so because the family could not take back their privileges and told Homing to never call them again because he was just a human. Soon after, Doflamingo and Rosinante were caught stealing bread and were badly beaten as punishment. Doflamingo told his father that he felt pain and hunger for the first time in his life. Doflamingo and Rosinante later ate from a garbage pile before bringing their mother some food, only to find she was sick. Eventually, she died, leaving Rosinante crying over her body as Doflamingo blamed Homing for her death. Not long afterward, the angry mob found the family, leading Homing to beg them to take him and pardon his sons as Doflamingo cursed his father for bringing them to ruin.
In the present, Giolla and Machvise bring Law to Doflamingo as Giolla reveals that they found him trying to escape. As Buffalo and Baby 5 watch, with Buffalo noting that they will torture Law for stabbing Corazon, Law notices Corazon is present and wonders if he will die for nothing after bribing Buffalo with ice cream to stay quiet. However, Doflamingo reveals that he has called Law here to welcome him to the Donquixote Pirates, shocking Law, Baby 5, and Buffalo. Doflamingo explains how Law has a certain quality in his eyes after experiencing such a horrible past, while Law wonders why Corazon has not yet told Doflamingo what happened. When Law points out that he is going to die in three years regardless of his potential, Doflamingo claims that this depends on his luck before explaining how the Donquixote Pirates specialize the black market and handle Devil Fruits, which means there could be a fruit that can cure his Amber Lead poisoning. Doflamingo states that there may be such a fruit among the Devil Fruits they handle in the next three years before revealing that he will train Law to become his right-hand man in ten years.
Corazon begins coughing and reveals the wound on his abdomen, prompting Doflamingo to ask him what happened. However, Corazon communicates that an enemy caused it and he finished him off, prompting Doflamingo to tell him to get his wound treated as a shocked Law wonders if Corazon covered up for him. Later, Doflamingo informs his crew that they will be moving their base toward Reverse Mountain while expanding their business. As they were moving across the sea, the pirates engaged in combat with the Marines and pulled bank heists. At one point, Law and Baby 5 were attacked by a pirate named Wellington, whom they were saved from by Doflamingo and his executives. Law began studying under Doflamingo, training with firearms under Gladius, learning martial arts with Lao G, and practicing swordsmanship with Diamante.
Two years later, Baby 5 and Buffalo tell Law their real names, but he initially refuses to tell them his. When Baby 5 complains that he is no fun, Law points out that he will die regardless of whether or not he has fun before noting that he may die sooner than he predicted. However, Buffalo claims that he will tell Doflamingo of Law stabbing Corazon two years ago if he does not reveal his true name, prompting Law to reveal his full name is Trafalgar D. Water Law, which alerts Corazon. Law admits that he should not be telling them this because his family has kept the initial D. a secret for many generations, and is irritated when Baby 5 and Buffalo complain about this not being interesting. However, Law is suddenly grabbed by the collar and hauled away by Corazon. After being thrown into an alley, Law confronts Corazon, but Corazon asks him if what he said before is true. Not knowing who is speaking, a surprised Law demands to find out. Corazon then faces Law and tells him to get away because he should not be around Doflamingo with the initial D. in his name.

Law stands frozen as he tries to comprehend the fact that Corazon can talk. Corazon says that he was always able to talk, and Law asks him why he kept it a secret from Doflamingo. Corazon replies that he never told Doflamingo he was a mute, although Law shouts that that is the same as trickery. Law's shouting causes some of the citizens to notice him and Corazon in the alley, so Corazon creates a circular barrier around them. Law realizes in shock that he can no longer hear anyone around them, and Corazon says that he put up a soundproof wall and no one can hear them now either. Corazon reveals that he ate the Nagi Nagi no Mi and became a soundless human, which shocks Law even further and leads him to ask if everything Corazon did was an act, which he affirms, despite accidentally lighting his shoulder on fire immediately afterwards.
After Corazon admits that he has always been clumsy, he tells Law that he never considered the other Donquixote Pirates friends. His goal was to stop his older brother Doflamingo from going out of control, as Doflamingo was a monster. Corazon remembers when he, Doflamingo, and Homing were lynched. He had begged for the mob to end his life while Homing had begged the mob to spare his sons and kill him instead. However, Doflamingo did not beg, but rather swore to stay alive and take revenge on the mob, shocking everyone present. In the present, Corazon tells Law that Doflamingo was born to be evil and the only ones who knew about his true brutality are him, the other three executives, and Vergo, who is away on a top-secret mission that only Doflamingo knows about.
Corazon tells Law to run away before he becomes like Doflamingo, but Law retorts that he wants to be like that. At that moment, Buffalo and Baby 5 peek at the two and are confused to see their lips moving with no sound coming out. Corazon then tells Law that his initial "D." means he is from the fated Family of D. Back in Mary Geoise, children were disciplined by being told that "D." would eat them. Corazon explains how notorious the D. initial and the people who carried it were, saying that in some places D's were known as "God's Natural Enemy". Corazon says that the World Nobles were often considered gods, and that the D's would destroy their world.
After taking in the information, Law becomes angry again and said he only joined the Donquixote Pirates to kill people violently and that he would die in a year without doing anything else. Corazon tells him to go find a cure, but Law says there is none before running to tell Doflamingo about Corazon's trickery. Corazon angrily chases after him and attacks him, but Law uses his newfound battle skills to throw Corazon in a dumpster. Law meets up with Buffalo and Baby 5, and Buffalo berates him for breaking the Blood Law again, but Law bribes him to keep quiet again. Later, Corazon emerges from the alley cursing that he told Law everything and preparing to pack his stuff before Doflamingo returns and leave. However, to his shock he encounters Doflamingo on their ship, and Doflamingo tells him that Tsuru's ship was after them and they needed to leave. Law then approaches a dumbfounded Corazon and tells him he decided to not tell Doflamingo to repay Corazon for not telling Doflamingo about the stabbing two years ago.
Later, the Donquixote Pirates are back out to sea being chased by Tsuru's ship. Suddenly, Diamante realizes that Corazon and Law are gone, and Senor Pink pulls out a note from Corazon that says he has gone to cure Law's illness. Meanwhile, Corazon sails away on a dinghy with Law tied up at the front. The young pirate is kicking and screaming to go back when suddenly the Den Den Mushi rings. Corazon picks it up and tells the person on the other end that he is taking a break from his mission for a while. The person on the other end is Sengoku, and he asks Corazon about the three kids who had not left the Donquixote Pirates before entrusting Corazon to continue his mission after his break and hanging up. Sengoku is then approached by two Marines, one of whom, Vergo, is requesting to transfer to the G-5 Branch. Law is suspicious about the exchange and asks Corazon if he is with the Marines, which he denies.
Corazon drags Law to a hospital, promising to take him to every hospital until his Amber Lead Syndrome is cured. Corazon is very hopeful about this hospital, but upon hearing of Law's condition and where he is from, the doctors back away in fear and activate a state of emergency. Feeling the pain of his past, Law runs out of the hospital, and Corazon regrets having to bring Law's memories of Flevance back before beating up the doctors and causing an explosion in the hospital. They visit several more hospitals, with the exact same results, and Law's condition only grows worse. Six months later, Corazon and Law camp out near the ocean. A drunk Corazon stands over Law, who he thinks is asleep, and expresses his regret that Law has to relive the pain he felt in Flevance. Corazon begins crying and states that the pain felt when Law stabbed him was nothing compared to the pain Law must be feeling before walking off. Law, however, was awake and heard everything, and begins crying as well. The next morning, Law wakes Corazon up for breakfast, calling him "Cora-san" to his astonishment.
Back in the present, Law presses on his attack on Doflamingo as he swears to himself never to forget the tears Corazon had that night. Inside the palace, Luffy continues dodging Bellamy's strikes when he realizes the Doflamingo clone is behind him. The Doflamingo clone flies toward Luffy as he screams out.

Under attack from Donquixote Doflamingo's string clone and a Parasite-controlled Bellamy, Luffy blocks the string clone's Goshikito with a Busoshoku Haki-covered leg before being sent flying into a wall by a slash from Bellamy, only to get up and note the attack did not cut the strings binding his hands. Hearing a rumble from above, Luffy realizes Law is in trouble and decides to not remain any longer. When asked what he will do by the string clone, Luffy uses Gear Third to pump up both his forearms before coating them in Busoshoku Haki and tearing apart the strings, to the surprise of the string clone, as he declares that it is his turn. Meanwhile, on the roof above, Law gets up while bleeding and glares at Doflamingo, who laughs, and Law recalls events from 13 years ago.
In the past, as a Den Den Mushi rings, Law tries to bring Corazon's attention to it, but Rosinante, enamored by Law calling him Cora-san, insists that he say it again. Eventually, Rosinante picks up the receiver and is greeted by his brother, Doflamingo. When asked if he is there, Rosinante taps the snail's back three times, prompting Doflamingo to note that it has been six months since Rosinante left with Law before asking if Law is there as well. Upon having this confirmed with another three taps, Doflamingo states that he is glad they are both okay and asks if Rosinante has found a good doctor, and when Rosinante confirms that he has not, Doflamingo admits that he thought as much before asking Rosinante to return to the ship with Law because they might be able to cure Law's disease. Upon hearing Law's audible shock, Doflamingo grins and reveals that they have received information about the Ope Ope no Mi: a group of pirates who are unaware of its true value will be selling it to the Marines for a huge sum of money. Noting that the World Government is likely pulling the strings on this, Doflamingo states that they will be seizing the fruit despite the risk doing so presents because he will be having Rosinante, his most trusted ally, eat it and cure Law's disease.
Hanging up on Rosinante, Doflamingo asks Trebol, Pica, and Diamante if they have noticed how the Marines, including their usual pursuer Tsuru, have not appeared near the Donquixote Pirates during the past six months that Rosinante has been gone. Diamante asks Doflamingo if he believes Rosinante had been tipping off the Marines before this and notes that it could just be a coincidence, prompting Doflamingo to claim that he hopes it is because Rosinante is his biological brother.
Meanwhile, Rosinante holds Law and spins him around while proclaiming that this is good news because they will be able to cure his disease without doctors if they can get the Ope Ope no Mi. When Law wonders what the Ope Ope no Mi is, Rosinante explains how it allows one to modify human bodies, perform miraculous operations, and cure unknown diseases, prompting Law to claim that he does not believe in magic like this. Rosinante clarifies that one needs medical knowledge in order to do all this and drops Law before pointing out how Law has been learning medical knowledge and techniques for a long time because he was the son of a respected doctor in Flevance, and when Law wonders what this has to do with the Ope Ope no Mi, Rosinante proclaims that Law is the perfect one to eat it. However, when Law states that Doflamingo wants him to eat it instead, Rosinante reveals that eating two Devil Fruits will cause a person to die and that Doflamingo does not know he is a Devil Fruit user. Stating that they will not be returning to the Donquixote Pirates, Rosinante explains how he decided this when he noticed their trip taking longer than he expected and states that Doflamingo probably knows he is a traitor by now. When Law says that it does not sound like this is true because Doflamingo wants him to eat the Ope Ope no Mi, Rosinante reveals that there is another reason that Doflamingo wants him to eat the fruit and thinks to himself that Doflamingo wants eternal life in exchange for his own life. Noting that he will get killed if he returns, Rosinante tells Law that they will surprise the Donquixote Pirate, get the Ope Ope no Mi, have Law eat it, and go into hiding somewhere, surprising Law.
Telling Law to make preparations for setting sail, Rosinante calls Admiral Sengoku. After Rosinante confirms his identity, Sengoku states that he had been worried because he had not heard from Rosinante from a while before telling Vice Admiral Monkey D. Garp to leave, only for Garp to tell him to make him green tea because he just brought him senbei crackers. Recognizing Garp's voice, Rosinante asks Sengoku if now is not a good time, only for Sengoku to tell Garp to get out because he has to work. At the Marine Headquarters, Garp expresses his irritation at Sengoku treating him like a nuisance before asking Vice Admiral Kuzan if he wants to eat senbei crackers with him.
After being told that he can talk now, Rosinante asks Sengoku if the Marines have a deal regarding the Ope Ope no Mi, causing Sengoku to spit out his tea in shock. When Sengoku asks him how he knows, Rosinante reveals that Doflamingo knows, prompting Sengoku to claim that it is top secret. Law thinks about who Rosinante is talking to as Rosinante asks Sengoku what the Donquixote Pirates have been doing recently, and when Sengoku admits that they probably cannot track them down before the trade occurs, Rosinante reveals that Doflamingo is planning on stealing the fruit before the trade, surprising Sengoku even further. While watching Rosinante, Law's vision begins to blur as he becomes dizzy. When Rosinante asks him where the trade will occur, Sengoku reveals that it will be three weeks from now at Rubeck Island in North Blue. Rosinante decides to meet up with Doflamingo and his crew at Swallow Island three days before the trade, prompting Sengoku to realize that this means the Doflamingo Pirates will be waiting there before the trade and proclaim that the Marines will ambush and capture them there. When told to stay away from the island, Rosinante reveals that he was planning on doing so anyway before stating that he will give Sengoku the full list of Doflamingo's business associates and underworld contacts sometime soon before hanging up.
As he asks Law if he is ready to set sail, Rosinante sees Law has collapsed and frantically tries to wake him, only to discover that Law's condition has worsened. Claiming that it has not been three years yet and that Law should still have time left according to his calculations, Rosinante wonders what he should do before deciding to give Law some water, only to fumble while handing the cup to Law and almost fall off a cliff in the process. Rosinante tearfully asks Law what he should do before telling him to stay alive for another three weeks in order to give him a chance.
Three days before the trade is scheduled to occur, Rosinante sails through stormy seas with Law while wondering why the waves are so choppy. Speaking up, Law tells Rosinante that the World Government had the citizens of Flevance keep digging up the Amber Lead for the money it brought them despite knowing that they would die and states that the World Government killed his friends and family before asking Rosinante to tell him if he is a Marine soldier allied with them. Rosinante claims that he is not, which makes Law smile, before explaining how they will be making enemies of Doflamingo, the Marines, and the World Government by stealing the Ope Ope no Mi, which means that Law must be prepared to fight in order to live.
Later, while approaching Minion Island, Rosinante asks Sengoku if he has found the pirates, prompting Sengoku to explain how their hideout is located in a ghost town on Minion Island. When Sengoku mentions that Diez Barrels is the captain of the pirates, Rosinante notes that he is a former Marine officer as Sengoku states that their look-out ship is currently staking out the island. Rosinante notes that it is all as Sengoku said as Sengoku reveals there are two warships stationed at Swallow Island. Thinking to himself that no one can see the boat here, Rosinante anchors the boat to a tree and tells Law to wait here because he will not be gone long, but is surprising when he sees Law clinging to his coat. Soon after, Rosinante climbs up a rope to a nearby cliff with Law tied to his back.
In the Barrels Pirates's hideout, Barrels tells his son, X Drake, to bring them more booze before asking his crew members how much they think the Ope Ope no Mi costs with the World Government offering them 5,000,000,000 for it. While his crew members note that there is no reason for them to remain pirates with that much money, Barrels explains how a doctor who eats this fruits would become famous and reveals that there was once such a doctor who performed miraculous operations in order to cure seemingly incurable diseases. As Barrels claims this has nothing to do with them, Law emerges from one of the buildings in the town below to see Rosinante running toward the hideout while properly wearing his coat.
Law thinks back to how Rosinante once showed him some of the capabilities of the Nagi Nagi no Mi. Rosinante showed him Calm, which would cause anything he interacted with to not make any noise, and demonstrated it by breaking a vase, firing a cannon, and farting without making any noise. However, Law did not think this was useful or cool and told Rosinante that even Baby 5's Bukimorphosis was cooler than this, shocking Rosinante, who noted that at least no one else could have a quiet sleep like he could.
Sitting in the snow, Law is surprised to see an explosion occurring at the Barrels Pirates' hideout without any noise. At the hideout, Barrels wonders what just happened as one of his subordinates informs him that the compound just exploded without any noise and another reveals that the treasure house is on fire, prompting Barrels to order them to put out the fire. Having used Calm on himself, Rosinante shoots out the candles illuminating the room with no sound, causing the pirates to realize the lights are gone and that glass is falling on them, As Barrels tries to have someone put on a light, Rosinante kicks him in the side of the head, causing him to drop the Ope Ope no Mi. Rosinante picks up the Ope Ope no Mi and begins to silently run away as the pirates realize someone is here. Smashing through a window, Corazon runs away while tossing a grenade through the window into the hideout, causing another explosion.
As two pirates stationed outside see him running away, Rosinante begins to cry while mentally exclaiming that he got the fruit and Law's disease will be cured, only to slip on the snow and tumble into the midst of another group of pirates. As pursuing pirates inform them that a man in a black coat stole the Ope Ope no Mi, the pirates look at Rosinante and realize it is him before shooting him. Further away, Law recalls Rosinante saying that he could not take him along and telling him to wait here for a while before he returns with the Ope Ope no Mi, which caused Law to smile.

Vice Admiral Tsuru walks down the gangplank of her ship and looks toward Swallow Island, where the Donquixote Pirates and Donquixote Rosinante are set to rendezvous, before telling her subordinates to not let their guard down because they are dealing with Donquixote Doflamingo. As Tsuru wonders where Sengoku got the information to deploy them like this, one of her subordinates informs her that they were contacted by their lookout ship stationed at Minion Island. At the island, one of the Marines from the ship reveals to Tsuru that Diez Barrels's hideout is on fire and that they are currently investigating what happened. However, Tsuru reprimands them for risking getting caught before ordering them to inform her of any suspicious people they find in the coastal area.
Elsewhere, several members of the Barrels Pirates lie defeated around a bloody patch of snow as Rosinante walks away while carrying Trafalgar D. Water Law in his arms.
At the Barrels Pirates' hideout, the remaining pirates try to put out the fire as X Drake crashes through a window before running away. Inside the burning building, one of Barrels's subordinates attempts to help him, but Barrels throws him away and tells the others to not worry about his wounds before ordering them to retrieve the Ope Ope no Mi because a 5,000,000,000 deal is in jeopardy.
At the base of the mountain, Law opens his eyes to see Rosinante kneeling before him. After using Silent, Rosinante shows Law the Ope Ope no Mi as Law notes that he was worried about Rosinante because he saw that the building was on fire and heard some gunshots. However, Rosinante berates him because this is unimportant in comparison to the Ope Ope no Mi allowing Law to save his life. When Law claims that Rosinante does not know if the fruit will cure his disease, Rosinante proclaims that it will before forcing Law to eat it. After swallowing the fruit whole, Law looks at his hands and tells Rosinante that he was not ready for this, only for Rosinante to collapse in front of him. As Rosinante says he is glad Law can heal himself and that they have outsmarted Doflamingo, blood begins to trickle from his head as Law wonders if he is just tired. Upon seeing a pool of blood spreading out from Rosinante, a shocked Law flips him over to see that he has been injured multiple times.
When asked if he was shot, Rosinante admits that he made a small blunder, prompting Law to demand to know what he is doing before attempting to heal him with his newly-acquired powers. However, nothing happens, prompting Rosinante to laugh while noting that Devil Fruit abilities do not work like magic. Assuring Law that he did not get shot because of him, Rosinante claims that these wounds will not kill him and that he will try to staunch the bleeding before reminding Law that getting the Ope Ope no Mi will not stop Doflamingo from running wild. Rosinante apologizes for using Law when he is weakened before asking him to hand a small capsule over to the Marine lookout ship stationed on the island. Explaining how all Marine soldiers will recognize the capsule, Rosinante reveals that its contents will save a far-off kingdom known as Dressrosa. When Law begins to say that he hates the Marines, Rosinante grabs his hand and reminds him that he is the son of a doctor before stating that he will be able to save more than just sick people from now on. After Rosinante tells him that they will leave this island once he delivers this, Law agrees to deliver the capsule, prompting Rosinante to smile before promising that the two of them will travel around the world.
Soon after, Law trudges through the snow before hiding behind a wall upon seeing some Marines walking by. As his legs tremble, Law sees Vergo walking by himself and approaches him before asking him to take the capsule. Upon seeing the capsule, Vergo realizes it must be a secret letter that someone asked Law to deliver before promising to keep it. As Vergo notes that Law sounds very weak, Law asks him if he can be trusted before revealing that he needs him to help someone who has been shot and who should not die at any cost. Soon after, Vergo carries Law to Rosinante, whom Law tells that Vergo will be giving him first aid. However, upon seeing Vergo, Rosinante blurts out his name, prompting Vergo to ask him why he is here before realizing that he just spoke. As Rosinante realizes what Vergo's secret mission must be, Vergo lets Law drop from his back as Law remembers Rosinante telling him about Vergo six months ago.
As Vergo opens the capsule to look at the letter within, Rosinante realizes that his secret mission must have been infiltrating the Marines. Seeing Rosinante crawling toward him, Vergo states that he understands before kicking Rosinante through the wall behind him, prompting a shocked Law to call out to him before leaping onto Vergo and weakly punching him. When Law identifies him as the Vergo that Rosinante was telling him about, Vergo grabs him by the throat and lifts him into the air before deducing that Law is the boy from Flevance and stating that he heard the two of them had gone missing. Reprimanding Law for not referring to him as Vergo-san, Vergo throws him away before ripping up Rosinante's letter while admitting that the Donquixote Pirates would have been doomed if the Marines got their hands on this information. Vergo removes his cloak while asking Rosinante if Law is more important to him than his fellow pirates are before kicking him in the chest.
After removing his shirt and bandanna as well, Vergo coats his entire body in Busoshoku Haki before punching Rosinante in the stomach while noting that Rosinante was already suspicious for disappearing at the age of 8 and coming back to the Donquixote Pirates 14 years later before stating that Doflamingo only trusted him because they were brothers. Vergo continues to brutally beat Rosinante as Law begs him to stop. Hearing this, Vergo stops hitting Rosinante and walks over to Law before punching him as well. Soon after, Law and Rosinante lie badly beaten on the ground as Vergo informs Doflamingo that they are still breathing. When asked what he knows, Vergo reveals that Rosinante was the Marine's spy and had been planning to frame Doflamingo. As some of the Barrels Pirates approach the Donquixote Pirates' ship, Doflamingo explains how he had been watching Swallow Island and saw two warships arrive, which convinced him of Rosinante's betrayal. As the other Donquixote Pirates defeat the Barrels Pirates, Doflamingo claims that his crewmates are the only family he has.
Doflamingo notes that they are too late because he heard Barrels's subordinates saying that the Ope Ope no Mi had been stolen before ordering Vergo to not let Rosinante escape with the fruit, only for Vergo to discover that Rosinante and Law have disappeared. However, Doflamingo states that them running does not matter as long as they are still in the town before creating a Birdcage, which spreads to cover the hideout while shocking the remaining Barrels Pirates. Elsewhere, Law wakes up and asks Rosinante where Vergo is before seeing the Birdcage and wondering what it is. Rosinante admits that he only knows it is one of Doflamingo's techniques before revealing that it means they have nowhere to run.
Several pirates are taken control of with Parasite and begin to attack each other as Rosinante notes this is like hell. When Law asks him what is happening before passing out, Rosinante walks over to him and recalls how their relationship has changed over the past 3 years before admitting that he will not survive this and can only hope Law makes it out alive. Wondering if Law will remember him when he is gone, Rosinante picks him up and uses Silent once more while deciding to go out with a smile so that is what Law remembers about him. As Rosinante tells him that they need to go, Law opens his eyes and screams upon seeing Rosinante's smiling face.

Inside the Birdcage surrounding the ghost town on Minion Island, the Barrels Pirates are running while being attacked by crewmates controlled by Doflamingo's strings. A shocked platoon of Marines stand outside and report what is going on while trying to break through the Birdcage, to no avail. Meanwhile, a boy named Dory has ended up outside the Birdcage, and three of his trapped crewmates beg him to help them. However, Dory runs away. Meanwhile, two pirates are shot dead by the Donquixote Pirates, and Barrels hears it from inside his headquarters. He curses Dory for abandoning them as he prepares for battle at the entrance. Suddenly, Doflamingo cuts apart the door and proceeds to slash Barrels, causing him to collapse. An angry Barrels asks Doflamingo if his crew stole the Ope Ope no Mi, but Doflamingo replies that if they did he would not have to go to this trouble. Doflamingo denounces Barrels for letting the Ope Ope no Mi get stolen as he pulls out his gun and shoots Barrels twice.
Outside, Diamante, Machvise, and Trebol pile up all the treasure they found and admire it. Lao G comes and tells them to stop fooling around and look for Corazon. Meanwhile, Buffalo flies over the cage with Baby 5 on his back. Lao G asks him how his search is going, and Buffalo reports that there are no survivors in sight. Suddenly, Baby 5 intercepts a Marine transmission revealing that the Marines have taken a boy into custody. Lao G shouts at them to start working to find Corazon. Diamante approaches Doflamingo, wondering if Corazon is already dead. As Doflamingo sits on Barrels' body, he holds his pistol in his hand and recalls when he first received it.
Thirty-one years ago, Doflamingo was approached by Trebol and Vergo after he used Haoshoku Haki on some citizens. Later, Doflamingo stood behind his father Homing while carrying a pistol, as Homing restrained a crying Rosinante while Doflamingo asked him why he took their power away. Doflamingo remembered how Trebol gave him the strength to take revenge as he held the pistol at his father's head. Doflamingo told Homing that he would regain his World Noble status by taking Homing's head to Mary Geoise. Homing simply apologized to his sons for having to have a father like him, and Doflamingo struggles for a brief moment before finally pulling the trigger.
Meanwhile, Corazon hides behind a tree as the Donquixote Pirates search for him. He then sneaks up behind Gladius to get his attention, and Gladius shoots at Corazon. Pica goes to Doflamingo to report that they found Corazon. Elsewhere, Law sits inside a treasure chest, remembering how Corazon told him to stay there. Law then hears the Donquixote Pirates heading for Corazon, and he tries to open the chest, to no avail. Corazon taunts Gladius, who has been joined by Diamante and Machvise, and manages to avoid Gladius' shots. Diamante extends his sword to try to injure Corazon, managing to graze his jacket. Corazon runs toward a building when Lao G suddenly comes flying toward him, a punch at the ready. Corazon manages to avoid Lao G's attack, but he runs into Trebol, who launches explosive mucus balls at him to send him flying towards the building. Corazon slams into the wall and stands face to face with his four pursuers. He moves toward them, when he is suddenly grabbed by Pica, who merged into the stone wall.
Pica tightens his grip on Corazon before throwing him towards Diamante, who sends him flying with a bat. Corazon lands on the ground, facing his pursuers, and cracks a smile. However, Gladius kicks Corazon repeatedly, asking him angrily why he pretended to be mute and saying he made a fool of Doflamingo. Law hears the exchange in shock as Lao G warns Gladius not to kill Corazon before Doflamingo arrives. Trebol then grabs Corazon with his mucus and slams him into the treasure chest containing Law as Doflamingo arrives on the scene. As Doflamingo approaches him, Corazon lights a cigarette but starts succumbing to his injuries. Doflamingo reflects how it had been six months since he last saw Corazon with malice in his voice, but Corazon just smiles as Law worriedly hears the exchange.
Doflamingo and Corazon stare at each other as Corazon reaches into his jacket. Machvise and Gladius attempt to intervene, but Doflamingo stops them. Corazon remembers how Sengoku took him in after his father died as he pulls a gun out of his jacket and points it at Doflamingo. Corazon reveals to Doflamingo that he was a Marine Commander on an undercover mission to prevent a tragedy Doflamingo planned. Corazon then quietly apologizes to Law for lying to him, but Law says he knew it all along. Doflamingo becomes angry at Corazon and asks him where Law and the Ope Ope no Mi are. Corazon replies that he had Law eat it and that Law was already out of the cage and probably taken into Marine custody. Corazon's words are confirmed by Buffalo and Baby 5, who report they intercepted a message about a boy being taken in. Doflamingo is angered that they did not tell him sooner, and Corazon is shocked and relieved that that happened despite Law still being on the island. On the Marine ship, the Marines comfort a shivering Dory. Doflamingo then yells to check the ship and says he will undo the Birdcage, shocking Corazon even more about how much this coincidence was working in Law's favor.
Doflamingo prepares to head out and sink the Marine ship, but Corazon tells him not to. However, Doflamingo reveals that since Law ate the Ope Ope no Mi, he needed to teach Law the importance of dying for him. Doflamingo then pulls his pistol out of his jacket and asks Corazon why he is being forced to kill another member of his own family, knowing that Corazon could not shoot him due to being too much like Homing. Inside the chest, Law senses Corazon is in danger and attempts to get out, but remembers how Corazon put him in there, saying someone would take him out of the island. Law feared for Corazon's safety, but Corazon said Doflamingo was after the Ope Ope no Mi and would not harm him. Corazon used Calm to prevent Law from making a sound and then told Law he loved him before leaving. In the present, Corazon says that Law is finally out of Doflamingo's grasp and that he is not the same person as he was three years ago, having been freed from the Amber Lead disease and the stigma of Flevance. Doflamingo then shoots Corazon, and Law recalls his memories of Corazon as the man falls to the ground.
The Donquixote Pirates then prepare to leave the island, carrying Law's chest out with them. However, Corazon is still alive, and clings to life in order to keep Law from making a sound. The Donquixote Pirates are attacked on the coast by Tsuru, and they are forced to abandon the treasure as Law leaves, crying silently. As the Donquixote Pirates set sail and Law gets further from the chest, Corazon dies just as the Marine battleships start firing, drowning out the sound of Law's now audible cries.

In the present as Law clashes with Doflamingo, he recalls Rosinante's declaration of Law's freedom to Doflamingo before the latter murders him. However he laments that will not be truly free until he accomplishes his goal of stopping Doflamingo's madness. Law creates a "Room" around them, and tosses a pebble behind Doflamingo. As he does so, he asks him what he thinks of Monkey D. Luffy, considering Law has now learned today that Doflamingo was a World Noble. He then uses "Shambles" to switch places with the rock, thus teleporting behind Doflamingo. He attempts to stab him through the back, while further inquiring what he thinks of D. Doflamingo however forms Haki over his hand and catches the blade. He states it is of no concern to Law, and pulls him forward to cut him with his strings. He then ridicules the idea that Luffy, as a D, was led there by fate to claim his head as a noble. Though disarmed, Law forms Haki over his hands and forearm to block Doflamingo's attack, while revealing that he too is a D. This infuriates Doflamingo, and the aftermath of his attack slices off the top of the palace.
Meanwhile, Luffy struggles against Doflamingo's Black Knight clone and a controlled Bellamy who continues to use the latter as a shield.
At the former Royal Plateau, King Riku asks Viola about the current status of the battle. Assessing that the longer the battle continues, the more injuries there will be, she indicates that the battle has three settings: the plateau holding the royal palace, the statue of Pica, and the SMILE Factory. Upon hearing this, Usopp asks Viola how many officers still remain. She states that they are disbursed as follows: Senor Pink is guarding the SMILE Factory. Pica is still atop his stone statue. On the top floor of the palace, are Doflamingo and Trebol. At the 4th level of the palace, is Diamante. On the third level, Gladius leads what remains of the soldiers. Finally, on Level 2, there are Lao G, Baby 5, Machvise, and Dellinger, whom we learn is a half fish-man of the fighting fish species.
Viola concludes that the many of the remaining fighters are heavily injured, and that the final moments of the battle are drawing near. At the SMILE Factory, Franky and Senor Pink are still battling intensely. Senor has saved a cat, much to the adoration of their female spectators. Roronoa Zoro is still locked in battle with Pica. At level three of the plateau, Cavendish is fending off Gladius while Robin uses her power to create a staircase out of legs. Cavendish goes on to remark that Gladius' minions' attacks are putting him to sleep. On level four of the plateau, Diamante begins an attack that makes the ground wave like a flag, much to the astonishment of Kyros and Rebecca. Inside the Royal Palace, Leo and Kabu are defeating Donquixote soldiers in the pursuit of saving Princess Mansherry. In front of the Royal Palace, Sabo is helping out some citizens, while Koala is running off to an unknown location. At level two of the palace, the Donquixote Family officers are defeating the Colosseum Army with relative ease. Back at the Former Royal Plateau, Viola has made it clear that if Doflamingo is not defeated, nothing will change. This leads some of the citizens to worry that the fate of their country is being left in the hands of pirates, as Admiral Fujitora watches on.
At the Royal Palace, Doflamingo, now upset at the revelation of Law's real name, is attacking him viciously. He ridicules Law for believing that fate has brought him there as well to defeat him. As he writes off Rosinante's words to Law about the "D" clan as superstition, Trebol warns him that he is now within range of Law's attack. However Doflamingo fails to take heed, and Law stabs him through the midsection with "Injection Shot". Upon this, Law tells Doflamingo that Rosinante knew fully that Law couldn't beat him by virtue of his secret name alone. He furthermore says that "Cora-san" was too kind to pull the trigger on Doflamingo, so he will do it himself.

Law is continuing his fight with Doflamingo, with him using Tact to throw part of the castle to Doflamingo, only to be blocked by Doflamingo's Kumo no Sugaki. Law then tries to launch another Shambles, but this time, Doflamingo grabbed his right hand and commented that he should not launch ineffective attacks at him. He states that if Law wanted him dead, he should have pitted him against Kaido and that there are millions of methods to kill someone stronger than yourself, rather than let his emotions get in the way. Law states that everything he's done and will do has been to avenge Corazon. Doflamingo then cuts off Law's right arm with Itonoko, and says while pulling out his gun that he will forgive Law the same way he forgave his father and brother, by killing them; and that the best method is to use a lead bullet.
Elsewhere in Dressrosa, Zoro continues his battle with Pica, who becomes a stone monster again and causes Zoro to lose his footing and fall back to the lower level before striking with his fist. As Zoro slashes the statue in half, the lower Donquixote members try to shoot at him, but Orlumbus shows up and tricks them into lining up before taking them out using "Admiral Killer Bowling". Zoro thanks Orlumbus, who states his name and leaves Pica to him while he and the others deal with the lower members. Just then, Pica merges with the plateau. When Pica laughs, a shocked Zoro comments on how stupid it is, causing Pica to use "Charlestone", attacking Zoro and his own men in the process while Zoro dodges.
Back at the palace, Luffy has finally defeated Doflamingo's clone and demands the real Doflamingo show himself, just narrowly saving Law from death.

Still fighting Bellamy, Luffy demands Doflamingo to release Bellamy. Doflamingo was surprised that Bellamy was not finished off yet and releases him from his control.
Bellamy starts to reminisce about his past, including asking to join Doflamingo thinking that Doflamingo is pride of the North Blue and that he is not a pirate who day dreams. Then he thinks of fighting Luffy in Mock Town, and meeting him again in the Colosseum. Luffy promises to beat up Doflamingo and Trebol for him, but Bellamy stops him. Bellamy uses his Spring Hopper move and darts around the room. Bellamy states that it is not only Luffy who has become stronger, but his Spring Hopper has become so as well.
Meanwhile, Zoro continues his fight with Pica who continues to attack indiscriminately. Dellinger complains to Pica for almost hitting him as well, allowing Ideo to hit him while proclaiming that he shouldn't take his eye off his opponent. Meanwhile, Sai and Baby 5 trade words as Baby 5 has misinterpreted all of Sai's actions and words as romantic gestures, greatly confusing Sai.
Elsewhere, Machvise has finished his fight with Hajrudin and now sets his sights on Zoro. While Hajrudin lays defeated, he laments how he cannot repay his debts despite wanting to be the king of all giants, losing the tournament, being turned into a toy and later being saved. Admits his shame, Hajrudin wonders if this is all he's able to do to help his saviors. When Machvise uses his 1000 Ton Vice against Zoro, Hajrudin gets up and tells Zoro he will handle him. Surprised at Hajrudin being alive, Machvise decides to use his 10,000 Ton Hell Vise on him while shouting that Hajrudin still must have some bones to break on him. Noting that the dead are of no use to anyone and that he can defeat Machvise even if he only has one arm left, Hajrudin uses "Gungnir" against the officer. The bones in Hajrudin's right arm and leg begin to break under the weight as he tells Machvise to fly to the heavens. As the ground beneath them begins to crater, Machvise mocks Hajrudin and states he weighs 10,000 tons. However, through sheer willpower, Hajrudin shocks everyone and sends Machvise flying while breaking his shield in half. As the lower members express shock at seeing Machvise defeated, the punch sends him straight into the Birdcage, slicing him and leaving him incapacitated. Exhausted, Hajrudin notes Machvise is not flying anywhere soon since he's not a bird and falls over unconscious from his wounds while crushing the lower soldiers that were after Zoro. Zoro commends the giant before promising him that the cage will be gone when he wakes up.

As Bellamy continues to bounce around the room with Spring Hopper, Monkey D. Luffy begs him to stop before he dies from putting too much stress on his body, but Bellamy berates him for worrying about his enemy before hurtling toward him.
On the plateau, several enormous stone spikes emerge from the cliffside as Pica uses Charlestone. Cutting through several of them as he runs along, Zoro leaps into the air to face Pica's stone face as dozens of Donquixote Pirates underlings are tossed into the air by the technique. As Zoro realizes that he does not care whether he hits allies or enemies, Pica laughs at him, prompting Zoro to tell him to bring it on.
Elsewhere, Sai and Baby 5 leap down to a lower part of the battlefield as Baby 5, having been told by Sai to follow him, realizes that she is needed. When Sai tells her that he will not let her go until this is settled, Baby 5 interprets his words as a marriage proposal, to his shock. Nearby, Chinjao attacks Lao G, who effortlessly dodges his attacks before counterattacking with a flurry of blows. Blocking every strike as well, Chinjao hardens his fist with Busoshoku Haki before punching Lao G, who blocks and remains in place in midair despite the force of the blow destroying a stone wall behind him. Lao G sends Chinjao flying with a kick before landing on one leg, which seemingly injures his back, to the surprise of those watching; however, Lao G adjusts his body to fit the Yotsu no Kamae stance, which the subordinates nearby identify. As Chinjao gets up and curses him, Lao G rushes toward him before using Me no Tsukare, which culminates in him unleashing a flurry of blows aimed at Chinjao's face that knock him back. After using Kata Kori to injure Chinjao's shoulder, Lao G strikes Chinjao in the stomach with Hie Sho and kicks his lower back with Gikkuri Goshi before striking all of his joints with Fushi Bushi no Itami, causing Chinjao to collapse as Lao G lands behind him.
As the observing pirates note that he is overpowering a pirate worth over 500,000,000, Lao G proclaims that this fighting style, Jio-Ken, is the result of him growing older and better understanding pain. However, as one of the pirates points out that Lao G is facing the wrong way because his opponent his behind him, Chinjao gets up and stares at Lao G before proclaiming that he will not support a marriage between Sai and Baby 5, shocking the observing pirates. When Sai angrily claims that he said he would not marry Baby 5, who is shocked, Chinjao reminds Sai that he is scheduled to marry the daughter of the Niho Navy's leader, prompting Sai to state that he does not care who he is married to and that Chinjao can do as he pleases. The observing pirates realize Lao G is being ignored and believe he will grow angry, but Lao G indicates that he did not hear what Chinjao and Sai said, to their shock. However, the pirates see what appears to be steam coming from Lao G's head and believe that he is getting mad, only to realize it is his spirit and that he is dying.
Lao G's spirit begins to ascend to heaven as the pirates claim that a battle should not end with a natural death like this. Seeing this, Baby 5 begs Lao G to come back, prompting his spirit to return to his body so he can ask Baby 5 what she said. Straightening up, Lao G mocks Chinjao by asking him if he got weaker, which seems to anger Chinjao, only for the latter to demand to know what Sai is doing. As Sai wonders what Chinjao means, Baby 5 adjusts his crooked collar for him, prompting a surprised Sai to demand to know if she is his wife before leaping back and telling her to stay away. When Sai asks her why she brought up marriage despite being his enemy, Baby 5 claims that he needs her before stating that she will do anything. Hearing this, Sai mockingly tells her to kill herself for him, shocking Baby 5.
Sai explains that they need to take care of the high-ranking Donquixote Pirates in order to repay their debt to Luffy, only to be surprised when Baby 5 actually turns her arm into a gun and places it against her head while stating she is happy to kill herself in order to help him. As Baby 5 says that she loves helping people more than anything else, Sai demands to know what she is doing and claims that he will feel bad if he wins through her killing herself. Chinjao demands to know why he is trying to prevent an enemy from ending their own life and claims he should be more ruthless as the leader of an army, but Sai angrily tells him to back off because Chinjao is no longer his master. Baby 5 closes her eyes as Sai runs toward her and thinks about how happy she is that she can be useful simply by killing herself.
In the past, a tribe in a desert area learns that one of their women gave birth to a child and orders the mother to abandon her on a mountain because she will simply consume their food without contributing anything. Soon after, the mother led the young Baby 5 to a secluded jungle area while her child asked her where they were going. Upon being shoved to the ground, Baby 5 ran after her mother and tearfully begged her to wait, only for the mother to tell her to not follow because she was useless to everyone. As the mother walked away, Baby 5 knelt on the ground while wondering if she was even useless to her mother before crying out in sadness. Later, as a young woman, Baby 5 subscribed to 50 newspapers after being asked to by several men because she was needed by them, and soon after accepted a marriage proposal from a homeless man because she believed she was needed by him.
In the present, Baby 5 notes that she is needed by someone now as Sai tells her to stop. However, an angered Chinjao claims Sai is foolish while leaping toward him and cutting off his advance toward Baby 5 before slicing through one of the stone spikes produced by Pica's Charlestone, which lands on the ground as Chinjao stands on its point. As Chinjao claims that they do not need disgraceful men like Sai in the Happo Navy, Sai continues to run toward Baby 5 and tells Chinjao to stay out of his problem, prompting Chinjao to coat his head in Busoshoku Haki, which the observing pirates realize means he is preparing to use his ice continent-splitting technique. Proclaiming that he is going to smash both of them with his drill head, Chinjao leaps into the air before falling toward Sai and Baby 5 while using Hasshoken Ogi: Kiryu Kirikugi, only for Sai to respond by hitting Chinjao's head with Bujaogen, causing electricity to crackle around the two of them. As the top of the stone spike nearby is cut off by the force of the clash, Chinjao's drill-shaped head is bent 90 degrees at the middle.
Running toward Baby 5, Sai slaps her before berating her for trying to do something so foolish, surprising Baby 5. As Chinjao lies on the ground a few feet away, the stone spike that the three are on top of crumbles, causing them to fall to the ground below. Feeling the bruise on her face, Baby 5 asks Sai why he stopped her from trying to help him, prompting Sai to ask her if she has been living in a world where no one has told her how she is misunderstanding others. Meanwhile, Chinjao regains consciousness and feels his bent head as Sai expresses disbelief at having done this. Admitting that he is surprised at Sai having bent his head, Chinjao becomes teary-eyed while noting that this means Sai's power has revealed itself at last. Chinjao gets to his feet while telling a surprised Sai that his intense training has come to fruition and that the Hasshoken technique has been successfully passed on before proclaiming that Sai's kick will gain the name Hasshoken Ogi: Kiryu Kirikugi as well. As Sai notices his left foot being engulfed in a blue flame, Chinjao tells him that his kick should now be able to break open the ice continent as well and that the Happo Navy is his to command before revealing that he will cancel Sai's arranged marriage and leave him to do whatever he wishes.
Chinjao tearfully congratulates Sai before embracing him as Sai claims Chinjao is embarrassing him. Revealing that he has been experiencing chronic pain since his fight with Luffy and thus could not fight as well as he wished to, Chinjao admits that he is getting older before being interrupted by a much more muscular Lao G, who attacks him with G no Kokuin, sending Chinjao crashing into a wall far away. As Sai calls out to Chinjao, who falls to the ground, Lao reveals that this is the ultimate technique of Jio-Ken, Jioken Kyukyoku no Higi: Sento Ho-Ken, that allows the practitioner to draw on the power of their youth and use it in combination with their seasoned fighting skills. Lao G declares that no one can beat him now as Sai angrily states that he will not forgive him for attacking Chinjao.
As Lao G claims that Sai needs another hundred years of combat experience before being strong to challenge him, Sai proclaims that he will do this to avenge Chinjao and repay his debt to Luffy. When asked if he really believes if Luffy can defeat Donquixote Doflamingo, Sai confirms this before rushing toward Chinjao, who throws a punch at him. Leaping into the air as the punch creates a crater in a chunk of rubble further away, Sai slashes at Lao G with his polearm, only for Lao G to block it with one finger before claiming that everyone in Dressrosa is a slave to Doflamingo. Lao G grabs Sai's polearm by the handle before throwing Sai away, prompting Sai to slow himself down by dragging his blade along the ground before rushing toward Lao G again. Lao G dodges another slash and blocks Sai's kick before claiming that Sai and the other rebels will not be able to leave the Birdcage for the rest of their lives.
Sai dodges a flurry of punches before leaping back when Lao G crashes into the area where he is standing. When Lao G punches the piece of rubble he is standing on, Sai jumps to his head, prompting Lao G to acknowledge his speed before proclaiming that he will not let him have Baby 5 as Sai evades his fist once more and leaps away. With Baby 5 admiring him, Lao G states that he will save her from Sai before rushing toward him once more. As Baby 5 wonders what she should do with the two of them fighting over her, Sai shoves her away to protect her from the fight before continuing to battle with Lao G as Baby 5 watches happily. Noting that Sai could have gained the upper hand if he had taken Baby 5 as a shield, Lao G manages to punch Sai in the face, sending him crashing through a piece of rubble before slamming into a wall. Pointing out how Baby 5 will even kill herself if someone asks her to, Lao G claims that no one else is as convenient as she is.
As Baby 5 tears up at the thought of being convenient, Sai gets to his feet as Lao G proclaims he will finish him with the last secret technique. Sai assumes a battle stance as Lao G yells, causing the ground around him to rupture and crater, before declaring this is Sento Ho-Ken: Manki Kaiyaku. As Lao G rushes toward him, Sai declares that he will take Baby 5 as his wife if he wins, prompting Baby 5 to fall in love with him, before kicking Lao G's hands down to nullify his technique. Leaping into the air, Sai attacks Lao G with Hasshoken Ogi: Kiryu Kirikugi, the force of which tears open an enormous fissure in the ground below and behind Lao G, who falls into it while apologizing to Doflamingo and cursing Sai. As Sai tells Lao G to call him Don, Baby 5 sidles up to him and asks that he be patient with her.

As some of the Donquixote Pirates' underlings exclaim that Lao G has been defeated, Roronoa Zoro looks over the enormous rift in the ground created by Sai's Kiryu Kirikugi and notes how destructive it was before deciding to keep Sai and his fleet in mind due to how powerful they are. Meanwhile, Sai runs up to the battered Chinjao and begs him to not die as Baby 5 states that she will make preparations for two ceremonies, a wedding and a funeral, which prompts both Sai and Chinjao to angrily proclaim that the latter is not dead yet.
Above them, Zoro dodges another one of Pica's stone spikes as Pica laughs at him. When an irritated Zoro tells him to stop laughing because it is annoying, Pica becomes angered and demands to know what is wrong with laughing while having fun before using Charlestone once more, which sends several of his subordinates flying. Managing to dodge the spikes, Zoro runs along one of them while demanding to know who Pica is targeting before leaping forward and cutting Pica's stone face to pieces, only for Pica to escape seconds before the stone is cut. After cutting another spike in half, Zoro states that he detests how Pica keeps doing the same thing over and over again before noticing Elizabello II standing next to him. Offering to assist Zoro, Elizabello states that Riku Doldo III is an old friend of his before asking Zoro if he has figured out Pica's ability yet and explaining how he can only use his King Punch once per hour. When Zoro confirms that he has, Elizabello proclaims that he will take Pica down, but Zoro states that he will be the one to do so before telling Elizabello to save his King Punch because they do not know what is to come. Another stone spike juts out from the mountainside, forcing Zoro and Elizabello to separate as the latter agrees to save his King Punch. As Pica forms another stone face, Zoro wonders what he is up to.
Meanwhile, on Flower Hill, the ground flaps up and down like a flag, causing Kyros to lose his balance and be forced to lean on his sword for support as Diamante tells him to grovel in the dirt. Realizing that it is all connected, Diamante states that the toy soldier who was crying and screaming when he killed Scarlet was actually Kyros. When Diamante notes that there is nothing but hatred between them, Kyros agrees and leaps into the air before proclaiming that this is why he came here as he attacks Diamante, who blocks Kyros's sword with his steel cape before attacking Rebecca with Vipera Glaive. However, Kyros manages to reach Rebecca in time and blocks the attack, prompting Diamante to run toward him and seemingly attack him with Vipera Glaive, only to redirect the attack toward Rebecca at the last second. After Kyros blocks this attack as well, Rebecca realizes that Diamante is targeting her and tells Kyros she will fight as well, prompting Diamante to proclaim he will kill her as well before attacking her once more. As Kyros protects Rebecca again, Diamante states that he wants to see him lose both his wife and daughter as Kyros tells Rebecca he will fight because he wants to avenge Scarlett and compensate for teaching her how to fight before proclaiming that he will no longer let his daughter swing his sword now that he is human once more.
Elsewhere in Dressrosa, a mother and her daughter sit in a burning building as parts of the flaming ceiling fall down around them. However, they are saved by the arrival of Sabo, who extinguishes the flames before telling them that they are going to be fine. After getting the mother and daughter outside, Sabo offers them cups of water before hearing a soldier shouting that his friends are stuck in a cage at the Corrida Colosseum. When Sabo tells him to take him there, the soldier agrees and runs off, leaving Sabo to look up at the palace where Monkey D. Luffy is fighting before running after him.
In the palace, Bellamy bounces around the room with his Spring Hopper technique and proclaims that he and his technique have grown stronger just like Luffy has. As some of Bellamy's blood splashes on his face, Luffy tells him to stop before he dies, but Bellamy reprimands him for worrying about his enemy before admitting that he is aware of how he looked up to the wrong man and how foolish he is. Recalling how Luffy tried to get Donquixote Doflamingo to let him go, Bellamy declares that it would be disgraceful for him to turn his back on the man he admired simply because he did not get the response he desired. Proclaiming that even fools like him have principles to stick to, Bellamy tells Luffy that this will be his last fight and that Luffy must join him. When Luffy tells him to stop and claims that he has no reason to accept such a fight, Bellamy recalls their first meeting in Mock Town and how Luffy was the same way back then before telling Luffy to stand right there if he believes Bellamy's determination is cheap. Leaping off a wall toward Luffy, Bellamy hardens his right arm with Busoshoku Haki before driving it into Luffy's Busoshoku Haki-hardened abdomen.
Above them, Doflamingo and Trebol walk toward Trafalgar D. Water Law, who is limping away while clutching the stump where his right arm used to be. Kneeling down, Law picks up Kikoku before realizing Doflamingo is standing next to him as Doflamingo kicks him away. Walking over to Law, Doflamingo stomps on his wrist and asks him how long he will keep up his game of revenge as Trebol calls him pathetic. Doflamingo wonders if Law wishes to lose another arm and decides to torment him instead of killing him right away before punching and kicking Law several times in succession. When Doflamingo kicks Law away, Trebol grabs him with a thread of mucus before slamming him into the ground. Getting to his feet, Law claims that he has been willing to give up his arms from the start before running toward Doflamingo and Trebol, who states that Law must be really stupid. Law slashes at Doflamingo, who leaps into the air before cutting Law's chest with Goshikito. However, when Doflamingo lands, Law stomps on his foot and creates a ROOM before hitting Doflamingo with Counter Shock, which creates an explosion. As the smoke clears, a panting Doflamingo grabs Law and thanks him for the attack before throwing him away and piercing his body with Fullbright, which causes Law to cough up blood. As Law falls to the ground, Doflamingo looks at his jacket and promises to send him to meet Corazon.
Meanwhile, Luffy is sent crashing into a wall by Bellamy's attack and falls to his knees before telling Bellamy to stop once more. As Doflamingo reaches for his pistol upon realizing Luffy has not come up yet, Bellamy punches Luffy into the ground once more while Law grins at Doflamingo, only to be hoisted by the hood of his jacket by Trebol, who asks him how he can be so relaxed in this situation. When Luffy tells him to stop once more, Bellamy points out how he has been fired from the Donquixote Pirates, and when Luffy says this is good because Doflamingo betrayed him, Bellamy asks him if this means he should side with Luffy. After reiterating that he cannot abandon his principles like this, Bellamy crashes into Luffy once more as Trebol hits Law with Beta Launcher, causing several explosions. As flames engulf the surrounding area, Doflamingo and Trebol stand over Law, whom Trebol tells to give up as Doflamingo says he should rest.
Elsewhere, on the third level of the plateau, Gladius kneels and touches the ground as Cavendish cuts down one of his subordinates before telling him to stand up. When Cavendish claims he is very close to victory, Gladius tells him to not push his luck as the ground begins swelling up around him in domes. Realizing that Gladius has been setting these up, Cavendish runs over to Bartolomeo, who is standing behind a barrier, and tells him to let him inside, but Bartolomeo refuses because it will put himself and Nico Robin in danger. As Gladius tells his subordinates they will be fine because they are elites, Cavendish angrily demands that Bartolomeo open the barrier as Gladius uses Punc Rock Fest, causing the domes to explode while Gladius bids Cavendish farewell.

As Punc Rock Fest blows away Gladius' subordinates, Bartolomeo watches from within his barrier before noting that Cavendish would have been killed instantly by the attack were he outside. However, Cavendish kicks him away and demands to know why Bartolomeo did not let him inside from the beginning, prompting Bartolomeo to angrily ask him if this is how he thanks someone who saved him. Bartolomeo and Cavendish butt heads as Cavendish reminds Bartolomeo that he was covering him before this. Eventually, Cavendish claims that he needs to keep fighting, shocking Bartolomeo, who tells him to stay within his barrier for a while after having demanded to get in. After telling Bartolomeo that offense must come after defense, Cavendish exits the barrier as Bartolomeo promises to not let him inside next time. Cavendish tells Bartolomeo to let him in when he is in danger again, but Bartolomeo merely makes faces at him, prompting Cavendish to run off into the smoke while promising to teach him a lesson.
Demanding to know why he should put up a barrier for a jerk like Cavendish, Bartolomeo remembers that Nico Robin is trying to ascend the cliff behind him, only to turn around and see that she is doing so by creating steps with legs sprouting from the walls. As Bartolomeo expresses happiness at her being fine, Gladius sees Robin and vows to not let anyone else get in the way of the executives before firing at her with Catapult Punc. However, Bartolomeo blocks the bullets with Barrierbility: Racket and promises to not let Gladius get in Robin's way, prompting an irritated Gladius to note that he is still alive. When Robin winks at him in gratitude, a shocked Bartolomeo wonders if this means he can be her slave before telling himself that he is asking for too much as his barrier changes shape to a humanoid figure flexing in different poses.
Suddenly, Cavendish runs out of the smoke toward Gladius, who realizes he was protected by Bartolomeo's barrier as well. As Cavendish prepares to use Biken: Blue Bird and Gladius inflates his wrists in preparation for Bracchium, they are surprised and interrupted by Bartolomeo charging toward them with Barrier Bulls, which sends several of Gladius's subordinates flying. Bartolomeo proclaims that Robin's gesture is something worth risking his life for as both Gladius and Cavendish run away from him, with Cavendish demanding to know if Bartolomeo knows he is here. However, Bartolomeo claims that he cannot stop because he is losing control from feeling too high as Gladius notices Dellinger standing atop a fallen spike nearby. When asked if he has cleaned up the second level yet, Dellinger claims that it will be done soon, but Gladius orders him to help on the third level because of Robin trying to make her way up.
As Dellinger agrees and states it sounds like fun, Ideo extends his arm and grabs Dellinger's wrist before stepping out of the smoke. When Ideo reiterates that he should pay attention, Dellinger complains about how persistent he is as Ideo retracts his arm and regains his oddly-shaped shoulder. Noting that Ideo has something past his shoulder, Dellinger points out the hole in his stomach and tells him to drop dead already, but Ideo claims that he cannot do so because one must have obligation and honor in a man's world. However, Dellinger merely laughs and claims this does not sound like him before kicking Ideo away. After being kicked once more in midair, Ideo regains his footing on the ground and attempts to punch Dellinger, who dodges before kicking him twice more. Unleashing a barrage of kicks on Ideo, who coughs up blood, Dellinger wonders what happened to him while laughing, only to be shocked when Ideo throws a punch that takes off part of his hat. Kicking Ideo back, Dellinger claims that he would have spared him had Ideo merely played dead before kicking him several more times while demanding to know what good standing on his feet does. Noting that he can buy some time until Monkey D. Luffy defeats Donquixote Doflamingo, Ideo proclaims that he and the others will prevent the Donquixote Pirates from getting in Luffy's way, prompting Dellinger to stop kicking him as Ideo claims no victory in this world can be obtained alone.
Ripping off his hat, Dellinger notes that Luffy's allies are trying to obtain victory by sacrificing their lives and laughs before claiming that this is something losers would do as his eyes dilate and begin to glow red. After sprouting a set of fangs in place of his teeth, Dellinger chomps Ideo's neck, causing him to collapse and pass out in pain, before kicking his body away while telling him to not underestimate his Fighting Fish lineage. Soon afterward, Dellinger leaps up to the second level and looks around before calling out to Gladius. Hearing screams, Dellinger walks over to another area as several underlings are cut down at high speeds. When a nervous Gladius tells him to stay on the third level because they are facing a troublesome opponent, Dellinger claims that no one can face them when they are working together before being slashed by Hakuba.
As Gladius calls out to him, a trembling Dellinger looks at the blood on his hand and incredulously wonders what is going on before asking Hakuba who he is. However, Hakuba responds by slashing Dellinger several dozen more times, causing him to collapse. Looking on from within a circular barrier, a shocked Bartolomeo notes how Hakuba cut down Dellinger and the enemy soldiers so quickly before realizing there is a frightening on the other side of his barrier when he gets a clear look at Hakuba's face. Wondering who Hakuba is, Bartolomeo realizes that this is similar to what happened during the Block D match at the Corrida Colosseum before wondering if Hakuba caused that as well. As Bartolomeo ponders what "dish" Hakuba is if he is wearing Canvendish's clothes with a completely different face, Hakuba moves to him and slashes at his barrier, causing Bartolomeo to fall back in shock while admitting that he was caught off-guard by how fast Hakuba moved. When Bartolomeo asks him if he is Cavendish, Hakuba does not say anything before attacking the barrier several more times, only for nothing to happen. Seeing this, Bartolomeo laughs before claiming that Hakuba cannot cut his barrier with his sword.
Bartolomeo claims that Hakuba's speed is useless against his ability and states that no one can break his barrier when he has his fingers crossed. However, Hakuba sees a hole at the top of the barrier and moves to it, forcing Bartolomeo to close it off by twisting it as Hakuba slashes at it. After Hakuba lands on the ground again, Bartolomeo sighs in relief before demanding to know what he is thinking. As Bartolomeo wonders what happened to him, Hakuba sees Robin running up the cliffside as a shocked Bartolomeo tells him to not do anything stupid. Seeing Hakuba preparing to attack, Bartolomeo removes his barrier and tries to grab him, only for Hakuba to disappear and begin moving toward Robin as Bartolomeo begs him to not go after her. However, when Robin sees Hakuba running up the cliffside toward her, she grabs and restricts him with several arms sprouted from his body. As Bartolomeo tearfully proclaims that he is glad she is safe, Robin states that Hakuba's speed means nothing to her before asking him if he wants something from her.

As she restrains Hakuba with multiple arms, Nico Robin informs him that she needs to get up to Rebecca quickly because she is worried about her. Looking on in shock, Bartolomeo exclaims that she stopped Hakuba before claiming that it was presumptuous of him to think that he needed to protect her. Robin notes that it does not seem like Hakuba will remain silent, only to be surprised when Cavendish's normal face briefly appears and tells Hakuba to wait. After seemingly falling unconscious, Cavendish looks up with his normal face before proclaiming that he did not permit Hakuba to appear. When Cavendish apologizes for almost cutting her, Robin notes that this was the Hakuba everyone had been speaking of. Confirming this, Cavendish states that he is dangerous and cuts people up at random before dozing off, causing Hakuba to reappear and threaten to cut up Robin's entire body.
Hakuba promises to cut up everything, only for Cavendish to briefly appear while claiming that he will not allow Hakuba to take control. As Hakuba tells him to stay asleep, Cavendish claims that he does not know the meaning of this fight and that there is no meaning to cutting up everything if he does not do it, only for Hakuba to proclaim that he will show his enemies a pool of blood. Looking on, a stunned Bartolomeo wonders if he has two personalities as Cavendish and Hakuba continue to argue, eventually culminating in the two of them gaining control of half of Cavendish's face as Bartolomeo exclaims that they are half and half. After fully gaining control once more, Cavendish proclaims that he is the only Cavendish, only for Bartolomeo to point out how he was half-and-half only a minute ago.
When Cavendish claims that it is alright now and asks her to release him, Robin demands to know if he is telling her to trust him after what she just saw. However, she is caught off-guard when the cliffside behind her begins expanding as Gladius decides to settle this before proclaiming that he will blow Robin up along with the wall. As Gladius states Robin cannot get away just by flying somewhere, Bartolomeo curses him while Cavendish notes Gladius will rupture them as well before telling Robin that they need to get down for now. Robin states that she cannot do so because Rebecca might get hurt during that time, but Bartolomeo tells her to leave Gladius to him, prompting Gladius to note that he has good judgment for realizing the wall will not rupture if Bartolomeo takes him down before using Punc Hair to injure Bartolomeo's leg. After claiming that this is nothing, Bartolomeo falls to his knees while noting that his leg went numb, prompting Gladius to reveal that his hair is comprised of poison needles. As Cavendish and Robin call out to Bartolomeo, Gladius's body begins to swell up as he notes that he is a Rupture Human from head to toe before informing Bartolomeo that he will explode and unleash tens of thousands of poison needles upon Cavendish and Robin if attacked.
Asking Bartolomeo what he will do, Gladius notes that Bartolomeo will not survive the explosion of his body as Bartolomeo realizes Robin will be injured either way. As Gladius commends him for being a quick learner, Bartolomeo tells himself that his priority is protecting Robin's body and that he needs to take down Gladius in order to do so before noting that thousands of poison needles will hit Robin if he does so. Meanwhile, Cavendish tells Robin to let go of him and run before falling asleep once more as Bartolomeo realizes there is someone expendable near Robin. When Bartolomeo tells Cavendish to protect Robin with his body while he deals with Gladius, Hakuba tells him to shut up, prompting Bartolomeo to exclaim that Cavendish is useless even in this critical situation. Wondering what he should do, Bartolomeo realizes what he can do and gets to his feet before charging at Gladius, who wonders if he is attacking. Bartolomeo notes that his restriction of only being able to put up one barrier at a time does not matter and proclaims that he will not hesitate if it is for the sake of protecting Robin before using Barrier Ball to create a spherical barrier around a surprised Gladius.
As he pulls out a knife, Bartolomeo tells Gladius to blow up as much as he likes because they are inside his unbreakable barrier before stabbing him. Gladius calls Bartolomeo a fool for being willing to sacrifice himself before blowing himself up with Fashion Punc, causing Bartolomeo to be sliced and stabbed by dozens of poison needles. As Robin calls out to him, Bartolomeo notes that this will stop the rupture of the wall before falling on the ground. However, to Bartolomeo's shock, Gladius appears before him and points out that Bartolomeo stabbed his shoulder instead of his throat before reminding Bartolomeo that the rupturing of the wall will not stop as long as he remains conscious. Meanwhile, Cavendish apologizes to Robin before revealing that he brought Hakuba under control and left half of his body under his control as Hakuba promises to kill her. Promising that he will use Hakuba's speed to get Robin to the Flower Hill, Cavendish claims that they do not have any other options and asks her to let go of him.
While Robin wonders which side of Cavendish this is, Gladius declares that this is over before using Punc Rock Super Arena to blow up the wall. As rubble bounces off the barrier around him, Gladius notes that he likes it while a tearful Bartolomeo screams over his seeming failure, only to be shocked alongside Gladius upon seeing Cavendish carrying Robin to the top of the cliff with Hakuba's speed. When Hakuba asks him why he stopped his sword with his own hand, Cavendish tells him to listen every now and again before falling asleep once more. After using Cien Fleur: Spider Net to catch herself and Cavendish, Robin notes that Cavendish stopped Hakuba's blade for her before calling him a complicated man. Meanwhile, an incredulous Gladius wonders how they could have escaped the explosion before clutching his shoulder as Bartolomeo, happy that Robin is safe, releases the barrier.
As Gladius falls to his knees, Bartolomeo angrily wonders what he is doing if he could not save the one he was trying to protect before recalling the first time he saw Monkey D. Luffy in Loguetown. Getting to his feet, Bartolomeo recalls tracking Luffy's rise in infamy, trying to replicate his moves, and witnessing Luffy's actions in the tournament before proclaiming that he should be ashamed of himself in comparison. Deciding that he will one day become a man whom Luffy can rely on for help, Bartolomeo leaps toward Gladius before hitting Gladius with Homage: God's Fist: Bari Bari no Pistol, defeating him. Bartolomeo collapses and notes that he barely won with Luffy's power before proclaiming that he will never work with a troublesome guy like Cavendish again.
Meanwhile, on Flower Hill, Diamante notes that it is very noisy down there and claims that even a Corrida Colosseum gladiator would lose his footing on unstable terrain like the ground he is making flutter. When Diamante attacks Rebecca with Vipera Glaive, Kyros tells her to run because she cannot defend herself from it, only for Robin to appear and divert the attack with Kochoran before telling Rebecca that she will protect her from now on.

On Flower Hill, Nico Robin deactivates her Kochoran as an irritated Diamante curses her. When Robin asks him if he does not think Rebecca and Kyros are disadvantaged, Diamante points out that this is not some sort of competition and that he is here to execute them. However, Robin claims that he has this backwards before telling Kyros that he does not need to hold back any longer because she will protect Rebecca. Thanking her, Kyros states that he could not contain his rage for much longer.
Meanwhile, on the third level, Bartolomeo notices two Donquixote Pirates underlings carrying Gladius away on a stretcher and demands to know what they are doing, prompting them to beg him for forgiveness while explaining that they are carrying away the corpse of a defeated man. When Bartolomeo points out how Gladius is not dead yet, the underlings proclaim that they want to treat him even if it takes a few days for him to regain consciousness. As the underlings beg him to show mercy, Bartolomeo angrily tells them to get going already, prompting them to run away with Gladius while noting that Bartolomeo will pay for pushing his luck like this.
On the first floor of the royal palace, two more underlings carry Dellinger to a large door, only to trip and send his unconscious body sprawling on the ground as three more underlings berate them. However, they are interrupted by Giolla, who demands to know how they could treat a member of the Donquixote Family like this. Apologizing profusely, the two underlings accidentally throw Dellinger behind them onto the floor, prompting Giolla to refuse to forgive them before turning them into art, which she calls "Penance". After ordering the other underlings to put Penance somewhere in the palace where others can see it, Giolla expresses disbelief at how the executives are being defeated one after another before being informed by another underling that Gladius will be carried in soon. Surprised by this news, Giolla notes that she must get things started as soon as possible before ordering the underling to bring "it" to her as someone cries in a cell.
Elsewhere, Viola, having seen all of this, wonders what Giolla plans to do before noticing that the Den Den Mushi in her hand is ringing and realizing that it is coming from the SMILE Factory. At the factory, Senor Pink spins around while upside down in the concrete as Kyuin and three other girls look on with admiration. When Franky throws a punch at him, Senor Pink traps his arm with his legs before flipping him on his back as the dwarves contact Viola with a Den Den Mushi. Wicca informs Viola that they are the team at the factory as Inhel asks her what is happening with Mansherry and Leo's group. As a tearful Maujii hopes that Mansherry is not having a hard time, Viola reveals that things just became worse, prompting Wicca to ask if something happened to Mansherry. Telling the group that she will call Leo now, Viola contacts Leo, who informs her that he and Kabu are approaching the Rampart Tower as they speak. As Kabu states that they will reach the chapel soon, Viola informs them that they need to move quickly because Giolla is forcing Mansherry to use her ability. Leo is shocked by this as Wicca tells him to hurry up.
At the Rampart Tower, several underlings see Leo and Kabu approaching and begin firing at them, though Leo and Kabu easily dodge the bullets. Seeing this, one of the underlings decides to blow them and the staircase up with a bomb, but Leo and Kabu kick him and his ally into the ground before dispatching the rest of their attackers. Promising to get there as fast as they can, Leo asks Mansherry to hold on for a bit longer. Meanwhile, Giolla tells Mansherry to do as she says already, only for Mansherry to claim that she cannot do it anymore before asking Giolla to let her go back to Green Bit. However, Giolla demands to know whom Mansherry called Boa Hancock, prompting Mansherry to point out that she did not say anything like this. Giolla tells Mansherry that it is time to use her ability and points out the defeated Lao G, Dellinger, Sugar, and Machvise behind her before noting that those who defeated them are also badly injured. Proclaiming that Mansherry reviving the fallen executives with her Chiyu Chiyu no Mi powers means certain death for their enemies, Giolla notes that there will be a drastic shift in the tides of battle before ordering Mansherry to revive the executives with the watering can filled with healing water that she used to heal Sugar.
As Giolla pokes her face and the underlings behind her laugh, Mansherry reveals that she knows of how the Donquixote Pirates are enemies of Riku Doldo III and how Donquixote Doflamingo has been lying to the Tontatta Tribe. When Giolla demands to know why this is important, Mansherry declares that she does not want to heal bad people anymore, which makes Giolla tear up at how cute she finds Mansherry to be. However, when the underlings declare that Mansherry is cute as well, Giolla berates them for being fooled and shoves them aside before demanding to know whom Mansherry called a once-in-a-millennium beauty. Giolla advances toward Mansherry, who denies saying anything like this while mentally begging Leo to help her. Picking up Mansherry, Giolla asks her if she cares whether or not her friends at the SMILE factory remain safe, only for Mansherry to point out that the executives will hurt people if she heals them. Giolla grasps Mansherry's head before proclaiming that she will squeeze her power out no matter what it takes, prompting Mansherry to cry out to Leo for help once more.
Elsewhere, Leo and Kabu rush down a hallway as an underling fires a cannonball at them. Though Leo dodges, Kabu is hit, prompting Inhel to wonder what happened to him. Telling Leo to go on, Kabu promises to catch up with him later and claims that he is alright, which Leo grudgingly agrees to do. The underling attempts to shoot Leo as well, but Leo jumps in the air and dodges the cannonball, which hits the ceiling and buries the underling and his companion in rubble as Leo rushes out. Meanwhile, Giolla continues to hurt Mansherry while demanding that she take out the watering can, only for Mansherry to claim that Giolla is hurting her as a tear falls from her eye. The tear lands on an injured underling beneath Mansherry and heals him, to the surprise and delight of Giolla, who is informed by another underling that Mansherry's tear fell on him.
Walking over to the unconscious executives, Giolla notes that Mansherry's tears can heal as well before ordering her to cry while hitting her dozens of times in rapid succession. Seeing this, Viola frantically tells Leo to hurry, prompting Leo to confirm that he will do so before charging through more underlings. When Riku asks her what is wrong, Viola reveals that Giolla has discovered the healing properties of Mansherry's tears and is beating her in order to make her cry, causing the dwarves to tear up as Maujii attempts to go save Mansherry, only to be held back by Bomba, Bobomba, and Baxcon as Bomba tells him that they have to rely on Leo and Kabu for now. At the plateau, Usopp expresses surprise at Mansherry being able to heal others, prompting Viola to explain that she ate the Chiyu Chiyu no Mi, which allows her to heal. As Usopp notes that this must be why the enemy wants her, Kin'emon and Kanjuro confirm this as Viola reveals that Giolla is trying to use this power to revive the fallen executives.
Inhel declares that there will be a crisis if she succeeds as a shocked Usopp notes that the executives will keep coming back no matter how many times they are beaten. As Kin'emon states that there will be no end, the dwarves encourage Leo and Kabu to keep going while Usopp asks Viola if Sugar is among the executives whom Giolla has gathered, prompting him and the dwarves to express shock when Viola reveals that she is. The dwarves and Usopp recall their experiences with Sugar as Usopp declares that their efforts will be meaningless if the executives come back. As Usopp and the dwarves cheer him on, Leo blasts through the remaining underlings in the hall before arriving in the room with Giolla, Mansherry, and the executives. However, Giolla claims that Leo is too late as the underlings in the room advance on him. Though Leo quickly defeats the underlings, Giolla manages to get Mansherry crying and begins sprinkling her tears on the executives while declaring that the second round begins now. Suddenly, Kabu rushes into the room and tells Leo to deal with Giolla before knocking the executives out of the way of the falling tears with Beetle Upper.
Leaping between the executives and the defeated underlings, Leo attaches them to his needle with thread as Giolla declares that she will simply line up the executives and try again. However, Leo threads his needle throughout her dress and promises to make sure she and the others are never separated again before defeating Giolla with Haute Couture: Patch Work by pulling on the thread, causing those whom he caught before to slam into Giolla, knocking her unconscious. As she falls, Giolla lets go of Mansherry, who happily notes that Leo came to save her like a prince as Leo catches her in his arms. Meanwhile, having seen this, Viola declares to the others that Leo made it, prompting them to yell in excitement and commend Leo for a job well done. Grabbing Leo's suspender, Mansherry tells him that she was scared, only for Leo to inform her that she has gained some weight, which prompts Mansherry to punch him as Kabu notes that it is the same as ever.
At the royal palace, Bellamy continues to bounce around the room with Spring Hopper while hitting Monkey D. Luffy repeatedly. After being smashed into a wall, Luffy tells Bellamy that he really will die if he keeps going because his body is injured, only for Bellamy to hit him once more while noting that he is still worrying about his enemy despite taking so many blows. When Bellamy claims that Luffy must have also gone through an event that shattered his confidence, Luffy glares at him, prompting Bellamy to hit him from behind while proclaiming that he might be able to remain in Doflamingo's memory for a little longer if he manages to take down Luffy before dying. Bellamy punches Luffy, who coughs up blood, before continuing to bounce around the room as Luffy looks at him with a determined look on his face.

Luffy continues to persuade Bellamy to stop stating Doflamingo isn't worth dying for. Bellamy refuses to listen and continues his assault on Luffy. 
Mansherry attempts to flirt with Leo and asks him to carry her since she hurt her legs. Leo obliviously thinks her selfish side showed up and says she can just heal herself since she's always been very fast. This upsets Mansherry stating she's not running and didn't ask Leo to save her. Leo is angered about her mood swings and is whacked over the head by Kabu telling him to just carry her stating they don't have time to mess around. Leo carries her on his back complaining about her attitude while the Princess is happy to have him carry her while Kabu notes Leo is so thick, noting that Mansherry is polite and kind to everyone but Leo due to her feelings for him. Just as they leave Giolla regains consciousness commenting she must alert Doflamingo immediately. Knowing his calculations of Mansherry's Chiyu Chiyu no Mi powers to restore anything at the cost of one's lifespan, that should anything happen to the SMILE Factory, it can easily be restored to its original form. She is unable to move and pleads with Senor Pink to protect it at all cost. 
At the SMILE factory, Franky and Pink are still at it with the cyborg landing a Strong Hammer on Pink's face. However, Pink uses the momentum to dive underground and grab Franky from behind using his MeowMeow Suplex again. Both then fall over exhausted from their injuries. The Dwarves and fans alike note they are both at their limit while asking them both why they don't dodge their attacks, stating they took them both on 30 times each. Franky states when a man is offered a drink he can't turn away from it stating Pink is a hard man. He shouts he will not dodge a single attack and take them all one and come out on top saying that is his "strong style". He knows the Dwarves are worried but it is a duel between men and promises he will win in his own way and won't let them become slaves again. 
Senor Pink is touched by these words and states he'll remember them stating he's not as young as he used to be and will finish this with the next move, prompting one of his fans to note how far away he is. He then asks if what Franky said is true and that men don't go back on their word if he takes his attack without dodging. He swims towards Franky telling him to try to survive this next move proclaiming if he does survive he will admit defeat and take any punishment from Franky. Franky says it's a deal while being grabbed by Pink and swam outside the factory up a tower, much to the shock of the Dwarves. Pink notes how the sky is darker than usual wishing he could keep going up higher to see his wife Russian and his son Gimlet but gravity is between them, prompting Franky to ask what he means. Pink reveals he knew of Franky's cyborg body and how is back is his weak spot and unleashes a devastating attack called "Baby Buster" crashing Franky into the ground. As Pink emerges seemingly victorious, he turns around shocked to see Franky, who's left eye seems to be more cybernetic now, emerges from the rubble. Pink keeps true to his word and admits defeat while apologizing to the Young Master. Franky unleashes a brutal "Franky Iron Boxing" on Pink, thrashing him around with his enlarged fists. 
While being assaulted, Pink reminisces the first time he met Russian on a rainy day for their first date. When she says she hates pirates she asks Pink what he does and he lies about being a banker. In time they marry and have a son named Gimlet. He juggles his duties to his family and crew and returns one day to discover of Gimlet's death. Russian reveals he had a fever a week ago just as Pink disappeared and the doctor's couldn't help him. She reveals his lies shouting she called the bank and they never heard of him demanding to know who he really is. She angrily slaps him and runs off telling him to not follow her. However, she fell in a landslide from the rain and sand and was buried on top leaving her in a vegetative state stating she does not have long to live. Pink can only grieve over her condition blaming himself for her and Gimlet's fates. He then regularly visits her for the next year doing everything in his power to get her to smile again. He wishes to hear her voice and see her smile even a little so he puts on Gimlet's bonnet since he had his face. Just as he puts it away thinking it wasn't funny he's shocked to see Russian smile.

In the past, several people at a hospital scream in surprise as Senor Pink walks through the hallways with a bonnet on his head, a pacifier in his mouth, and nothing but a diaper on his legs while carrying flowers. Upon reaching Russian's room, Senor Pink enters and greets her, and after a few seconds Russian smiles at the sight of him. As Senor Pink happily sets down the flowers near her bed, a doctor and nurse watching from the door look at each other in surprise. Later, Senor Pink opens his closet to look for clothes to wear, but sees the bonnet and decides to wear it again along with the pacifier. As Senor Pink walks through the streets, those around him how in laughter and sarcastically compliment his clothing, while a man tells a woman near him that he lost his wife and child in an accident, prompting her to note that his spirit must have been broken.
Later, Diamante and Trebol laugh at Senor Pink's attire as Diamante wonders what he is doing. While Trebol asks Senor Pink if he is trying to be funny, Gladius asks him what happened to his suits as Lao G claims this is embarrassing. However, Senor Pink merely says he is going out, leaving Trebol shocked. Soon afterward, Senor Pink walks by two boys, who call him a pervert, as others on the street say similar things. However, most of the pedestrians leave the street when it begins to rain, leaving Senor Pink standing under a store overhang with a couple and their baby inside behind him. After the rain makes him think of Russian, Senor Pink rushes to her room in the hospital and apologizes for being late, only for some of the flowers he is carrying to fall on the floor. As Senor Pink kneels to pick them up, he sees Russian smiling once more and tells her that his outfit is worth more to him than any expensive suit is.
In the present, Franky continues pummeling Senor Pink, who recalls the first time he met Russian, before sending him flying with one last punch. As his sunglasses shatter, Senor Pink notes that the rain which Russian loved so much has stopped. However, upon seeing the sunlight come through the clouds above, Senor Pink begins to cry while remembering Russian once more and lands on the ground below. As the dwarves and Senor Pink's groupies call out for the two of them, Franky limps over to Senor Pink and asks him why he is crying before wiping the tears off his face while telling him to tell him about Russian over drinks one day. As Kyuin and the groupies rush to Senor Pink's side, Franky approaches the SMILE Factory alongside the dwarves, whom he commands to destroy the factory. The dwarves rush inside as Franky tells Monkey D. Luffy he will leave the rest up to him before collapsing.
Meanwhile, as the Marines in the city rush to help the wounded, Diamante creates a huge fissure in the Flower Hill with his sword before telling Kyros that they will have showtime together. Telling Kyros that he wants to see the miserable image of a father and daughter dying together, Diamante attacks him with Hangetsu Glaive, creating another fissure as Kyros, Rebecca, and Nico Robin are sent flying back, before claiming that Kyros forgot his place earlier. Diamante asks Kyros if he thought he was simply a talented matador with the power to make things ripple before proclaiming that he is the current hero of the Corrida Colosseum. When Kyros proclaims that he does not care about the title and stabs at him, Diamante simply turns himself into a flag and winds around Kyros before heading toward Rebecca and Robin, only for Kyros to leap into the air and attack him once more.
After dodging Kyros's attack, Diamante clashes with him before using Army Bandera to make the flower field ripple and warp underneath Kyros, who is tossed from place to place by the ground before clashing with Diamante several more times. When Kyros dodges a stab from him, Diamante flattens his sword and turns it around, forcing Kyros to dodge once more. As Diamante commends him for almost landing a hit, Kyros falls to his knee, prompting Diamante to note that his exhaustion is to be expected given how he has been running around and protecting his daughter on a wavering field all day with only one leg before claiming that he would have already collapsed if he were a normal person. Elsewhere, Tank Lepanto asks Viola how Kyros is doing, prompting her to reveal that he is completely exhausted.
Telling Diamante that he does not have to worry about his missing leg, Kyros proclaims that he would not have come to this battlefield if he intended to use it as an excuse before declaring that he is proud of his missing leg because he dedicated it to someone whom he owed a lot to. However, Diamante merely notes that this means he does not have to hesitate to strike Kyros's weak point and claims that simply dealing a final blow to Kyros would be too boring while taking out several oddly-shaped flat objects from inside his cape. Asking Kyros if he wants to play a game, Diamante throws the objects in front of him, causing them to regain their three-dimensional shape as cannons, before declaring that this is the last showtime as the cannons fire something into the air.
When Rebecca wonders if the objects in the air are confetti, Diamante reveals that these are actually objects which he made flat with his power and declares that he will undo his power before using Hira Release, causing the objects to turn into spiked iron balls. As Diamante states that the balls look like beautiful stardust, Kyros tells Robin to protect Rebecca as Diamante claims the balls can kill an entire army. Robin notes that she is glad that they are in a flower field before summoning dozens of hands with Mil Fleurs to chop down sunflowers as Diamante brings out an iron umbrella. Telling his opponents to struggle as they please, Diamante bids them farewell before using Death Enjambre, causing the spiked balls to begin raining down. However, Robin uses Hanagasa to form a tree of sunflowers and hands over herself and Rebecca, forming a shield from the spiked balls as she notes that this was close.
As Diamante notes that Robin is handling this quite well, Kyros tells him to pay attention, prompting Diamante to turn around in surprise to see Kyros deflecting the iron balls with his sword while declaring that no good army could be defeated by this technique. Kyros leaps toward Diamante, who wonders if he could even avoid getting wet in the rain before taking out his pistol and shooting Kyros in his leg, causing him to fall to the ground. As a shocked Rebecca screams for him, Kyros yells in pain as the spiked balls land on him while a laughing Diamante reprimands Kyros for stumbling now. Declaring that she will never forgive Diamante, Rebecca attempts to run toward him, only for Robin to restrain her while pointing out that there are still spiked balls falling out there.
Diamante reveals that this is the same gun that he shot Scarlett with and tells Kyros that he should be happy to die by the same gun that killed his wife, prompting Rebecca to declare once more that she will never forgive him. Hearing this, Diamante commends her for saying this before trying to goad her into fighting him. As Rebecca tells Robin to let her go because she needs to kill Diamante, a spiked ball pierces the flower tree, prompting Robin to wonder how much longer it will last. However, Rebecca and Diamante are stunned to see a heavily wounded Kyros standing up in the rain of spiked balls as Kyros proclaims that this is his fight. Telling Rebecca to drop her sword, Kyros points out how she has followed her mother's wish of not hurting anyone for a decade as Rebecca pleads with him to get under the tree. As Rebecca recalls how she was berated for never shedding blood in the Corrida Colosseum, Kyros declares that her hands are still clean and that Scarlett's spirit lives on in them. A tearful Rebecca drops her sword as Kyros, claiming that there is no need to bathe her hands in the blood of a devil like Diamante, leaps toward Diamante while declaring that he will not let Rebecca hold a sword.

Leaping toward Diamante, Kyros slashes at him, resulting in a shockwave that blows Diamante back. While dodging and blocking Kyros's attacks, Diamante expresses disbelief at him being able to move during Death Enjambre. After moving away from Kyros, Diamante asks him if his body is an iron ball, only to note that Kyros must be feeling immense pain after seeing a spiked ball land in his arm before demanding to know if Kyros is a ball of stupidity. However, Kyros proclaims that feeling pain is a mark of being human and that the Donquixote Pirates do not understand this before clashing with Diamante once more. Recalling Scarlett's death, Kyros continues clashing with Diamante before claiming that the Donquixote Family does not understand the pain of losing someone they love or being unable to feel whatever they touch. Declaring that what he is currently feeling does not hurt when compared to the tragedies which Dressrosa has suffered, Kyros leaps forward and resumes clashing with Diamante.
After noting that Diamante called him a ball, Kyros proclaims that he will become a ball of the anger of Dressrosa and strike Diamante down before cutting his iron umbrella in half. Shocked by this, Diamante expresses surprise at Kyros's power and compares his glory to that of 20 years ago before crossing blades with Kyros multiple times. Telling Kyros to not underestimate his sword skill, Diamante uses Hangetsu Glaive, only for Kyros to leap over the resulting fissure in the ground before resuming his clashing with Diamante. Elsewhere, upon noticing her flinch, Riku Doldo III asks Viola if something happened to Kyros and Rebecca, prompting Viola to reveal that Rebecca is fine before noting that the fight is intense enough for her to feel Kyros's anger and pain through her Clairvoyance.
On Flower Hill, Diamante continues to cross swords with Kyros while calling him a monster for having not collapsed yet. Suddenly, Kyros falls to his knee, prompting Diamante to note he has finally reached his limit as the last of the iron balls hits the ground. Approaching Kyros, Diamante raises his sword above his head while proclaiming that he will end this for Kyros as he did with Scarlett. As an angered Kyros recalls his history with Scarlett, Viola curses Diamante for mentioning her again. While Riku recalls being informed of Scarlett's death. Viola recalls Diamante bragging about killing her sister and Tank Lepanto preventing her from attacking Diamante in revenge.
Proclaiming that he will not let Kyros or Rebecca escape, Diamante claims that they lost to the Donquixote Family a decade ago and that losers should accept their defeat. Upon hearing this, Kyros stands up and leaps toward Diamante, who states that his strike will rend the ground before clashing with Kyros several more times. When Kyros leaps away from a strike that creates a fissure in the ground, Diamante claims that he hopes Kyros can dodge it with his wounded leg, prompting Kyros to state that he will not dodge it before leaping forward to resume clashing with Diamante, who calls him an idiot. Leaping back, Kyros proclaims that his sword carries a decade's worth of Dressrosa's suffering and that he will take back peace before leaping toward Diamante, who prepares to use Hangetsu Glaive once more. However, Kyros intercepts his strike before using Trueno Bastardo, which cuts Diamante's sword in half and grievously wounds him.
Diamante is sent flying back and lands on Scarlett's grave marker, which causes him to cough up blood before falling to the side. Seeing Kyros stand up before Scarlett's grave, a tearful Rebecca is motioned to go to him by Nico Robin. As Rebecca runs toward Kyros, Robin falls to her knees with a wounded back before smiling. Running up to a sitting Kyros, Rebecca tells him that he needs to get medical treatment immediately before seeing the grave marker, which reminds her of Kyros in his toy form swearing to protect her with his life. Having seen this, a tearful Viola informs the others that Kyros has defeated Diamante, causing them to celebrate. As Viola reveals that Rebecca is also okay, a citizen expresses disbelief at Kyros taking down the hero of the Corrida Colosseum, prompting another citizen to remind him that Kyros was the original undefeated champion.
Turning around, Viola declares that the members of the Donquixote Family have been defeated one by one by allies of the Straw Hat Pirates before revealing that four still remain: Bellamy, Pica, Trebol, and Donquixote Doflamingo. As the citizens present lament how they were trying to kill the Straw Hats, Riku begins to walk away, prompting Usopp to ask him where he is going. When Riku explains how he is going to the town because he believes there is still something he can do, Tank joins him as the citizens to decide to go as well in order to tell the others that there is still hope. As Kanjuro notes that things are turning in their favor, Usopp wonders where Issho went, prompting Kanjuro to point out that he left a while ago.
Meanwhile, in the town below, Issho asks a Marine what the situation is like, prompting him to report that they have not gotten everything under control yet. Hearing this, Issho tells him and the other Marines present to gather all the citizens in one place where they can be defended. As the Marines run off, Issho turns around and looks toward the plateau as Roronoa Zoro slashes through one of Pica's stone arms with Samon before cutting another stone arm to pieces with Hirameki followed by Toro. After cutting Pica's stone face into sections with Otoro, Zoro lands on the ground and enters his Nigiri stance, only for a laughing Pica to inform him that this is where their fight ends because he has something to attend to as his stone face slides into the mountain behind it. When Zoro attempts to pursue him, several stone spikes appear to block his way as more appear along the side of the mountain.
On Flower Hill, Rebecca notes that the field is shaking before being thrown into the air alongside Kyros by a stone spike as several more appear. Watching this, Robin sees Pica's face forming atop one of the spikes and recognizes him. As Kyros and Rebecca hit the ground, Pica berates Diamante for looking so pathetic in defeat as Kyros moves in front of Rebecca while drawing his sword.

Watching Bellamy bounce around a hallway in the royal palace with Spring Hopper while bleeding, Monkey D. Luffy begs him to stop before he kills himself, prompting Bellamy to reprimand him for still saying this. As Luffy points out how his body has reached its limit, Bellamy punches him in the face with his Busoshoku Haki-coated fist, sending Luffy rolling back, before continuing to bounce around the room while declaring that he will decide where he dies himself. Reminding Luffy that he intends to become the Pirate King, Bellamy braces himself on the ceiling and proclaims that Luffy should not let himself be held up by these sorts of situations before smashing into him and punching his torso, causing Luffy to cough up blood.
Meanwhile, on Flower Hill, Kyros stares down Pica before falling to his knee, prompting Rebecca to express concern. Kyros notes that it was obvious from the start that the fight would never end as long as another opponent remained before telling Rebecca to fall back because he must put this country back in the hands of Riku Doldo III. Hearing this, Pica asks him and Rebecca what Riku is to them before reminding Rebecca that she has been cursed at and Kyros that he had lost his leg and become a toy because of him. However, Rebecca counters with the fact that the Donquixote Pirates framed him as Kyros declares that he owes Riku a lot for taking him in as a young boy before proclaiming that the people of Dressrosa were happy while the peace-understanding Riku family ruled even though they were not as prosperous. Claiming that Riku taught them simply living was happiness, Kyros tells Pica that the whole country wants him on the throne and the Donquixote Pirates kicked out.
Pica merely states that he understands before disappearing, prompting Nico Robin to wonder what is going on. As the ground begins rumbling, Pica uses Charlestone, causing another spike to emerge from the hillside as a shocked Bartolomeo wonders what just happened. Robin realizes that Pica just went to the third level as more spikes emerge, prompting Roronoa Zoro to curse Pica while demanding to know if he wants to fight or not before promising to cut him down once Pica enters his range. However, upon seeing Pica attacking several Donquixote Family underlings and an unconscious Hajrudin, Zoro realizes he is attacking the injured as Sai tells Baby 5 to watch out. When Baby 5 tries to hold onto his arm, Sai reprimands her for getting too close, prompting Baby 5 to tell him to not be so shy since they will be husband and wife. Appearing behind Baby 5, Pica declares that she has betrayed them before using Ishiusu on her, prompting Sai to push her out of the way before being hit by the two spiked sphere halves himself.
As Baby 5 and Chinjao call out to him, Sai manages to push the two sphere halves apart while coating most of his body in Busoshoku Haki, prompting Chinjao to offer to help him get out. However, a panicked Sai tells him to look out as Pica uses Charlestone on all of them, along with Ideo. Managing to dodge the stone spikes, Sai lands on the ground before cursing Pica as Zoro runs toward them. Unsheathing one of his swords, Zoro demands to know how Pica could attack the injured, only for Pica to attack him with Bitestone, which he counters using Baki. With one half of his stone face rising into the air, Pica asks Zoro if he knows who is on the King's Plateau, prompting Zoro to cut him in half once more while declaring that the king of Dressrosa is there. Rising behind Zoro, Pica reminds him that Riku is the former king, only to be cut in half once more as Zoro demands to know what his point is. Pica forms another face while claiming that it is unfair for only Donquixote Doflamingo to take the blame for Dressrosa's invasion even though such things happen all the time.
Driving Zoro back with more spikes, Pica notes that the samurai and Usopp are on the plateau alongside the former officials of Dressrosa and that the whole country seeks Riku's restoration. When Zoro asks him why this matters, Pica declares that it angers him because Doflamingo is the only king before suddenly going silent. After a few seconds, the ground begins rumbling once more as the giant stone statue of Pica begins shaking. As the other combatants wonder what is going on, the statue detaches itself from the mountain and reforms its missing parts as the citizens below flee in terror. Now in control of the statue, Pica declares that Dressrosa is Donquixote's country before beginning to walk forward. As Usopp wonders what he is planning, Zoro runs toward Pica and slashes through several stone obstacles while wondering if Pica plans on killing Riku.
While the terrified citizens below attempt to outrun him, Pica takes a step forward, flattening the land beneath him while creating a shockwave that sends the nearby buildings and Marines flying. As the Marines open fire on Pica to no avail before being sent flying by another step, Zoro continues to run toward Pica while noting that Pica drove him out this far so that he could not catch up to him. noting that he has to do something soon because it will only take Pica one punch to flatten the plateau and kill Usopp and Riku in an instant. Several underlings fire on Zoro in an attempt to prevent him from interfering with Pica, but Zoro simply cuts them down before moving on. Seeing the spikes below her being destroyed, Robin realizes Zoro is on the move as Kyros notes there is no way to stop Pica's giant body.
As he runs, Zoro begins thinking of plans to take Pica down. His first plan is a long-distance slash, but Zoro notes that it would travel too far and thus be too weak. His second plan is jumping on top of Pica, but Zoro quickly realizes that it would be impossible to jump so high. His third plan is to warn Usopp and the others, but Zoro notes that they would not hear him from this distance. His fourth plan is to call Usopp on the Den Den Mushi and tell him to run, but Zoro finds that he does not have it with him after reaching into his jacket. As Pica continues moving toward the plateau, Zoro notes that there is not enough time for Usopp and the others to flee anyway as several cheering underlings are knocked out by Pica's footsteps. Baby 5 notes that Pica plans to kill Riku, prompting Sai to admit that he does not like it even though it is none of his business as Orlumbus wonders what they should do.
While Bartolomeo challenges Pica to fight him instead of attacking Usopp, Usopp and the samurai scream in terror as Elizabello II notes that he is glad that he saved his King Punch as Zoro instructed him. As Elizabello promises to use it to save his friend Riku, Zoro tells him to wait before reminding those present that it is useless to just destroy Pica's stone body and that they need to defeat his real body. Elizabello demands to know what they should do instead as Pica reaches the plateau, prompting Orlumbus to note that they are out of time. However, as Pica cracks his knuckles, Zoro looks at Orlumbus and grins before tying on his bandanna while asking Elizabello to give him two minutes. While Pica demands to know if Riku is on the plateau, Zoro declares that his fifth plan is flying into the sky and cutting up Pica.

As the shocked citizens of Dressrosa look on from below before fleeing, Pica stands over the King's Plateau in his giant stone body, causing Usopp, Kin'emon, and Kanjuro to scream in terror as other combatants on the island realize that Pica will kill those on the plateau if nothing is done to stop him. Meanwhile, Elizabello II. having warmed up for his King Punch, asks Roronoa Zoro how long he will make him wait as Zoro runs up to Orlumbus and reminds him of how he threw a person like a bombshell earlier before grinning. Pica tells Riku Doldo III to prepare himself and begins winding up a punch, only to be interrupted by Marines shooting him in the face with cannonballs. However, Pica is unfazed and proceeds to stomp on the ground near the Marines, creating a massive shockwave that blows away nearby buildings and civilians, which prompts Riku to yell at him to stop before reminding Pica that he is his target.
After being told by Riku to get everyone else out of here, Tank Lepanto orders those present to get off the plateau. As Pica begins stepping toward the plateau, the civilians on it flee in terror as Tank and Viola beg Riku to retreat as well, only for Riku to order them to leave as well before stating that he is Pica's target and everyone else fleeing while he is being targeted is fine with him. Hearing this, Pica agrees to do as Riku wishes before lifting up his hand, prompting a terrified Usopp to note that it is as big as a town. Meanwhile, Orlumbus grabs and lifts Zoro into the air, prompting Sai to ask them what they are planning to do, before asking Zoro if he is sure about using a technique that is not meant to throw people safely, only for Zoro to point out that they do not have time for anything else.
When Pica promises to crush the King's Plateau along with Riku, Zoro angrily notes that he is only going after people who are not willing to fight as Orlumbus prepares himself. Claiming Riku is not a king nor fit to be one, Pica throws his punch, only to stop in surprise when the civilians surround Riku while explaining that they will not run away if he will not. As Riku once again orders to civilians to run, Pica wonders if he has regained his previous popularity before mocking Riku's failure to protect Dressrosa because of his lack of military strength and inability to defeat his enemies. Promising to destroy Riku along with his ideal, Pica begins bringing his hand down upon the plateau as Orlumbus throws Zoro with Teitoku Killer Bowling. Flying through the air toward Pica, Zoro unsheathes his third sword and coats all three blades and his hands in Busoshoku Haki before placing one sword in his mouth. Meanwhile, Riku admits that Pica is right and claims that he will never take the throne again before proclaiming that he tried his best to be a good man.
Continuing to fly through the air, Zoro narrates that nine mountains and eight seas make up a world in which there is nothing he cannot cut while spinning the two swords in his hands. When Pica questions Riku's proclamation, Riku claims that he would rather die than kill someone in order to rule and that there is no future for a country based on slaughter, prompting Pica to mock him because his ideals represent the reason why the good die instead of making history. However, Pica's attack is interrupted by Zoro, who uses Three Sword Style Ogi: Ichidai Sanzen Daisen Sekai to cut his stone body in half horizontally, shocking all the observing combatants. Upon seeing Pica's eyes reappear, Zoro leaps off the plateau while noting that Pica escaped into the upper half of his body before slicing that half in two vertically. As the two halves fall apart, Zoro notes that Pica's body will not be able to separate into different parts of the stone before cutting off the arm of the left half where Pica is residing.
Upon seeing the fingers of the stone hand twitching, Zoro notes that Pica cannot escape into the ground while in midair before cutting off the fingers of the stone hand and demanding that Pica come out. When Pica does not respond, Zoro cuts the rest of the arm into five sections and lands on a piece of stone while asking Pica how long he plans on hiding, which prompts Pica to emerge from one of the sections while demanding to know if Zoro believes he has already won. Proclaiming that he will not lose if his body is clad in Haki, Pica coats his entire body in Busoshoku Haki before claiming that Zoro will lose if he is knocked off from here, only for Zoro to state that this will only happen if Pica's Haki is stronger than his is. As Pica affirms that his Haki is obviously stronger, Zoro asks Pica if he knows what people call those like him before recalling his battle with Dracule Mihawk on the Baratie.
Holding his swords in a triangular formation, Zoro begins spinning them and claims that he does not have time to be held up by someone like Pica before leaping toward him as Pica attacks. Reiterating his statement of being able to cut anything, Zoro slashes Pica with Sanzen Sekai, causing Pica's helmet to split open as he coughs up blood, before telling him to stop causing innocent people trouble. As a shocked Elizabello notes that Zoro has saved his friend Riku, the rubble from Pica's destroyed stone body begins falling on the plateau, prompting Usopp to exclaim that they are going to die anyway. However, Elizabello uses his King Punch to blow the rubble away before expressing irritation at Zoro for making him use his punch to blow away stones as Zoro commends him for doing a good job.

Hanging off a ledge, Roronoa Zoro recalls his training with Dracule Mihawk, in which the master swordsman informed him that having chips on the blades of his sword is an affront to his honor and that he could prevent this by hardening his blades with Busoshoku Haki. He also forbade Zoro from drinking until he mastered the technique. At the King's Plateau, Fujitora asks his men if there are any wounded, but is informed that his Devil Fruit powers kept them all safe as citizens and combatants around the country react to Pica's defeat. Meanwhile, the SMILE Factory explodes, to the shock of those who can see it. Inside, the dwarves carry tanks of SAD and smash them while proclaiming that they will no longer be taken advantage of. However, Trebol, who is watching, claims that they can still restore the factory and heal Pica because they still have Mansherry.
At the Sunflower Fields, Leo and Mansherry meet up with Kyros, Nico Robin, and Rebecca, with Mansherry offering to heal the heavily wounded Kyros. However, Kyros refuses to let Mansherry do this because he believes there is some limit to her powers and that there are those in the country who need such healing more than he does. As Mansherry looks over Dressrosa for the first time, Kyros notes they can only leave Donquixote Doflamingo's defeat to Monkey D. Luffy and Trafalgar D. Water Law. Below the palace, Koala contacts Sabo and asks him where he is, prompting Sabo to admit he is running a little late because it took some time to free all the prisoners in the Colosseum. He tells Koala there aren't that many things she can do on her own before saying he's coming when Koala says Luffy might be in danger.
Back at the King's Plateau, Usopp tearfully pulls Zoro up while Kin'emon congratulates him for defeating Pica, but Zoro tells them it is not over yet because the Birdcage is still present, which means Doflamingo is still alive. Back at the palace, Bellamy had defended his decision to attack Luffy at the cost of his life by stating that Doflamingo might remember him this way before punching Luffy into a wall. However, Luffy had pointed out that Doflamingo only wanted Bellamy to be pitted against him and die from the beginning, which Bellamy admitted was likely correct before claiming it is his dying wish to fulfill this. Bellamy then thought back to when he first met Luffy and, after his journey to Sky Island, Bellamy reacted in shock seeing the afterimage in the sky of Luffy. Bellamy told Luffy to just stand there and die if he did not want to fight back before leaping toward him, but Luffy steeled himself and punched Bellamy into the ground with a Busoshoku Haki-hardened punch, defeating Bellamy once more. Luffy screams Doflamingo's name, prompting Doflamingo to note that he hopes Luffy comes up to the roof and sees Law's corpse.

As Doflamingo calls Luffy to the rooftop, it is shown what happened a few minutes earlier. Trebol used Sticky Launcher to send Law sprawling at the edge of the roof, and he and Doflamingo stood over the severely injured Shichibukai. Trebol expressed his surprise that Law was still alive, mockingly suggesting that he give up. Doflamingo echoed his executive's thoughts, telling Law he pitied how everything he'd done - escaping the White City, meeting Corazon, working for 13 years to depose Doflamingo, and his alliance with Luffy - had been worthless. As he pointed his gun at Law's chest, Doflamingo offered him a deal: a chance to make the rest of Law's short life meaningful by performing the Perennial Youth Operation on him. In exchange, Doflamingo offered to make any wish of Law's come true.
Law appeared to accept at first, but then requested that Doflamingo bring his dead brother Corazon back to life and submit himself to all the citizens of Dressrosa. Law laughed that Doflamingo's life was the pitiful one, saying that the Straw Hats can cause miracles. Doflamingo shot Law eight times in various places, mocking the word "Corazon" on Law's jacket. He furiously yelled that despite all Law's efforts to imitate Corazon, the legacy of the Heart will end.
Across the island, Tank Lepanto and the crowd of citizens on the King's Plateau decide to climb down to the city in order to assist their former king Riku. Viola confirms to Zoro and Usopp that of the opposing forces, only Doflamingo and Trebol remain standing, but their own forces have also taken a hit.
Meanwhile, Luffy breaks through the palace roof, eager to fight Doflamingo. The Shichibukai taunts him about Bellamy, and blocks a Gear Third punch with Spider's Web. Luffy leaps over the web and uses Hawk Gatling to attack Doflamingo from above, but Doflamingo uses Break White to surround Luffy in a mass of strings.
Luffy breaks out of Doflamingo's trap but steps on a pool of blood. Looking around, he sees Law lying on the ground. In confusion, Luffy asks Law what has happened, but he remains unresponsive. Doflamingo tells Luffy that Law is dead, shocking the pirate. As the citizens of Dressrosa realize that the Birdcage is shrinking, Doflamingo mocks Law's last words and states that it is time for the game to end. Luffy prepares to fight but faintly hears Law's voice telling him to listen closely.

The island of Dressrosa begins trembling as the Birdcage begins closing in on itself, and the citizens watch in shock as the strings slice the buildings into pieces. They then run toward the downtown, struggling to outpace the cage. Marines stationed on all corners of the island report that the cage is moving inwards. On the palace rooftop, Doflamingo reveals to an angered Luffy that the Birdcage is shrinking, which shocks the pirate as the Birdcage cuts up an aqueduct, flooding a large part of town. Doflamingo says that everything will be cut up in about one hour as the Marines head out to help the people at the edge of the country.
One of them helps an injured man up as another orders the citizens to run to the center of town. Meanwhile, some pirates, citizens, and a gorilla are tied up, begging to be untied so they can escape the cage. On the King's Plateau, Viola, Usopp, Zoro, Hack, Kin'emon, and Kanjuro react to the shrinking Birdcage, and near the Corrida Colosseum, the recently freed prisoner gladiators are shocked to find that after being freed from their prison, they are still being held captive. Below the King's Plateau, Riku curses Doflamingo for his destruction as a citizen near him begins losing hope. The fighters on the second and fourth levels of the palace plateau react to the shrinking cage as Robin looks up to the palace, and on the King's Plateau, Usopp begs Luffy to beat Doflamingo while Kin'emon realizes that everyone's lives are now dependent on Luffy.
On the palace rooftop, Doflamingo says that he will save nobody and that people who knew the country's secret should not be allowed to live. Meanwhile, as the citizens run toward the center of town, Sabo runs in the opposite direction. Doflamingo mockingly tells Luffy that he and all his friends would die just like Bellamy and Law already had, and Dressrosa would perish, though Doflamingo could just build another country. Luffy then rushes toward Doflamingo, saying he could stop that if he beat the Shichibukai, and Doflamingo hurls strings at him. Luffy dodges the strings and barrages Doflamingo with Haki-enhanced punches, but Doflamingo sends him hurtling to the ground with Fulbright. Luffy gets up, rushes toward Doflamingo again, and prepares an attack. Doflamingo prepares to shoot him, when Law suddenly switches places with Luffy and stabs an astonished Doflamingo with Gamma Knife.
Law tells Doflamingo that this attack will destroy him from the inside out as Doflamingo coughs up blood, shocking Trebol. Trebol asks Law how he is still alive and how he used an Ope Ope no Mi attack without creating a ROOM. Law reveals that he already made a ROOM which encompassed the entire palace plateau and was too large for them to see, at the cost of his lifespan. Law recalls how he was shot by Doflamingo, but the wound was not fatal. He then switched himself with a fallen Donquixote Pirate on the level below, and switched back after Doflamingo finished shooting his body double. When Luffy discovered his body,
Law revealed that he was still alive and that he had a plan.
The Gamma Knife causes Doflamingo to sink to his knees, and a shocked Trebol tells him that a king should never be on their knees. However, an angered Doflamingo grabs Law's face and prepares to shoot him, though Law accepts it since Doflamingo will still die. However, Luffy arrives and kicks Doflamingo in the face with Gear Second, sending the Shichibukai flying and landing backfirst in a pile of rubble. Law then remembers how he met Corazon and how Corazon fought to save his life. Luffy races toward Doflamingo, but Law stops him, saying it was his job to finish the Shichibukai off. After struggling to drag himself to Doflamingo, Law stands up and creates a ROOM, ready to deal the finishing blow.

Law stands over a beaten Doflamingo, preparing to finish the Shichibukai off and avenge Corazon. An angered Trebol attacks him, but is kicked out of the way by Luffy. Doflamingo remembers how Law came to the Donquixote Pirates resembling himself, but changed after Corazon took him in and betrayed him. Doflamingo tells Law how he really felt about Corazon, who to him was a good-for-nothing traitor. An angered Law then attacks Doflamingo with Counter Shock, causing the Shichibukai to cough up blood and convulse before going limp. A fatigued Law then steps back as he collapses from exhaustion.
Law is awoken by Luffy, and the two watch in shock as Doflamingo rises to his feet. Doflamingo reveals that he can use his powers to perform first aid by stitching his organs together, though it was not exactly healing. Trebol then grabs Luffy with a sticky chain and slams him into the floor far away from Doflamingo and Law. Doflamingo walks toward the fallen Law and prepares to kill him by stomping on his head. However, Luffy arrives and counters Doflamingo's foot with his own, and Doflamingo asks him why he did that. 
Doflamingo shakes off Luffy's block and tries stomping on Law again, but Luffy counters him again. This time, both of them use Haoshoku Haki, which astonishes Trebol and causes a large tremor around them. The force of their clash blows Law and Trebol away and causes a landslide to occur on the palace plateau, forcing Bartolomeo to shield himself. The clash is felt by everyone on Dressrosa, and Law watches it, knowing that his speculation that Luffy could use Haoshoku Haki was true. Trebol also watches the clash, remembering how he met a young Doflamingo after the child had used it for the first time. Trebol had offered Doflamingo the ability to kill anyone he wanted, and Doflamingo replied that there were lots of people he wanted to kill. In the present, Trebol yells to Luffy that he would never be a match for Doflamingo, as Doflamingo's upbringing had caused him to become a demon.
31 years ago, a young Doflamingo stood before Trebol and his promise of power. Doflamingo remembered how he, his brother, and his father were crucified by a mob for being World Nobles. Homing begged the mob to kill him and spare his children, and Doflamingo finally snapped. He shouted at the mob that he was not going to die and that he would kill all of them. This outburst awakens Doflamingo's Haoshoku Haki, which causes the mob to collapse. Later, Doflamingo stood before Trebol, Vergo, Diamante, and Pica as the first of the four revealed to him that he used Haki and so was chosen by heaven. Trebol presented Doflamingo a pistol and the Ito Ito no Mi as he offered him the ability to kill anyone he wished. Doflamingo remembered all the people who contributed to his suffering, including his father, as he wished to kill all of them. Later, Doflamingo killed his father with the gun presented to him. In the present, Trebol proclaimed Doflamingo to be the ultimate evil.
Luffy's and Doflamingo's clash ends in stalemate as Luffy attacks Doflamingo with Busoshoku Haki. While Doflamingo blocks the first strikes with his own Haki, Luffy manages to exploit an opening and deal several blows to the Shichibukai. However, Doflamingo evades Luffy's finishing strike as he takes to the air, remembering the suffering he went through. Luffy and Doflamingo clash with Haoshoku Haki once again, but Doflamingo prevails this time as he sends Luffy crashing into the edge of the palace rooftop.

Luffy is sent flying into the palace rooftop after clashing with Doflamingo, and Trebol catches him in a large pile of mucus, which immobilizes the pirate. Trebol tells Luffy that he will be dealt with later, but now it is time for Doflamingo to kill Law without opposition. Luffy desperately tries to fight his way out of the mucus, and attacks Trebol using Busoshoku Haki. However, despite punching a hole through Trebol, the executive only laughs. Luffy expresses his confusion, as he thought Trebol was a Logia, but Trebol questions that assumption. Law tells Luffy it is no use, as Trebol is a papier-mache man. Law states that he was glad he left the Donquixote Pirates, because otherwise he would have had to work with people like Trebol. This angers Trebol, who pins Law to the ground with mucus.
Trebol then heads toward Law, pushing Doflamingo out of the way. He tells Law that Doflamingo is the absolute king, and that 31 years ago he and the three other executives discovered him and gave him power. 31 years ago, Trebol, Vergo, Diamante, and Pica confronted Doflamingo after the boy had used Haoshoku Haki on the mob that lynched his family, saying he had been chosen by heaven and offering the power to take revenge. Doflamingo then killed his father and prepared to take his head to Mary Geoise so he could become a World Noble again. Later, the four executives confronted Doflamingo again after the boy had failed to return to the World Nobles and was almost killed. The executives offered to make Doflamingo king, if he would give them their dreams as well.
Later, Doflamingo sat and nursed a wound. Trebol found him and found out that a man in the city had given Doflamingo the wound. The executives then enter the building where the man was and confronted him about hurting Doflamingo, which the man admitted to. Trebol then shot the man and the others around him, and told the man that they were the Donquixote Family as the man passed out. The executives later proceeded to shoot up a town that Doflamingo liked in order for him to claim it, and captured several important people before blowing them up along with their building. Later, Diamante saw Doflamingo nursing a scrape on his knee, which happened as the boy fell on an uneven road. The executives proceeded to set the entire town containing the road on fire, and as Doflamingo stood on a pile of wreckage, the executives bowed before their king. As time passed, Doflamingo and the executives went anywhere they liked and the citizens hid in fear when they arrived.
In the present, Trebol tells Law that Doflamingo and the executives maintained a strong bond as they gathered new crew members, and prepares to set the mucus binding Law on fire. Law just mocks him, saying Doflamingo had been using them from the start. This enrages Trebol, who leaps at Law despite Doflamingo ordering him not to as Law activates ROOM. Trebol decides to not set the mucus on fire and instead kill Law in the most painful way possible: by shoving his staff down Law's throat. However, Law says that he was a pirate captain and for the sake of his pride could not leave both Trebol and Doflamingo to Luffy as he telepathically lifts up his severed arm, which still holds his sword. Spinning it around, Law slashes Trebol up the executive's chest. As this happens, the dwarves at the SMILE Factory suddenly feel like a weight has been lifted off their hearts. However, Franky tells them to focus and get out of the destroyed factory, as the Birdcage was approaching. Trebol reels in pain from the attack as the mucus covering him slips away, revealing him to be a very skinny hunchbacked man. Doflamingo angrily berates Trebol for his stupidity, and as a last resort to kill Law, Trebol spits mucus on his lighter, causing a massive explosion.
The fighters on the Flower Hill and King's Plateau react in shock at the explosion, and Viola looks inside the flames. She reveals with delight that Trebol has been defeated, leaving Doflamingo the only enemy left as he escapes the flames along with Luffy, who is carrying Law. Robin sees them and is shocked at how injured he is. Luffy sees Robin and throws Law down to her, and Robin catches him with her powers. However, Doflamingo is still intent on killing Law, and fires string bullets at Robin. Luffy attempts to stop him, but is too late as the bullets fly toward the Flower Field.

Doflamingo's string bullets fly toward Robin and Law, shocking everyone on the Flower Field. Suddenly, Cavendish arrives and deflects all the bullets. Noticing aloud that Doflamingo had still not been defeated, Cavendish speaks to Luffy, who tells the pirate to bring Law, Robin, and the others off the Flower Field. Cavendish argues, saying he wanted to land a hit on Doflamingo, but Luffy replies that he trusted Cavendish with his allies, causing Cavendish to reason that Luffy is a fan of his, so he complies. Cavendish tells Robin that he knew Bartolomeo was on the level below, so they could use his ability to get down. Leo and Mansherry inspect Law's severed arm, with the former saying he could stitch his arm back on before Mansherry heals it with her powers. Meanwhile, Bartolomeo is still frozen in awe at Zoro defeating Pica, and Cavendish shouts at him. Bartolomeo initially refuses to help him, but gladly complies when he is told he is helping Robin.
Meanwhile, Luffy confronts Doflamingo on the palace rooftop. Doflamingo tells Luffy that he was just helping put Law out of his misery, and that Luffy was already injured. However, Luffy replies that Doflamingo was also heavily injured as he rushes toward the Shichibukai. Luffy barrages Doflamingo with Gear 2 and Busoshoku Haki punches, managing to send him flying off the roof. However, Doflamingo only laughs, saying Luffy's punches were fast but not powerful. Doflamingo attacks Luffy with a large burning string, sending Luffy flying back. Doflamingo gets behind Luffy, remembering how he heard of Crocodile's defeat two years ago, and as a result started keeping an eye on Luffy. Two years ago, Doflamingo and Trebol reacted in shock to Crocodile's defeat and Luffy's bounty rising, with Doflamingo telling his crew to keep an eye on the Straw Hat Pirates. He was also shocked when he noticed the D. in Luffy's name. Afterwards, Luffy took part in the Summit War of Marineford, and now he had invaded Doflamingo's domain. Doflamingo expresses his surprise that Luffy had made it this far as he kicks the pirate into the edge of the rooftop, causing large chunks of the palace to fall onto the Flower Field.
The group on the Flower Field react in shock to the destruction, when Law suddenly awakes. Law tells Cavendish to leave him at the Flower Field, and both Cavendish and Robin initially refuse. However, Law tells them that he got Luffy into this fight and that it was his duty to be there during Luffy's victory, or die with him in his defeat. Robin tells Law that Luffy did not fight unless it was for personal reasons, but Law insists on staying. As Bartolomeo creates a barrier staircase, Cavendish decides to stay with Law, respecting his wish but not leaving him there to easily die. Rebecca tells Robin that Bartolomeo made them stairs as Robin nurses the wounds on her back. In response, Cavendish offers his coat to Robin and tells her to go, and she complies. As she leaves, Leo, Mansherry, and Kabu say that they will stay behind as well in order to treat Law.
The Birdcage continues shrinking, and the citizens continue running toward the center of town. The group on the King's Plateau wonders how they can stop it, when suddenly Zoro starts running away. Kin'emon and Kanjuro realize Zoro has an idea and decide to head after him. Meanwhile, Luffy and Doflamingo continue their brawl, attacking each other with Busoshoku and Haoshoku Haki, as well as their respective Devil Fruit powers. During the conflict, Doflamingo causes a large mass of strings to come from the ground and attack Luffy, and the pirate wonders where the strings came from as he avoids them and slides on them, activating Gear 2. Luffy attacks Doflamingo with Gomu Gomu no Red Hawk, and a large explosion occurs as Doflamingo blocks the attack. Luffy manages to send Doflamingo flying into the ground, but Doflamingo gets up with no sign of harm. Luffy tries attacking the Shichibukai with Gear 3, but Doflamingo easily dodges the slow attack and knees Luffy in the face, sending him flying into the ground.
Luffy struggles to get up as Doflamingo asks him if he can win before the Birdcage closes. Even though the Birdcage will close in one hour, its effects will happen before that. People unable to run effectively could possibly be caught in 30 minutes, and in 40 minutes they would be able to hear screams. In 50 minutes, Dressrosa would be caked in blood. Doflamingo tells Luffy that everyone would go out cursing him, since this would never have happened if the pirate had never set foot on the island. However, Luffy says that there was never peace on Dressrosa, remembering how Doflamingo had treated the toys and the prisoner gladiators. Saying that Doflamingo and his Birdcage stood in his way, Luffy holds his arm to his mouth and activates Gear 4.

As the citizens of Dressrosa continue running from the shrinking Birdcage, Marines and pirates alike assist the handicapped. Some citizens notice with a shock that the buildings not being sliced up by the Birdcage are being pushed along with it, making them even more afraid. On the second level of the palace plateau, Baby 5 explains how shrinking the Birdcage was Doflamingo's way of preventing his evil actions from being told. Sai then orders the Corrida Colosseum gladiators who are still standing to rescue the fallen and take them out of the plateau, and Baby 5 inwardly squeals in pride at her future husband's leadership, which Chinjao notes as well. Meanwhile, Viola, Usopp, and Hack climb down the King's Plateau, and Viola notices that the center of the Birdcage is shifting toward Doflamingo's location, meaning even the King's Plateau will be sliced apart. This causes Usopp to become frightened and order Hack to climb down faster. Zoro, Kin'emon and Kanjuro reach the streets of Dressrosa, and Zoro begins running in a direction. When asked where he is going, Zoro reveals that they are going to stop the Birdcage, shocking the two samurai. On the Flower Field, Cavendish examines Law's former severed arm, which had been treated by Leo and Mansherry. Cavendish says that when he worked as a toy in the underground harbor shipping Underworld materials, he realized that it would not be enough to just defeat Doflamingo himself. He tells Law that defeating Doflamingo would cause ripples all over the world, and Law replies that that is what they were after.
On the palace rooftop, Luffy casts off his sandals and Doflamingo watches in interest as he activates Gear 4. Luffy coats his arm in Busoshoku Haki and blows into it, inflating his muscles to massive proportions. The air moves into his torso and causes it to balloon, and Luffy's Haki takes the shape of tribal flames on his chest. With that, Gear 4: Boundman has been activated, and Luffy keeps bouncing on the ground. Doflamingo laughs at the absurdity of Luffy's new form, especially the constant bouncing. However, Luffy says that he used this form during his two-year training in order to put the animals into submission, as he remembers struggling to keep up with them with normal attacks. Doflamingo is still not impressed, but Luffy begins compressing his fist into his forearm and flies toward the Shichibukai at high speed. Doflamingo attempts to block Luffy's compressed punch that was named "Kong Gun" with his own Haki, but the punch sends him flying into the town far below.
Doflamingo slides into a building at high speed, causing it to fall over. The citizens nearby turn to see what has happened, and Viola reveals to Usopp and Hack in shock that Luffy has taken on a new form and sent Doflamingo flying into the street. The citizens stare at the fallen Doflamingo in shock and fear, wondering what has happened to their king. Two Marines attempt confronting Doflamingo, but the Shichibukai's anger causes them to lose their footing as the citizens run away in fear. Doflamingo looks up at the palace, angered and amazed that he had been sent flying that far. Suddenly, he sees that Luffy is flying toward him by compressing his legs and jumping off the air. Doflamingo tries attacking Luffy, but his attack misses as Luffy appears behind Doflamingo and dropkicks him with "Rhino Schneider", sending him crashing through several buildings. The citizens stare in shock at Luffy, and get even more confused as they watch the pirate bounce uncontrollably through the streets. On the third level of the palace plateau, Bartolomeo screams in delight at Luffy's new mode, and tries to tell Kyros how big of a deal this is. However, Kyros smacks Bartolomeo out of the way because he was blocking his eyesight.
Doflamingo ends up by the King's Plateau and struggles to comprehend Luffy's new form as he flies into the air. Luffy flies up to Doflamingo's location, and the two face off. Doflamingo attacks Luffy with several string attacks, but Luffy breaks them all as the two clash head-on. Doflamingo activates Busoshoku Haki and exchanges blows with Luffy, but the pirate physically overwhelms Doflamingo and headbutts him a long distance away. As Doflamingo flies, Luffy tries hitting him with a long punch, but Doflamingo dodges it and appears behind Luffy. Doflamingo kicks the defenseless Luffy with a Busoshoku Haki kick, but to his shock Luffy's body absorbs the blow despite also being covered in Haki. Luffy's body recoils from Doflamingo's kick and sends the Shichibukai flying back, and Luffy prepares another punch. Doflamingo dodges it again, but using his Python technique Luffy keeps changing the punch's direction. Doflamingo uses Overheat to stop Luffy, but Luffy's punch destroys it as it finally reaches Doflamingo and hits him in the face.

Luffy's Gear 4 punch sends Doflamingo flying through several buildings, and the citizens below stare in awe, deciding to cheer Luffy on despite not knowing who he is. On the Flower Field, Cavendish watches Luffy's new form in astonishment, but Law says that Luffy is overusing his Haki, confusing Cavendish. On the palace rooftop, Jesus Burgess searches for Luffy and sees him bouncing through the town. Koala, who hides behind a pile of rubble, remembers Burgess from the Corrida Colosseum and wonders what he wants with Luffy. Meanwhile, Viola, Hack, and Usopp have reached the Corrida Colosseum, and Viola contacts Riku Doldo III. Doldo asks if Doflamingo was the only one left standing, which Viola confirms.
In the streets below, Zoro runs toward the Birdcage when he is confronted by Kin'emon and Kanjuro. The samurai reveal that he is going in the wrong direction and tell him to get on Kanjuro's sparrow, which is struggling to carry the two samurai. Zoro gets on, causing the sparrow to strain extremely hard in order to start flying again. Meanwhile, the Birdcage reaches the SMILE Factory, and Franky sees this and tells the dwarves inside to evacuate the destroyed facility. As they exit the factory, they realize that the Birdcage is not cutting it up, which Franky realizes is because of it being made of Seastone. Zoro and the samurai then arrive, and Franky tells them that the center of town is the other way. However, Zoro reveals his intention to stop the Birdcage, leaving the dwarves in awe. As the three swordsmen fly away, Franky thinks about their plan and gets an idea.
Meanwhile, Luffy hovers in midair and looks at Doflamingo, who is still lying on the ground and pondering Luffy's Gear 4 capabilities. Luffy decides to finish Doflamingo off now in order to avoid overusing Gear 4, and Doflamingo gets up and remarks that it must take a lot for Luffy to maintain that form. Luffy retracts both fists into his forearms to unleash a powerful attack, but Doflamingo suddenly blocks it by creating two waves of string from the ground. Luffy is shocked by Doflamingo's sudden move, and the Shichibukai reveals that his Devil Fruit has awakened, allowing him to turn his surroundings into string. Doflamingo turns more and more buildings into string and presses his attack on Luffy, who comments that this makes Doflamingo's fruit no longer look like a Paramecia, and is unable to overcome the constant barrages of string.
The citizens of Dressrosa continue running from the Birdcage, but those who are unable to run properly find the cage catching up to them, and a mother has lost her son. People are trapped under rubble, and medics continue wheeling people out of a hospital, begging the running citizens to help to no avail. One man decides to sit on the ground, giving up hope that they would be saved. Suddenly, Doldo broadcasts himself to the entire island. He reminds them that the shrinking Birdcage was not a dream, saying that they had been under a cage ever since Doflamingo had taken over ten years ago. However, every member of the Donquixote Pirates except Doflamingo himself had been taken down, and Luffy was currently fighting Doflamingo. Doldo tells the citizens that their nightmare would soon end, and urges them to keep running from the Birdcage no matter their condition, as there was still hope. This galvanizes the people, and the handicapped begin running again despite their ailments. Citizens, Marines, and pirates alike start helping free people from rubble and carting off the hospitalized people, knowing they would be saved as Luffy continues his battle with Doflamingo.

Encouraged by Riku Doldo III's speech and by Luffy overpowering Doflamingo, the citizens of Dressrosa run away from the shrinking Birdcage in hopes of protecting their lives. Meanwhile, Doflamingo continues turning building into string and sending them after Luffy. The pirate struggles to navigate them and get near Doflamingo, who is nursing his internal wounds and intent on finishing their battle. Luffy screams Doflamingo's name, and the Shichibukai nearly wraps him up in a mass of string, sending him bouncing uncontrollably across the street. Luffy continues dodging the strings, knowing he is running out of time. Doflamingo turns a large portion of town into strings, shocking the citizens, and directs them all to Luffy. Luffy barely manages to dodge the incoming strings and flies toward Doflamingo in anger, covering his head in Busoshoku Haki. Retracting his head into his neck, Luffy headbutts Doflamingo, sending him flying a large distance. Doflamingo manages to recover quickly and wrap a string around Luffy's arm, throwing the pirate into the ground. However, Luffy recovers and prepares to unleash a final blow, retracting both hands into his forearms. He hits Doflamingo with both palms, and the force of the blow sends Doflamingo flying into the palace plateau.
The citizens, pirates, Marines, and gladiators react in shock to Luffy's move, as the pirate slowly falls down to the ground. The dust at the site of Doflamingo's impact clears, showing the unmoving Shichibukai. The citizens start celebrating Doflamingo's defeat while staring at Luffy, and one of them recognizes who the pirate is. However, one person is doubtful, as he does not resemble the person on newspapers, with another person thinking he was much taller. The citizens wonder about Luffy's constant bouncing and ask if he can stop, which he denies. Meanwhile, Gatz stares at Luffy and realizes that he is Lucy, the Block C winner in the Corrida Colosseum. Cavendish also celebrates Doflamingo's defeat, but Law realizes that the Birdcage is still up, meaning Doflamingo is still conscious. Luffy realizes this as well, and leaps back up into the air in order to give Doflamingo a final blow. He flies toward Doflamingo and readies a punch, but Gear 4's time limit expires before he can throw it, and the air exuded sends him crashing into the ground.
The citizens stare in shock at Luffy lying on the ground, and on the palace rooftop, Jesus Burgess laughs in delight. Burgess jumps from the roof and bounces on one of the spires on the Flower Field, shocking Cavendish, as he falls down to the streets below. Koala marvels at how far the pirate can jump as she calls Sabo on the Den Den Mushi, but gets no answer. Burgess lands on the street, and the citizens recognize him in fear as captain of the first ship of the Blackbeard Pirates. Burgess shouts his intentions to steal the Gomu Gomu no Mi from Luffy, who attempts to get up, but is too weak. The citizens stare at him and wonder if they should help him, but one citizen says that he is a pirate and could not be trusted. Some citizens are still willing to trust Luffy, and they ask him what happened to Doflamingo. Suddenly, the ground around Doflamingo begins to crack as the citizens realize that the Shichibukai is still conscious, and they run in fear. Luffy attempts to stand and face Doflamingo, but falls to the ground again as Doflamingo sees his fallen opponent and smiles in delight.

Doflamingo causes part of the cliff around him to fall away, and the citizens of Dressrosa run from the falling rubble. They run past Luffy, who struggles to stay off the ground, and some stop by him, but run away due to not wanting to get involved with Doflamingo. Luffy falls to the ground once again, but is suddenly grabbed by Gatz, who recognizes him as the gladiator Lucy from Corrida Colosseum and asks Luffy if he remembers him. As Doflamingo causes more shockwaves in the palace plateau, Gatz asks if Luffy could continue his battle with Doflamingo, and the pirate replies that he needs ten minutes, as he could not use Busoshoku Haki for ten minutes after using Gear 4. Doflamingo frees himself from the cliff face and gleefully looks at the fallen Luffy as he keeps repairing his internal organs, saying he had returned.
Gatz asks Luffy if he would free them from the Birdcage after ten minutes as Doflamingo descends to the streets. Luffy replies that if he could regain his Haki he would finish off Doflamingo in one blow, and Gatz calls a horde of gladiators toward him. These were the gladiators who went after the bounties Doflamingo put on Luffy and his allies instead of helping them, and Mummy, Meadows, and Rolling Logan apologize for being blinded by money. They promise to hold Doflamingo off while Luffy regained his Haki, and as Doflamingo reaches the ground, some of the gladiators confront him. While they do this, Gatz and the remaining gladiators prepare to run away from Doflamingo. As they run, however, Jesus Burgess bursts through a building and brandishes his dagger, eager to kill Luffy. Gatz and the gladiators are frightened by his arrival, when suddenly he is kicked away by Sabo.
A short time earlier, Sabo was running toward Luffy, having known that his Haki was fading. In the present, Sabo holds his pipe to Burgess' neck as the gladiators recognize him. Sabo tells Burgess that he is in the Revolutionary Army and Luffy is his brother, and Burgess realizes that someone else said the same thing, which Sabo reveals to be Ace. Burgess gleefully remembers how Blackbeard defeated Ace on Banaro Island two years ago and started the Summit War. Sabo says that Ace made his own choices, but from now on he would be protecting Luffy. Amused, Burgess says that he has no business with Sabo or the Revolutionaries, as he sights Luffy but Sabo questions that statement as he lights the end of his finger on fire. Burgess realizes in shock that he was the one that ate the Mera Mera no Mi, and Sabo tells Luffy to go ahead and deal with Doflamingo while he takes care of Burgess. Luffy too realizes that Sabo ate the Mera Mera no Mi, and Sabo replies that he would not have let anyone else have it as the brothers smile at each other.
Gatz and the gladiators run off while Sabo confronts Burgess. Burgess swings his elbow at Sabo, the force of the blow toppling the building in front of him, but Sabo avoids the blow by turning into flames. Sabo hits Burgess twice, then combines his Devil Fruit and Ryusoken to send Burgess spinning far away while being roasted with flames. The gladiators are shocked that he did this to one of the Four Emperors' subordinates, and Sabo realizes that Burgess' goal was to hunt down Devil Fruit eaters as he heads toward Burgess. Meanwhile, Luffy tells a confused Gatz that Sabo took his place during the Colosseum finals. Gatz says that that was against the rules, but he was glad that the fruit ended up in their hands. Suddenly, an explosion occurs near Doflamingo's location, and Gatz looks back in shock as he sees Doflamingo massacring the gladiators with his awakened Devil Fruit abilities. Some gladiators stare in astonishment at Doflamingo, wondering how he could fight them this easily despite his injuries. Doflamingo replies that he did not need effort to deal with them and angrily tells Luffy to come out.

The citizens of Dressrosa continue running from the Birdcage and Doflamingo, but become very crowded as the amount of space they have grows smaller and smaller. Some wonder why they are not going downtown to the center of the cage, but are told that a battle is going on there as Doflamingo continues attacking his opponents with awakened string. The citizens cry out to Riku Doldo III for help as he stands on a piece of rubble. On the palace plateau, the Corrida Colosseum gladiators have moved their fallen allies, who show no signs of stirring. Suddenly, a glowing orb falls down onto Hajrudin's chest, causing him to open his eyes. 
Meanwhile, Zoro, Kin'emon, and Kanjuro reach the Birdcage, and Zoro covers two of his swords in Busoshoku Haki. He clashes both swords against the Birdcage, shocking the samurai, who consider stopping the Birdcage to be impossible. However, Zoro tells them to stop talking and join him, and the samurai cover their swords in Haki and clash against the Birdcage. By the SMILE Factory, Franky tells the dwarves to push against the factory, as it would not be destroyed due to being made of Seastone, and the dwarves comply. Meanwhile, Robin talks with Viola, who reveals that Zoro is trying to stop the Birdcage.
At the south side of the palace plateau, the remaining Donquixote Pirates stand on a toppled building, preventing the citizens from going past them. The citizens beg for them to let them head up, as it is the safest place, but the lead pirate says that Doflamingo had condemned the citizens to die and shoots any who speak up against him. Suddenly, the gladiators arrive and defeat all the Donquixote Pirates, including the fallen ones. Kyros tells the citizens to head out, but Sai tells anyone able-bodied to come and follow him. Meanwhile, Doflamingo heads away from the carnage he has created and says that if Luffy would not come out, he would bring him out. Doflamingo holds his arm upward and clenches his fist, causing the Birdcage to start moving faster. The citizens know this and run in panic, but have difficulty due to being packed so tight. Doldo notices this as well, and the citizens beg him to help, but all he can do is despair and beg Doflamingo to stop.
Sabo and Burgess continue their clash, and Burgess attacks with Busoshoku Haki, but Sabo counters by engulfing his staff in flames. Sabo then covers his legs in flames and kicks Burgess before smashing his staff into the pirate's chest. Burgess struggles to overcome the heat of the flames as he gets back up, and Sabo notices the Birdcage constricting faster. Viola and Law notice this as well, and Zoro, Franky, the samurai, and the dwarves struggle to keep up with the increased speed. Suddenly, Fujitora notices bright orbs falling around him. It is revealed that Luffy will regain his Haki in four minutes, but the Birdcage will now fully close in three. The remaining combatants against Doflamingo stage another charge as Doflamingo walks away from them, but an annoyed Doflamingo attacks them with strings.
Meanwhile, Robin and the gladiators push Bartolomeo's barrier against the Birdcage, and Robin wonders how the fallen gladiators are now standing. Leo reveals that it was a result of Mansherry's Chiyupopo, dandelions formed from her tears which she is dropping all across the country. Touching one will heal injuries, but only temporarily. Meanwhile, Gatz continues carrying Luffy away from Doflamingo, and his aides begin wondering if they had enough time. However, Gatz replies that he would never let an injured fighter go into battle, when suddenly Law teleports in front of him. Gatz explains to Law how Luffy needs to regain his Haki before the Birdcage closes.

The citizens of Dressrosa are bewildered when their injuries are healed, but only care about getting away from the shrinking Birdcage. Suddenly, Hack and Usopp appear above them on a piece of rubble, and the citizens are shocked to see Usopp, wondering what he did to receive his five-star bounty. Usopp says that his friends are pushing the Birdcage and tells any able-bodied citizen to go help them. The stunned citizens say that such a feat is impossible, but Usopp gets angry and tells them to go, and the citizens become scared of his perceived power and obey his orders. Usopp wonders if they are really pushing the Birdcage and asks Viola to confirm it, but realizes that she is suddenly not with them anymore. He then decides to go meet with the rest of the citizens.
As Luffy continues recovering with Law guarding him, Doflamingo slashes Spartan in the chest. With all the gladiators defeated, Doflamingo shouts for Luffy to show himself. However, Spartan grabs Doflamingo's leg, saying that he was still alive, but Doflamingo shoots him and steps on his head. Some other gladiators get back up in order to distract Doflamingo as long as possible, with one of them grabbing the Shichibukai from behind in order to keep him immobilized. As the others rush toward him, however, Doflamingo stabs all of them with sheets of string. Viola watches this as she runs through the city, and Doflamingo's brutality visibly stuns her. Meanwhile, a large crowd forms in the center of town, but Rebecca tells the citizens to head for the palace since the center of the Birdcage is moving in that direction. 
The citizens comply, but Rebecca knows that as long as Doflamingo remains alive, the efforts to stop the Birdcage may be in vain. Picking up a sword left by one of the fallen gladiators, she decides to confront Doflamingo herself and try to bring an end to the cage. However, she sees Viola confronting Doflamingo, and Viola asks Rebecca why she came. She tells her niece that she could not face Kyros or Scarlett if Rebecca was killed and says that as a former officer of the Donquixote Pirates it was her responsibility to bring Doflamingo down. Viola casts off her cape and hairpins as she brandishes a knife and prepares to engage in a fight to the death. She rushes at Doflamingo, but the Shichibukai easily dodges her stabs and kicks before kicking her to the ground.
At the SMILE Factory, Franky and the dwarves continue pushing on it, while nearby, Zoro, Kin'emon, and Kanjuro keep pushing the Birdcage with their swords. Zoro thinks that it is slowing down, which Kanjuro initially agrees with, but the samurai quickly changes his mind. Suddenly, Fujitora walks forward, shocking Zoro, and the admiral unsheathes his sword. Zoro thinks he is about to attack, but Fujitora instead clashes his sword against the Birdcage, saying he would do what little he could to help. A procession of Marines then arrives, with the ones who could use Haki joining Fujitora and the ones who could not joining Franky and the dwarves at the factory. As the Marines help push the factory, nearby citizens are encouraged to push it as well, and more citizens help the gladiators push Bartolomeo's barrier on the other side of the island. Kyros recalls telling Rebecca to guide the citizens. Eventually, their titanic effort causes the cage to briefly come to a standstill. However, it quickly starts moving again, and they resume pushing, but now have hope that it can be stopped. Riku Doldo III and Tank Lepanto join the effort at the SMILE Factory, with the former king praising the citizens' efforts.
Viola stands up and attacks Doflamingo with whale-shaped tears, but Doflamingo easily blocks the attack and grabs her by the wrist. He knocks her to the ground, saying he would have no mercy even though she was once in his crew because he does not tolerate betrayal. Doflamingo immobilizes Viola with strings and hauls her upward before turning his attention to Rebecca and taking control of her as well. Rebecca grows more and more frightened as Doflamingo moves her toward them against her will, forcing her to brandish her sword with the intention of attacking Viola. Meanwhile, the Birdcage starts slicing up the King's Plateau, and as Gatz climbs up a cliff he wonders how much time Luffy needs before he regains his Haki. It is revealed that Luffy will regain his Haki in 60 seconds, which is when the Birdcage will fully close.

The citizens of Dressrosa run toward the palace plateau and help each other climb it, and Gatz climbs up a different part of the cliff. Meanwhile, Zoro, the samurai, and the Marines push on the Birdcage with their swords, all of them convicted to help Luffy and to honor their organizations. Franky, the dwarves, and various citizens continue pushing the SMILE Factory, and the gladiators push Bartolomeo's barrier. Bartolomeo reminds them that they are inching closer to death and it is up to them to prevent this, but they reply that he does not need to tell them this. Sai is proud of his comrades for their spirit, and Hajrudin states that he does not want to die here because he has a dream he wants to achieve. Bartolomeo then says to keep pushing until their bodies break. Meanwhile, Mansherry continues flying over the city releasing her Chiyupopo into the air, and hopes that everyone will be safe. At the palace plateau, Gatz pulls himself up on a platform, breathing heavily from the effort.
Down below, Doflamingo continues forcing Rebecca to head toward them with the intention of making her kill Viola. Rebecca grows more and more distressed at her powerlessness, and Viola begs Doflamingo to stop, to no avail. Suddenly, Gatz's voice rings out across the island, causing Doflamingo and the citizens to look up at him in bewilderment. The citizens recognize him and tell him to stop fooling around, but Gatz tells them to remember a star that fought in the Corrida Colosseum earlier that day. Cavendish thinks that he is the star and prepares to head out, but suddenly realizes that Law is gone. Gatz talks about Luffy's accomplishments in the Colosseum, which the citizens remember, and reveals that the star was indeed Lucy, or as he was better known, Monkey D. Luffy. Gatz acknowledges that the country may not be so quick to trust a pirate after what happened with Doflamingo, but assures them that Luffy is not like Doflamingo. He says that Luffy was called their hope by Riku Doldo III and earlier fought Doflamingo to within an inch of defeat, which causes some of the citizens to place their hope in Luffy and trust him despite apparently being betrayed ten years ago. Gatz follows up by telling the crowd that despite Luffy being knocked out, he promised earlier that he would defeat Doflamingo in one blow, which causes the crowd to cheer.
The fighters pushing the Birdcage react gleefully to the proclamation, and Zoro states that they could not hold out much longer otherwise. As the crowd continues cheering, Gatz builds up his courage and turns to Doflamingo, condemning his actions and proclaiming that this is where he will meet his punishment. Gatz trembles, not caring what Doflamingo did to him, but only desires the Shichibukai to get away from Viola and Rebecca. Gatz congratulates the people on Dressrosa for helping hold off the Birdcage and says that their salvation would come shortly. The people pushing the Birdcage renew their efforts, but the ones revived by the Chiyupopo begin collapsing due to its effects wearing off. Leo states that it will not work twice, and Mansherry begins crying in sadness that she gave the people false hope. However, Kabu tells her that countless people would have died if it were not for her efforts. Mansherry begins smiling again as more people run to help stop the Birdcage, and Gatz proclaims that Luffy will return in ten seconds.
Encouraged by Gatz, the citizens start chanting "Lucy" as Luffy attempts to get up. When the countdown reaches two, Doflamingo impales Gatz with a sheet of string, causing him to collapse. However, Gatz urges the people to keep counting, and his Den Den Mushi speaker falls and rings out as the countdown reaches zero. Nothing happens, and the crowd wonders where Luffy is. Doflamingo states that Luffy is not coming and forces Rebecca to run toward her aunt and kill her. Viola tells Rebecca to close her eyes and pretend this was a bad dream; she would not hold a grudge on her. Viola silently apologizes to Rebecca as her niece begins breaking down, but before she can land the blow, Luffy appears in Viola's place and takes the blow with a Haki-imbued forehead, which snaps the blade in half. Viola appears in Luffy's place due to Law switching the two of them, and Gatz alerts the people of Dressrosa that Luffy has returned as they cheer on the Straw Hat Captain. Luffy then turns to face Doflamingo once again.

The people on Dressrosa cheer Luffy on as he returns to battle Doflamingo, and Gatz tells him to knock the Shichibukai out in one blow. Doflamingo commends Luffy's entrance but knows that he just got his Haki back and is likely at his limits. Luffy replies that Doflamingo is also near defeat, and Doflamingo hits Luffy with his string pillars, sending him crashing to the ground. Rebecca turns toward him, only for Doflamingo to attack her next. However, Law switches Rebecca out with a rock, taking her to his location as Doflamingo destroys the rock. Doflamingo notices Law and tells him to watch as his hope gets crushed. Doflamingo turns the ground Luffy is lying on into string, bouncing him around before binding his body with string. Doflamingo then summons many blades of string and sends them all at Luffy, who struggles to block them with Busoshoku Haki. However, one of the blades succeeds in impaling Luffy, and Doflamingo asks him if he really regained his Haki as he sends Luffy flying into a rock face before hitting him with all his string blades.
Gatz and the citizens are stunned by the battle, wondering what happened. However, the Birdcage remains up, and the gladiators, pirates, and Marines continue pushing it with the hope that Luffy would hurry and defeat Doflamingo. Meanwhile, Luffy lies down inside a cave created by the impact, and cannot get up. Suddenly, Doflamingo attaches strings to him and forces him to stand up and walk toward him. As Doflamingo controls Luffy like a puppet, Luffy remembers sitting at a campfire with Silvers Rayleigh during his training. He had lost to his opponent and barely escaped death, and Rayleigh asked him what happened to his Kong Gun. Luffy replied that this opponent was too big for the Kong Gun to work on, and Rayleigh told him that he needed to come up with something else. As he walks toward Doflamingo, Luffy realizes that the Shichibukai was also too powerful for the Kong Gun.
Doflamingo tells Luffy that they should have all just stayed in his cage and submitted to his manipulation, saying that humans should only live when a divine being like him manipulates them. He says that he would not have had to carry out this massacre if they had not cut their puppet strings, but Luffy has had enough with his talk. The Birdcage cuts farther into the King's Plateau and continues cutting through buildings, and Luffy's allies tell him to hurry up. Leo grows worried about what will happen if the Birdcage keeps advancing, but Robin tells him to trust in Luffy. Meanwhile, Luffy raises up his arm and blows into it, reactivating Gear 4 and breaking Doflamingo's control on him.
Although shocked that Luffy broke his strings, Doflamingo wonders how long Luffy can maintain Gear 4 in this state. Luffy then takes to the air, which amuses Doflamingo as he and his strings rise up and follow him. Doflamingo catches up to Luffy, expressing annoyance that the pirate was above him and promising to drag him down and control him like a puppet again. Luffy replies that he felt like he was suffocating due to Doflamingo manipulating everyone, and the Shichibukai says that the people here were born as trash and are meant to be manipulated. Luffy tells him to be quiet as he retracts his forearm, and Doflamingo creates a web to protect himself. Luffy then blows air into his other arm, making the retracted arm even bigger, as he remembers sharing his idea for an improved Kong Gun with Rayleigh. Doflamingo is surprised by this as he sends 16 bullets of string at Luffy, who unleashes his new attack, the King Kong Punch, downward. The clash between Luffy and the strings is powerful enough to cause ripples in the water and be felt by the citizens below, and everyone on Dressrosa cheers Luffy on as he breaks through Doflamingo's attack and defense before hitting Doflamingo himself. The force of the punch sends Doflamingo flying into the ground, with the impact tearing apart the city, and Doflamingo falls down into the underground harbor. Law remembers Corazon telling him about how the Family of D. is the sworn enemy of the gods as Doflamingo's shattered glasses fall away and Luffy hovers in the air victorious.

The citizens of Dressrosa run away from the parts of the city sent flying by Doflamingo's impact with the ground, and Rebecca stares up at Luffy in awe. She remembers meeting Luffy in the Corrida Colosseum by the statue of Kyros and later revealing her intention to kill Doflamingo at the prisoner gladiators' cell. Next to her, Viola remembers submitting herself to Doflamingo ten years ago in order to save her father's life, and when the Straw Hats came to Dressrosa ten years later, she told him that she would trust in the Straw Hats despite them being pirates. Luffy's Gear 4 form wears off, with the exhaled air blowing him all over the place. Law switches Luffy out with a rock, teleporting the pirate to his location. Viola and Rebecca are relieved to see that Luffy is fine.
In the underground harbor, a defeated Doflamingo lies motionless on the ground, with his shattered sunglasses next to him. The citizens of Dressrosa notice that no one is in the air anymore, and they tell Gatz to announce the winner. Gatz picks up his Den Den Mushi despite his attendants telling him not to exert himself, and tells everyone to look up. They see in amazement that the Birdcage is disappearing from the tip downward, and Gatz asks if they are seeing their freedom from the Birdcage or from Doflamingo's domination. Two men remember being forced to work as toys in the underground harbor, and another remembers his girlfriend not recognizing him after he was turned into a toy. The Birdcage disappears completely, causing the people pushing it (except Nico Robin, Fujitora, and the Marines) to fall forward. Giving a final push, the dwarves cause the SMILE Factory to topple over. The combatants look up in wonder at the sun emerging through the nonexistent cage.
Gatz gives his audience the details of the battle and the combatants on both sides, but struggles through his tears to announce the winner. Riku Doldo III remembers Doflamingo tricking the people and usurping the throne ten years ago and begins to cry, much like Rebecca who cries onto Luffy's face as she remembers Luffy's promise to save Kyros and defeat Doflamingo. Finally, Gatz proclaims that the winner is Luffy, causing everyone on Dressrosa to cheer. As he embraces the Tontattas, Franky remembers how they and Kyros were working to expose Doflamingo's secret agendas and bring down the Shichibukai. As this goes on, Kyros heads off, remembering how he lost his leg and was turned into a toy, causing everyone he loved to forget about him and preventing him from feeling Scarlett's warmth as she died. After being unable to cry for ten years as a toy, Kyros bawls as the people rejoice and cry among the rubble despite their country having collapsed.

The citizens of Dressrosa continue celebrating Doflamingo's defeat as Gatz tearfully states that he never expected Doflamingo to be defeated like this before hanging up his Den Den Mushi. Sabo is happily viewing the emerging sun as well, and walks away from a defeated Burgess. Burgess wonders why Sabo is not going to finish him off, but Sabo feels no need to. However, Burgess tells Sabo that Ace said something to them during his defeat on Banaro Island as Sabo's Den Den Mushi rings. His fellow members of the Revolutionary Army impatiently wait in the underground harbor for him to pick up their call, but one states that Sabo only answers when he feels like it. Burgess tells Sabo that Ace told them not to tell his brother about his defeat, as he knew what the Marines would do to him. However, Sabo grabs Burgess' head and places it in a tight grip as he replies that he knows that already and is not interested in revenge. Burgess holds his dagger behind his back, determined to get the Mera Mera no Mi lest he lose his reputation, and questions Sabo about the regret he felt for not being around to try to save Ace before attacking the revolutionary with his dagger. However, Sabo easily dodges the blow and states that that is why he did not want any more regrets before incinerating Burgess with Hiken. As Burgess flies far away, Sabo answers his Den Den Mushi, where Koala reveals that they are ready to go and are just waiting for him. Sabo asks if she got the list, which she affirms, but hangs up abruptly, causing Koala to punch the revolutionary holding the Den Den Mushi.
Meanwhile, the Marines scour Dressrosa, looking for the Donquixote Pirates. All of them are located, sans Bellamy, and the Marines are warned that many of the officers are Devil Fruit users and told to bind them with seastone. As they watch all the lower-ranked pirates being led away, Sai and Chinjao remark that this marks the true end of Doflamingo's crew, and Sai tells Baby 5 to stay with him, which she gladly complies with. As the Marines bind Doflamingo with seastone chains, one Marine asks another if they had reported this to Marine Headquarters. The other responds that Admiral Fujitora actually told them to not file a report yet. Meanwhile, Maynard stands on a pile of rubble above ground and is told that his Den Den Mushi is ready, and Maynard tells his men to take another one and follow Fujitora like they were ordered. As Fujitora walks through the streets with a platoon of Marines, Maynard broadcasts himself to Applenine Island and two other islands close to Dressrosa. He reveals that the wreckage he is standing on is what Doflamingo did to Dressrosa today, and tells the people on the neighboring islands to spread the word about the Shichibukai's actions.
Elsewhere, the citizens of Dressrosa surround Riku Doldo III and beg him to return to the throne, having found out that they were tricked ten years ago. Doldo adamantly refuses, saying that his family's pacifist philosophy would only lead to ruin if something like Doflamingo comes around again. However, the people respond that they will willing take that as well as the poverty they used to be in in order to regain the peace they once had. Suddenly, Elizabello II arrives, saying that as a fighting king this cry for peace irked him. However, he tells Doldo that he wants him to return to the throne and act tough in order to turn away opposing countries like he once did before. Suddenly, Fujitora and the Marines reach Doldo, and the Admiral's arrival shocks the citizens of Dressrosa and the neighboring islands watching the broadcast of this. Fujitora tells Doldo that the World Government allowed Doflamingo to take over Dressrosa because he was a Shichibukai. Fujitora and the Marines then fall prostrate before Doldo in apology for their actions, shocking everyone watching. The people on the neighboring islands record this event, and soon the news is distributed across the world revealing that Doflamingo has been taken down by Luffy and Law's pirate alliance.

The people on Dressrosa and the neighboring islands receiving the Marines' broadcast are still bewildered by Admiral Fujitora's prostration before Riku Doldo III. Doldo tells Fujitora to get up and asks if he really wanted the whole world to see this, but the Admiral refuses, saying that he left the Straw Hats to do everything in hopes that they would succeed. The Marines had done nothing because of Doflamingo's Shichibukai status, and Fujitora wants to make it clear that this was not the Marines' victory.
Meanwhile, Usopp runs through the streets with Robin and Bartolomeo, looking for Luffy. He runs into Zoro, Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and Franky, who note that he is standing up once again, which Usopp claims to be from the excitement of Luffy's victory. On a nearby rooftop sit Luffy, Law, Rebecca, and Viola, and the latter states that they should let the Straw Hats know where they are. Elsewhere, Kyros faces all the Tontattas that had taken part in the fight against Doflamingo. He thanks them for their work and disbands the anti-Doflamingo army before saluting them, which causes them to cry tears of joy. Kyros reminds them that they are the guardian deities of Dressrosa and still had work to do to make Dressrosa beautiful once again. The Tontattas all begin to cheer and embrace Kyros. Meanwhile, the Marines have gotten back up and the transmission has been cut off, and Riku tells Tank Lepanto to shelter the pirates and homeless people in the palace.
In Mary Geoise, Sakazuki confronts the Five Elders and questions why Doflamingo's deception earlier in the day had to take place, saying that it brought shame to him as the Fleet Admiral. The Five Elders silenced him, saying that his pride did not matter and that they left the situation to Cipher Pol. Sakazuki remarks that the Five Elders are acting like puppets of the World Nobles, and they angrily bring up Kuzan, stating that him joining the Blackbeard Pirates was a great stain on the Marines. Right then, another Marine comes running up, reporting that Doflamingo had been defeated and Dressrosa is currently in a state of destruction. Sakazuki and the Five Elders are appalled that Luffy and Law managed to do such a thing.
As the news of Doflamingo's defeat spreads across the world, a king of a country states that with this event, they no longer had access to weapons, and that they would have to surrender. White flags go up, and on the sea, a pirate crew also laments their access to weapons ending. One pirate decides to go to Dressrosa and get them himself, but is reminded that a Marine Admiral is still there. Another pirate crew is upset their Devil Fruit access has been cut off. Meanwhile, a gang laments that their access to SMILE has been cut off, and they stab the newspaper photos of Luffy and Law in anger. Somewhere at sea, Tsuru converses with a Marine Inspector General about Doflamingo's defeat, and the Inspector General offers her okaki.
On another island, Jewelry Bonney turns into an old woman and steals a piece of pizza, but turns into a child immediately after, causing the angry shopkeeper to overlook her. Bonney reads the news, saying that she is glad she is in the same generation as Luffy and Law. On a sky island, Urouge is recovering from his wounds as his crewmates tend to him. Some of them race toward him, revealing that someone is coming. Urouge blows this off, saying that they are on a lonely sky island. Suddenly, the ground begins to shake as large footsteps fall on it, and Urouge watches in shock as a giant man with horns approaches him. On the Big Mom Pirates' ship, Capone Bege takes note of Luffy and Law's actions before saying to his crewmates that they would get Caesar Clown back at any cost. At the Kid Pirates' hideout, the allied pirates Eustass Kid, Killer, Scratchmen Apoo, and Basil Hawkins discuss Law and Luffy's victory, realizing that Doflamingo is connected to Kaidou and that by defeating the former the alliance seeks to take down the latter. Killer is glad that the alliances' targets are different, as their alliance is targeting Shanks. On a wintery island, some pirates under Kaidou ask X Drake about Doflamingo killing his father. Drake affirms this, but states that he does not hold a grudge. The pirates then shout to Kaidou about Doflamingo's defeat, knowing he would be angry that SMILE production has ceased.
On Dressrosa, Fujitora argues with Sakazuki over Den Den Mushi, and the force of their voices causes the nearby Marines to tremble in fear. Sakazuki reprimands Fujitora for not reporting to him first, but Fujitora replies that Sakazuki would have altered the story in some way. He remembers speaking with Smoker on a ship, with the Vice Admiral having told him about how Luffy took down Crocodile two years ago but that the World Government credited him instead in order to save face. In the present, a recovering Smoker reads the news and expresses his relief to Tashigi that Fujitora managed to do what he did not. The giant children then peek into the door, wanting food and wondering when they would get to Vegapunk, and Tashigi tells them that the journey will take a few more days. On Dressrosa, Sakazuki argues that cover-ups were needed in order to save face for the government, but Fujitora replies that their credibility is nonexistent if it could be shattered that easily, and the Marines get scared about Fujitora's attitude toward the Fleet Admiral. Sakazuki then orders Fujitora to capture Luffy and Law, or he would never be allowed on a Marine base again. As a sleeping Luffy is placed on the back of one of Kanjuro's birds, Fujitora replies that that is what he wanted to hear.

The Straw Hats and other fighters resting at Kyros's house.On a hill in Carta lies Kyros' house, where Kyros, the Straw Hats, Law, Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and Bellamy rest and recover from their injuries. Kyros explains why he lives here and offers the group anything they may need, and Kin'emon asks why Bellamy is with them, to which Law replies that Luffy knows him so he brought him along. Kyros, Usopp, and Law fall asleep from exhaustion, and the door of the house begins opening. Zoro tenses up at the intrusion, but the person entering turns out to be Sabo, who throws Zoro a drink. Robin happily greets him as Zoro asks how she knows him to which she introduces Sabo as Luffy's brother which surprises Franky and Zoro. Sabo approaches Luffy, and Robin goes to wake him up, but Sabo states that she does not need to do that. Franky asks if he is leaving soon, which Sabo affirms, revealing that CP0 is heading for them. The Straw Hats prepare to leave soon as well, but wonder why Luffy never told them about having another brother. Sabo reveals that he was presumed deceased for a long time after getting into an accident.
Twelve years ago, in Goa Kingdom, a ten-year-old Sabo asked about the country's plan to set fire to Gray Terminal. However, he was shocked to receive callous remarks about a plan that would kill many people. Sabo ran to warn Ace and Luffy, but he ended up beaten and lying in an alleyway. He was approached by Monkey D. Dragon, and told the mysterious man about his contempt for the town and his status. Feeling trapped, Sabo decided to set out to sea, but encountered a ship much larger than his small vessel. The large ship contained the World Noble Jalmack, who shot Sabo's ship with a bazooka due to it crossing his path. Sabo desperately tried putting out the flames, but the second shot completely destroyed his ship, sending his tattered hat flying into the water.
Barely alive and with an injury around his left eye, Sabo sunk into the depths of the ocean, but was saved in the nick of time as Dragon grabbed his hand and pulled him out of the water. On a ship belonging to the Revolutionary Army, Emporio Ivankov and the revolutionaries grew anxious about when Dragon would return. Dragon then arrived with Sabo in his arms, and the ship's doctor was called. Sabo eventually woke up surrounded by revolutionaries. One of them asked if his name was Sabo due to it being written on his possessions, but Sabo had no memory of his name or anything at all. Another revolutionary decided that they should take him home and find his parents, but Sabo refused, having a bad feeling about his family despite not remembering them. Ivankov stated that they can't let him stay here, and Sabo replied that they could take him somewhere else. Dragon and Bartholomew Kuma then approached, and Ivankov asked Dragon what they should do.
In the present day, laborers work on rebuilding the palace as the Corrida Colosseum gladiators are taken to a room inside, with the worker promising them asylum from the Marines and a doctor. Boo wonders if there will be a banquet, but is told that it will be later. The gladiators prepare to go to sleep, especially Cavendish, but Bartolomeo knows what will happen if he goes to sleep. He tells people to bring him a chain, which he uses to wrap around Cavendish, telling the outraged gladiator that they will see a monster if they do not do this.
At Kyros' house, the Straw Hats ask Sabo if that was how he joined the Revolutionary Army, and Sabo replies that it was sort of like that. 12 years ago, Sabo trained on Baltigo with several children under Hack, but broke off from the exercise. Sabo told Hack that he was going to train himself before running off, and Hack told Ivankov that Sabo had a lot of fighting experience which his body still remembered. The days passed, with Sabo training and studying intensely. One day, Sabo fought Hack and succeeded in removing the fish-man's belt, causing his pants to fall down. He was then approached by Kuma, and was excited to fight him next, but was easily blown away. Meanwhile, Ace and Luffy sat on the coast Dawn Island, promising to get stronger and become pirates at age 17. Two years later, Sabo peeled potatoes with Koala, but was exasperated when they were given another box. He decided to break into the apples and eat them, but was reprimanded by Koala. Later, he fought Kuma once again, who sent him flying into a pile of boxes. However, Sabo discovered a pipe inside the wreckage, and he used it to vault off Kuma and attack Dragon. Dragon avoided Sabo's blow and knocked him out, but commended his fighting ability.
Seven years later, Ace set out to sea to become a pirate, and the Revolutionary Army is engaged in battle with a military fortress. Hack and Koala sat helpless in the trenches, wondering what the people sneaking in first were doing. Right then, Sabo called them, briefly stating that he would figure something out before hanging up. Sabo then appeared right in front of the entrance and ran toward it despite enemy fire. He hardened his arm with Busoshoku Haki and broke down the door, entering the fortress with ease. Sabo dispatched the enemy soldiers as the other revolutionaries freed the captured citizens and allies, and as he was surrounded, Sabo completely destroyed the fortress by using Ryusoken. At Baltigo, Sabo was commended for the victory, and a revolutionary talked about a rookie around Sabo's age who refused to join the Shichibukai. He began to say Ace's name, but Sabo completed it, stunning them. However, Sabo could not remember what he said. Three years later, Luffy headed out to sea and faced Lord of the Coast as a 20-year-old Sabo went to sea as well. In the present, the Straw Hats ask Sabo how he regained his memory, and Sabo grows tense as he reveals that Ace's death reawakened it.

Two years ago, a 20-year-old Sabo sat atop the mast of a ship, when he suddenly saw faint outlines of Monkey D. Luffy and Portgas D. Ace as children standing with their backs to him, though due to his amnesia he could not tell who they were. Luffy and Ace said Sabo's name and turned to face him, but Sabo was snapped out of his vision by Koala, who was excited that they would be returning to Baltigo for the first time in a month. Inside the headquarters of the Revolutionary Army, the revolutionaries said that Sabo and Koala came at the right time as everyone was reading about the outcome of the Summit War of Marineford. After it was wondered whether Emporio Ivankov was all right, a revolutionary revealed that Whitebeard and Portgas D. Ace had been killed, which shocked Sabo greatly. While Dragon confirmed to his subordinates that Luffy was indeed his son, Sabo began sweating as he read the news report about Ace's death. He remembered being with Ace as a child, as Ace declared that he would become Pirate King regardless of what anyone thought of him, and Sabo began crying and bending over in shock. He then remembered the time when he, Ace, and Luffy exchanged sake cups and became brothers, and his convulsions were starting to attract the other revolutionaries' attention. Sabo finally let out a large scream as he regained his memories and realized who Ace truly was, and collapsed in the process as the other revolutionaries ran to him.
After having another vision of Ace as a child, Sabo woke up with Koala and Hack at his side, and Koala began sobbing as she revealed how worried she was due to Sabo sleeping for three straight days. Sabo revealed that he indeed regained his memories, and Koala asked if he would quit the Revolutionary Army. Sabo denied this, but asked to speak with Dragon. In the present, Franky, Kin'emon, and Kanjuro well up in tears at the story, and the samurai indulge in the meat and alcohol, which Zoro berates them for. Knowing that they will need a lot of food to sustain themselves, Kin'emon and Kanjuro decide to go grocery shopping later. Franky then asks to hear the rest of the story, which Sabo complies with.
Before heading to Dressrosa, Sabo visited the graves of Ace and Whitebeard, pouring three sake cups on Ace's grave and talking about Luffy. As he walked away, Sabo contacted Koala via Den Den Mushi and asked for permission to obtain a certain Devil Fruit. Later, inside the Corrida Colosseum on Dressrosa, Luffy needed to get outside in order to rescue Law, and Bartolomeo promised to get the Mera Mera no Mi for him. However, Sabo walked up and said that he could not let either of them get the fruit. Bartolomeo angrily confronted him, but Sabo pushed him aside, saying he knew Luffy from way back. Luffy also became confrontational over Sabo's statement, not knowing who was before him. Sabo addressed him as Luffy and stated that he could tell his brother's face even in disguise, which caused Luffy to realize who he was. Luffy was taken aback by the realization and ran into the wall behind him, and Sabo shared the memory of them drinking sake cups, causing Luffy to wrap himself around his brother's head. Luffy began bawling as he asked Sabo where he had been all this time, and Sabo said that he is glad Luffy is alive. Luffy cried out that he had let Ace die, but Sabo was simply happy that Luffy was still there and that he was not alone, thanking Luffy for surviving. Luffy collapsed to the ground and Sabo asked if he could eat the Mera Mera no Mi, which Luffy agreed to.
In the present, the sleeping Luffy cracks open a smile, causing his crewmates to be happy. Sabo states that he is leaving now, and gives the Straw Hats a Vivre Card of Luffy, though keeps a piece for himself. Sabo knows that Luffy's crewmates should keep an eye on him, and they warmly remember that Ace said the same thing on Arabasta two years ago. As he walks outside, Sabo gets a call on Den Den Mushi, and he tells Hack on the other end that he is headed back before hanging up abruptly, causing Hack to punch at the operator. Meanwhile, Fujitora rolls a one on his die, which by the Marines' agreement was the only number in Luffy and Law's favor, meaning they would not go after them tonight. Maynard attempts to argue, but Fujitora says that his arguments are shameful. At the Dressrosa Royal Palace, the citizens and Colosseum gladiators sleep in a room, and Rebecca runs outside to where Riku Doldo III is. She asks her grandfather where Luffy and his group are, and Doldo replies that they are with Kyros. Doldo then tells Rebecca that if he becomes king again, she will become a princess, shocking her. Meanwhile, Sabo flies through the air on a flock of birds, excited to get back to Baltigo and talk to Dragon about Luffy and happy that he got to meet Luffy.

At Kyros' house, Zoro and Robin remark on the bond Luffy has with Sabo, and Franky is in tears after hearing Sabo's story, causing him to short-circuit. Kyros then gets up, revealing that he heard Sabo's story from halfway through. He offers the Straw Hats a drink, his hospitality toward them being in gratitude for them freeing Dressrosa. Robin and Franky fall asleep as Zoro drinks a bottle of alcohol, saying that he would like to spar with Kyros someday. Kyros is pleased by the compliment, and Zoro hands the rest of the drink to him as he falls asleep in his chair. Kyros looks outside toward the palace and thinks of Rebecca, remembering how he met her in the Corrida Colosseum earlier that day when he was still a toy, and Rebecca told him that she wanted to live with him. Kyros then grimly writes a letter and heads outside with it toward the palace.
Meanwhile, the Thousand Sunny has docked at a mysterious island, and on it Caesar Clown berates Sanji for getting them involved in another situation right after they escaped from the Big Mom Pirates, saying they should have stayed on the ship. Sanji orders Caesar to do something, using his heart as leverage and beating him up further when the scientist stubbornly refuses. Chopper then arrives, telling Caesar to help them save a group of people. Caesar still refuses, until Chopper finally grabs him angrily and says that the people will die if they do not get help. Elsewhere on the island, Nami, Brook, and Momonosuke run, having been separated from the others. Nami struggles to keep her footing on the island's ground, and falls on top of Brook, who attempts to catch her. They are then confronted by two pirates, Sheepshead and Ginrummy, who want to know what they did with a girl. Suddenly, the Eruption Rain begins as water erupts from a mountainous object, causing the island to become flooded. Nami is forced to save Brook and Momonosuke, who are both Devil Fruit eaters, from drowning, and pulls them up on a branch. 
However, Sheepshead and Ginrummy ride their crocodile-like steed through the water, and Sheepshead jumps at the Straw Hats from behind. However, Brook intercepts his sword slash, and Sheepshead gets away from Brook as he turns his hands into sheep's horns, shocking the Straw Hats. Brook intercepts Sheepshead's next attack with Soul Solid, and Sanji tells Brook to keep his defense as he comes flying in, defeating Sheepshead with a Diable Jambe kick. The floodwater begins draining away as Ginrummy watches the scene in shock, but becomes embarrassed as Sanji ogles her. Some more of her crewmates arrive, and she reveals that Sheepshead has been defeated and says that they should report that the samurai is not here, as he has not shown himself after all they have done. As the enemy pirates leave, Sanji stares at the defeated Sheepshead, who wears a belt bearing an unusual Jolly Roger. Meanwhile, at the Kid Pirates' hideout, a massive person falls onto the ground, causing a massive shockwave throwing the pirates into chaos. 
Eustass Kid, Scratchmen Apoo, and Basil Hawkins watch in shock as the dust settles, revealing a large hole created by the impact. Hawkins recalls hearing about a legend of a Sky Island where a monster lives, and it is reported to Kid that the impact has caused one of their ships to capsize, which causes him to become angry at the thing that fell. A short time earlier, a very large man came to Ballon Terminal looking for a place to die. Urouge followed him, wondering what he was doing, and when he found out he sat back and prayed as the man jumped. The man had been defeated seven times, captured by his enemies 18 times, and was set to be executed 40 times. However, all the execution weapons failed, and the man lived life as a criminal, sinking nine large prison ships at one point, as no one could kill him, not even himself. In the present, the man pulls himself out of the hole, complaining that his head hurts, and as he stands before Kid, Apoo, Hawkins, and Killer, it is revealed that he is Kaidou of the Four Emperors. The Supernovas sweat nervously as they stand before Kaidou, who shouts to Donquixote Doflamingo to hurry up, as he is ready to start a massive war because he feels the world is too mundane.

Three days after Doflamingo's downfall, Vice Admiral Tsuru and General Inspector Sengoku arrive on Dressrosa with Marine reinforcements. Tsuru asks if Luffy is still in the country, which the Marines affirm, but they reveal that they have placed lookouts everywhere and have defenses all across the country. Sengoku remarks that Tsuru is fired up, making her annoyed as she heads to the Marine camp. They reach the camp, where Fujitora is sitting and eating. Tsuru asks him why he is not going after the pirates, but Fujitora reveals that Luffy has had providence on his side; for the past two days he rolled a die with the condition that they would go after him if the die landed on anything other than one, but both times the die has landed on one. He thanks Tsuru for assisting in transporting Doflamingo, but reminds her that he is in charge, and she accepts his decision but says they cannot leave the pirates at large forever. Mansherry then arrives at the camp and asks the Marines to become donors, and they gawk at her cute appearance. Sengoku too remarks that she is cute, but is prodded by Maujii, who berates him for not treating the princess with respect. Mansherry says that the dwarves should not show themselves to anyone outside the royal family but still wanted to heal the citizens, which piques Sengoku's interest.
At the royal palace, Viola walks around wondering where Rebecca is as she remembers Rebecca confronting Riku Doldo III earlier. Rebecca asked Doldo why Kyros would tell a lie like that, but Doldo replied that that was what he wanted. In the downtown area below, Gatz gets the citizens excited by announcing that today will mark Doldo's return to the throne and Rebecca becoming the crown princess. Up in the palace, Elizabello II remarks to Doldo that everyone wanted him back after getting fooled by Doflamingo, being prepared to stake their future on his pacifist ideals. As Doldo remembers looking over Dressrosa while inside the Birdcage, he wishes he could be a god-like king who could fend off natural disasters, though tells an appalled Elizabello that he is only jesting. He says that they will continue their efforts until the day Rebecca inherits the throne, but Elizabello wonders if that will turn out all right, remembering how stubborn Scarlett was when she was young. 
Inside, Rebecca is fitted into a yellow dress by attendants, but is left speechless by her reflection. The attendants recall hearing about her father, revealing that they heard that he was a prince of a faraway land and that Scarlett ran away with him, forcing her to be pronounced dead. Upon hearing this, Rebecca's expression sours and she clenches her dress as Viola looks on. Downtown, people discuss the story of Rebecca's father and how he died in a war, leaving her as a true, pure-blooded heir to the throne. Kin'emon and Kanjuro overhear this as they ride on Kanjuro's sparrow carrying groceries, and are confused as they know Kyros to be Rebecca's father. As he sits by Scarlett's grave, Kyros remembers spending time with Rebecca when he was a toy and how he would drop a flower petal into her house every night to tell her he was still there. 
Meanwhile, citizens are lining up at the Marine camp to receive glowing flowers that heal their wounds. Kin'emon and Kanjuro notice this as well as the increased Marine presence as they fly higher to avoid drawing attention. At the Marine camp, Mansherry uses the Marines' blood to create the flowers, and Sengoku heartily offers to give many donations, creating a competition between him and the Marines to see who can give the most. As this happens, Fujitora tells Tsuru that she can roll the die, and as always, they will go after the Straw Hats if anything other than a one is rolled. Kin'emon and Kanjuro bring the groceries to Kyros' house, causing Luffy to wake up and scarf down the food. Kin'emon and Kanjuro tell the others about the rumors about Rebecca's father, and Luffy is surprised by this as he sleepily eats the food, though is also in a rush to get back to Sanji's group, causing Zoro to tell him to take it easy. Luffy is angered by the story, but Kyros reveals that he was the one who made it up. He says that he did it because he used to be a criminal and was never meant to interact with the royal family like he did, so he wants Rebecca to live happily without the shadow of his past behind her. Luffy, however, does not buy the explanation.
Right then, Bartolomeo races up to Kyros' house as Kyros receives a call from Leo, and Bartolomeo becomes entranced when he sees five of the Straw Hats together. He reveals to them that Sengoku and Tsuru are on Dressrosa, and at the Marine encampment, Tsuru rolls a six with Fujitora's die. Fujitora is now set on capturing the Straw Hats and the criminals residing in the palace. The Marines are mobilized, though they wonder about breaking the king's asylum, but Fujitora says that he will take all responsibility. The pirates in Kyros' house then prepare to escape the island.

The Marines swarm the streets as they prepare to arrest the Straw Hat Pirates and Law. At the Marine camp, Bastille states that they have occupied the entire island but warns his men to watch themselves anyway. Fujitora then heads out of the camp, leaving the rest of the planning to Bastille. At Kyros' house, Kyros warns the pirates inside that the Marines are coming for them. Usopp is horrified at the news, but everyone else in the house was expecting this and was ready to leave as soon as Luffy woke up. Kyros asks Leo over the Den Den Mushi if he did everything he asked, and Leo affirms this as he watches the Marines run with some other dwarves. The citizens of Dressrosa watch the Marines as well, and a girl is afraid they are after Luffy, but is reassured otherwise. Leo notices the Marines are also headed to the Royal Palace to go after the criminals there, but Bartolomeo reveals that they had been watching the Marines and assures that everything will be all right. He tells the people inside the house to follow him outside, where they would escape through the eastern port. Usopp states that there are Marines there as well, but Bartolomeo reveals that their Corrida Colosseum gladiator allies are stationed throughout the city, ready to clear the way. The Straw Hats point out that they do not have a ship, but the gladiators have one ready for them.
The pirates stand up, preparing to leave the island. Luffy asks Bellamy if he can get up, and the pirate confirms this and does so. Bellamy asks Law why he was saved, and Law replies that Luffy said he was a friend, but the two get into an argument. The Marines begin swarming the house as the pirates rush out of it, and the Marines open fire on them. Bartolomeo blocks their bullets with a barrier, but Luffy suddenly stops and faces the other way. He reveals that he has something to do and tells the others to go on their way. The pirates are surprised but do what he says, although Zoro inadvertently goes in the wrong direction. Luffy leaps into the city below, and the Marines open fire on him, but Luffy activates Gomu Gomu no Fusen to block their bullets before landing and attacking them with rapid punches.
At the Royal Palace, Riku Doldo III calls Tank Lepanto to him, revealing that it is time to announce his return to the throne. Doldo asks his servant to get Rebecca and Viola, and an overjoyed Tank complies. Inside, Viola uses clairvoyance to watch the pirates escaping, and Rebecca is saddened that she could not see Luffy again to thank him. Meanwhile, Fujitora, Tsuru, and Tsuru's soldiers march through the city, with Fujitora planning to use his full power to see if Luffy's luck had run out. At the camp, Bastille asserts his command and gives out orders to continue the assault on the Straw Hats and the Royal Palace. The Straw Hats and their allies run through the city, and Usopp trips over rubble, but Bartolomeo is still awed by him doing that. Usopp wonders if doing this is safe, but Bartolomeo keeps pressing on. 
Bastille receives a report that the Straw Hats are heading to the eastern port, so he contacts his men there. However, an unfamiliar person on the other end reports that everything is fine the Marines at the eastern port are blown away. Bastille grows suspicious about the person on the other side, who turns out to be Abdullah and Jeet, and they claim that they need no backup. Bastille exposes them by asking for their name and Marine code, and orders his men at the camp to send reinforcements to the seized eastern port. Meanwhile, Cavendish and Sai take out the Marines headed for the Straw Hats, and Hajrudin lifts up a fallen building blocking their way before throwing it at the Marines. Blue Gilly, Suleiman, and Baby 5 also attack the Marines, and they report to Bastille that the criminals at the palace are now here.
Bastille asks if there is no one left at the palace, when suddenly Luffy comes flying over him as he heads toward a rock spire that he wrapped his arm around. The Marines fire at him as Luffy gets his arm stuck around the spire, but he manages to free himself as he flies into the Flower Field, where he is surrounded by Marines. The Marines in the Flower Field report that they have found Luffy, but Luffy takes them out by raining attacks from above. Luffy shouts Rebecca's name as he finishes off the Marines with a Gear 3 punch, and the impact is noticed by the people in Rebecca's fitting room. Rebecca then hears Luffy calling her name and calls out to him from her window, and Luffy pulls himself up to right outside the window. Rebecca heads toward Luffy despite a guard attempting to block her, and Viola is surprised to see Luffy. Luffy asks Rebecca if she is all right with what Kyros did, knowing that she will never see him again. Rebecca acknowledges that her father is trying to distance herself from her, wondering if it was because she said horrible things to him as she remembers arguing with Kyros back when he was a toy that he would never be able to defeat Doflamingo since he was only a one-legged toy soldier. She asks Luffy if she is annoying to Kyros, but Luffy shouts in exasperation that he only wants to know if Rebecca is fine with what Kyros did. Rebecca emotionally replies that she is not, and Luffy tells her to come with him. Viola and the guards are bewildered by this, and Viola attempts to step in, but Rebecca turns to her and asks her for a favor.
Luffy breaks Rebecca out of the palace, and a man runs to Doldo to reveal what just happened. The citizens below are astonished by this turn of events, and start to turn against Luffy by saying they should have never trusted a pirate. Gatz is also astounded, but proclaims that he still likes Luffy. Maynard points to this to prove his position that pirates cannot be trusted and orders his men to go after Luffy and rescue Rebecca. Luffy leaps into the city with Rebecca holding onto him, and the Marine snipers take careful aim at him. However, their rifles fire blanks, and they suddenly collapse. Bastille hears about this and wonders if this is from Haoshoku Haki, but it is revealed the Marines are still conscious. Bastille grows tense knowing that the criminals are nearing escape, and orders all his forces to head to the east. The Straw Hats are nearing the port, and Law notices Sengoku and the gorilla Uhho sitting nearby, with Sengoku reassuring a fallen Marine that the rescue team would soon come. Sengoku then sees Luffy and Rebecca running through the city, and angered citizens join the Marines in pursuing Luffy as he leaps from building to building. 

Luffy continues running across rooftops with Rebecca on his back as the citizens of Dressrosa angrily pursue him, saying they should never have trusted him. Some citizens climb up to the roof Luffy is on, but he leaps over them onto another building and continues running. Luffy leaps back down to the streets as the citizens continue pursuing him, when he suddenly runs into a platoon of Marines. The Marines shoot nets at him, and Luffy attempts to dodge them, but one soldier manages to hit him in midair. Luffy is unable to make it onto a roof and collapses on the ground due to the net being made of Seastone, and a frantic Rebecca frees him. However, they are surrounded by the Marines, who order Luffy to surrender Rebecca, but the pirate refuses as he attacks them. The Marines shoot more nets at him, but Luffy pulls himself and Rebecca away, causing the Marines to become entangled in them. Luffy and Rebecca are sent flying high into the air, causing Rebecca to scream in fright, but Luffy manages to grab onto another building as they descend. They are sent flying into a window, and Luffy runs inside the building, stealing a piece of meat before jumping out the other side. As he runs down the street again, Luffy tells Rebecca that he will leave her behind the hill and lure their pursuers away, as the citizens will take her back to the palace if she is caught. He tells her to head to the small house in the Flower Field, causing Rebecca to remember living there as a child. Luffy tells Rebecca to hurry before Kyros leaves, and she thanks him for everything.
Meanwhile, Kyros packs his belongings inside his house, and holds up a pair of brown gloves, remembering how he held a young Rebecca with them after initially refusing to touch her with his bare hands. He then speaks to Scarlett in his mind, saying that he had fulfilled his role, and asks for her forgiveness for lying about who her husband was, claiming that he did it so Rebecca could live a happy life. Meanwhile, Rebecca reaches the Flower Field, and remembers when she and her parents were picking flowers. She joyfully gave flowers to them before they sold all of them in the city, which she was ecstatic about when they got home. In the present, Rebecca races through the forest leading to the field, but trips over a tree root. She then remembers Kyros going to the burning palace ten years ago when the Donquixote Pirates were taking over, and how they shared one last embrace as a family. Days later, Rebecca was approached by Kyros, who was now turned into the Thunder Soldier toy, carrying the dead Scarlett in his arms. Thunder Soldier apologized to Rebecca for failing to protect her mother, and Rebecca grieved over her as Thunder Soldier promised to protect her. However, Rebecca got angry at Thunder Soldier for not protecting Scarlett, as she had forgotten who he really was. Rebecca remembers spending the remainder of her life happily living with Thunder Soldier, and in the present she silently begs him not to go, as there was so much she had not said to him. Rebecca then gets up and keeps running.
Kyros heads to the door, remembering how he protected Rebecca when he was Thunder Soldier, and how she once told him that she wanted to live with him one day. Rebecca continues running and stumbling through the forest, gaining bruises and cuts on her face and tearing her dress. As she trips again, Rebecca remembers how Thunder Soldier taught to fight, and she determinedly presses on. Kyros prepares to leave, knowing that Rebecca was ridiculed the past ten years for being a member of the deposed royal family, and wanting her to finally live happily as part of the royal family. He has also decided that he should not stay here either. As Kyros opens the door, he is suddenly face to face with Rebecca, who tells him not to lie. Realizing she is talking about his letter, Kyros states that everything he wrote there was true, as he was really once a mass murderer. However, Rebecca states that she does not care about that and that she only has one father and states that's him. The two begin crying as Rebecca embraces her father, telling him to stay by her side like he promised her as a toy, and Kyros slowly embraces her back. He asks if she really is okay with him being her father, which Rebecca happily affirms, and the two emotionally reconcile. At the Royal Palace, Viola approaches Riku Doldo III, revealing that Rebecca had asked her to become crown princess in her stead, much like Scarlett had done years ago.
The Straw Hats, samurai, and the Colosseum gladiators have reached the eastern port, but are forced to wait for Luffy and the suddenly missing Law to return. Suddenly, Fujitora comes flying toward them on a piece of rubble, and Zoro eagerly anticipates a clash as Luffy hurriedly runs to the harbor. At the Marine camp, Bastille tells his men about his strategy to capture the pirates and criminals in one fell swoop by surrounding them and sending in Fujitora to make the final move. Zoro sends a flying slash at Fujitora, but the Admiral leaps off the piece of rubble he is sitting on, which is destroyed by the slash. Zoro prepares to draw more swords, but Bartolomeo blocks him, telling him to leave it to him and the gladiators. At the Marine camp, Bastille receives reports that Marine troops all across the island have lost their weapons and their battleships have been stitched together. Unbeknownst to them, their weapons were  stolen by the dwarves, and Leo had sewn their ships together. Bastille gets angry at the reports, and Mansherry wonders if it is all right for her to keep getting Kenpopo donations, but Maujii assures her so, revealing that Kyros had authorized this. A Marine tells his comrade currently giving a donation that they have to go, but Mansherry says they will be done soon, and the entranced Marine eagerly gives her all the time she needs. The Marines report to Bastille that what happened to them is supposedly the work of fairies, which angers the Vice Admiral. At the eastern harbor, Bartolomeo puts up a barrier to block Fujitora, who unsheathes his sword. Luffy sees an explosion in front of him, and wonders if his allies are fighting.
Meanwhile, Sengoku offers Law okaki, which he refuses in favor of having the General Inspector start talking. Sengoku tells Law about what happened thirteen years ago, when he was talking to Donquixote Rosinante about a boy with Amber Lead disease. He warned Rosinante to not let this get in the way of his mission to spy on Doflamingo, which Rosinante agreed to. Sengoku tells Law in the present that Rosinante was special to him, as he met him when he was a kid and his sense of justice was very strong. However, Rosinante did lie to him once. Thirteen years ago, Sengoku was appalled to hear that Doflamingo had heard about their upcoming exchange of the Ope Ope no Mi, and he and Rosinante discussed the plan to bring down the Donquixote Pirates during the exchange. Later, he received a report that Rosinante had died on Minion Island, causing him to weep bitterly. In the present, Sengoku tells Law that four things were lost that day: the Barrels Pirates, Rosinante, the Ope Ope no Mi, and the boy with the Amber Lead disease. Law then reveals to Sengoku that the boy from Flevance that Rosinante cared for was him.

In response to Law's revelation that he is the boy Donquixote Rosinante cared for, Sengoku states that he had already guessed, but asks Law why Rosinante worked so much to help him. Law tells Sengoku how Rosinante took him to hospitals before getting him the Ope Ope no Mi, and he had spent the thirteen years after Rosinante's death working to kill Donquixote Doflamingo. However, Law wonders if that was how he should have lived as a D., and Sengoku is shocked that Law carries the initial in his name. Law asks him if, as the former Fleet Admiral, he knows what it means, but Sengoku replies that he does not know, saying that Rosinante also had no idea and telling Law to not go looking for reasons for Rosinante's love for him. As Law remembers his experiences with Rosinante, Sengoku says that he will not arrest him to talk more and tells him that the best way to honor Rosinante's memory is to remember him and keep on living.
At the eastern port, Fujitora approaches the pirates and gladiators huddled behind Bartolomeo's barrier. Fujitora notices the barrier and unsheathes his sword, causing the loose rubble all across Dressrosa to tremble. The citizens are bewildered as it starts rising into the air, and Gatz notes while broadcasting that this can only be the work of Fujitora. Fujitora lifts all the rubble into the air, forming a giant mass blocking out the sun. The pirates and gladiators stare at it in shock, as well as Riku Doldo III, Viola, Rebecca, and Kyros, who fear for the Straw Hats' survival. Tsuru calls Bastille from the coast, but he is late to respond due to staring at the rubble. She asks him if he requires any more reinforcements in the eastern port, which he denies. Bastille then tells his troops to evacuate the eastern port and help get the citizens there away to safety, saying to not get in Fujitora's way. Law reunites with the pirates and gladiators, telling them that they should run to the ships quickly, but they note that Fujitora will likely crush them regardless. Bartolomeo then notices Luffy running towards them from behind Fujitora, and he tells Luffy to avoid the admiral. However, Luffy sees Fujitora and remembers confronting him before, and with this in mind he calls out to him. Fujitora turns to face Luffy, who proclaims that he is going to punch the admiral, and he does so with Elephant Gun.
A fearful Bartolomeo asks Luffy why he attacked Fujitora, and Luffy replies that in order to become the Pirate King he must be able to beat anyone, including admirals and Four Emperors. Luffy is determined to not run away from them again, remembering how he and his crew were defeated by Bartholomew Kuma on Sabaody Archipelago. Zoro and Usopp understand what he means as Luffy activates Gear 2 and goes after Fujitora again. However, Luffy announces what attack he will make before performing it, puzzling Zoro. Luffy and Fujitora exchange quick blows before Fujitora uses his Devil Fruit powers to force Luffy into the ground. Luffy manages to headbutt his way out of Fujitora's gravity zone as he resumes attacking, though he accidentally says he will kick Fujitora as he throws a punch. Luffy apologizes, but Fujitora replies that the attack did not even graze him as he tries to trap Luffy in more gravity fields, forcing the pirate to run away. Luffy and Fujitora then rapidly exchange blows again before Fujitora hits Luffy with a gravity attack, sending him tumbling into the air. Luffy wonders why his body is growing lighter and heavier as Fujitora forces him into the ground again, but he manages to escape, reactivating Gear 2 and restating that he will not give up despite his allies' pleas.
Fujitora states that Luffy possesses enough power to make that statement, but wonders why Luffy is announcing his attacks, questioning angrily if it were to give him a handicap as he blocks a Gear 3 punch. Luffy replies that it is because he likes Fujitora, which causes the admiral to laugh, and his laughing angers Luffy as they exchange blows again. Fujitora questions the point as he blocks another Gear 3 punch, saying that people should fight in a way that fits their position, without pity, as he uses gravity to send Luffy into the ground. Luffy replies that he does not care, and Fujitora says that he is doing so even though he does not want to as he prepares his next attack. He then attacks Luffy with a wave of gravity, causing the pirate's vision to warp as he is sent flying into Dressrosa's coastline, destroying a large chunk of it.

Luffy is sent flying through Dressrosa's coastline by Admiral Fujitora's gravity wave, and upon Cavendish's orders he is grabbed by Hajrudin. Cavendish orders Hajrudin to take Luffy to the port, and Luffy unsuccessfully tries to escape from the giant's grasp and get back to his battle. Zoro prepares to have his turn fighting Fujitora, but Bartolomeo stops him, saying they have another arrangement. The Straw Hats, samurai, and Corrida Colosseum gladiators rush onto the coast, and Usopp wonders how they could have docked all their ships there. Orlumbus reveals to him that his Nita Maria ships are all lined up single file, holding up a makeshift dock leading to the rest of their ships in a foggy area five kilometers away. As the criminals run onto the makeshift dock, Luffy attempts to escape from Hajrudin's grasp yet again, but the giant retains his grip, saying they have something to do.
Fujitora stands by the eastern harbor, intent on not allowing the criminals to escape. He moves the large mass of rubble floating in the sky over the Nita Maria, shocking the people below. The people on Dressrosa are scared as well, and Fujitora begins reflecting, knowing that the Straw Hats and their allies will soon perish. However, even if they somehow managed to escape, they would be targeted by the Four Emperors, so either way they will undergo hell. Fujitora notes Luffy's sympathy for his blindness, but reveals that he blinded himself because he had seen many things he did not want to. Usopp frets about the looming rubble as the criminals run faster, and Fujitora scatters the rubble so that it extends over the entire line of ships. Fujitora begins dropping the rubble when he is suddenly approached by a horde of citizens.
Fujitora attempts to stop them, but they run past him, shouting their intentions to get Rebecca back and take down the criminals themselves. The citizens run to the coast as the criminals notice that the rubble is not coming down, and Luffy stands on Hajrudin's shoulder after convincing him he will not go back. Luffy sees the citizens going after him and wonders what they are doing. As the citizens run past Fujitora, he hears one of them ask why they are doing this, as Rebecca was really with Kyros. Another citizen replies that they knew this, as well as who the fairies really were. As such, the citizens are only putting on a facade, shouting threats with smiles on their faces and stopping at the edge of the coast to cheer on the Straw Hats. Fujitora reflects that everyone really does want to help Luffy and begins wondering what Luffy looks like, as he regrets blinding himself. At the Marine camp, Bastille hears about the citizens at the port and wonders what Fujitora is doing.
The Straw Hats are awestruck when they reach the enormous flagship Yonta Maria, and Bartolomeo promises to show them his ship later. Hajrudin reveals that he and four other giants are going to reform the Giant Warrior Pirates, and Orlumbus says that his fleet of 56 ships should also help them, which confused the Straw Hats. Leo says that he and the Tonta Corps were given permission to help as well, Ideo reveals that he has formed an alliance with Blue Gilly, Abdullah, and Jeet, and Suleiman reveals that he has joined Cavendish. Luffy gets confused at the sudden onslaught of news, and they reveal that they had planned this while staying at the palace for two days. Bartolomeo then steps forward and requests Luffy to allow the seven crews present to serve under him like parent and child.

Somewhere at sea, a group of pirates form an alliance to take revenge on Luffy for taking down Doflamingo's market, which they had relied on. They also plan to ransack Dressrosa if Riku has become king again.
On the Yonta Maria, Bartolomeo prepares to complete the agreement for him, Cavendish, Sai, Ideo, Leo, Hajrudin, Orlumbus, and each of their crews to serve under the Straw Hat Pirates. He pours cups of sake for himself and the six captains before emptying the rest of the sake into a very large cup for the Straw Hats. Bartolomeo then restates their request to serve under Luffy, whom they will officially bond with by drinking the sake, but he refuses to drink, saying he does not like the taste. The seven captains are shocked, saying that this is not about the taste, but Luffy continues to refuse, knowing that he would have full control over thousands of people. Bartolomeo tells him that this is a good thing, as they can help Luffy defeat powerful enemies in the New World. Some of the captains get annoyed at the refusal, with Sai and Ideo suggesting that they should force him to drink. Finally, Luffy tells them that he does not want control over them because it would not let him sail freely and become Pirate King like he wanted to. Luffy tells the captains that they already had a bond after they worked together to defeat Doflamingo, and he would come help any of them if they came calling.
Suddenly, the enemy pirate alliance arrives and starts firing at the seven crews' fleet. Orlumbus has Columbus deal with the enemies as the captains resume their discussion. Suddenly, Fujitora's rubble begins dropping on the attacking ships, which are quickly annihilated when Pica's stone legs fall on them, and Fujitora tells Luffy that this is his parting gift to him. On the Yonta Maria, the captains grow emotional over their admiration for Luffy's desire to be free, and they decide to drink their sake cups and pledge allegiance to Luffy regardless of his wishes, as Zoro drinks all the sake in Luffy's cup. The seven crews then bring out food for a banquet to celebrate the formation of the Straw Hat Grand Fleet. Luffy is angered about this and that he cannot reciprocate the action, but the captains tell him that this is a one-sided alliance where they will come and help him whenever he wishes.
The crews then take part in the party, with Leo telling Cavendish that he will head back later on the Yellow Kabu while Orlumbus orders his fleet to set sail. On Dressrosa, Bastille receives a report that the rubble is falling but none of it is hitting the pirates, shocking him. Fujitora thanks Luffy for cleaning up the World Government's messes, but is shocked when Sengoku overhears it from behind. On the Flower Field, Rebecca and Kyros watch the Straw Hats depart as they hold each other's bare hands for the first time in ten years. As the party on the Yonta Maria continues, it is foreshadowed that the Straw Hat Grand Fleet will play a role in a pivotal event in the future.

On the Yonta Maria, the Straw Hat Grand Fleet's party continues. Law stands abovedeck looking at the sea, and Robin approaches him and asks what he will do next. However, Law leaves and tells her to leave him alone.
On Dressrosa, CP0 agents Rob Lucci and Spandam receive a report from Kaku that the Underworld weapons left on Dressrosa were all stolen, most likely by the Revolutionary Army. Lucci then orders that they leave. Meanwhile, the citizens begin celebrating a new beginning for the island as Viola and Gatz dance for them. Riku Doldo III and Viola then reveal the existence of the dwarf king Gancho and princess Mansherry, and the citizens are ecstatic to see them. The humans and dwarves begin fully coexisting and mingling, and Leo has the humans build statues of Luffy, Kyros, and Usopp. Doldo turns his attention to the upcoming Levely, and he and Viola prepare to meet up with Kyros and Rebecca to eat.
Out at sea, a four-battleship Marine convoy sails through a thunderstorm, and Fujitora tells Sengoku while they eat noodles that he will go on a journey due to his failure to capture Luffy and Law. Sengoku tells him to just apologize to Sakazuki, who would swallow his pride, but Fujitora replies that he had pride of his own that he could not swallow. Belowdeck, a chained and imprisoned Donquixote Doflamingo tells Tsuru that Fujitora should have just cooperated with him and everything would have remained orderly. However, Tsuru tells him to accept his defeat, but asks about what might arise from it. Doflamingo says that 25 years after Gol D. Roger has died, a power vacuum has been created as several groups will fight to take the throne and reign over the world. Doflamingo wonders who will emerge victorious, and as he begins shaking his chains, he wonders when the Family of "D." will fully show themselves. Some Marines rush over to quell Doflamingo's activity, but Tsuru stops them as Doflamingo tells her to tell the World Nobles that they will be dragged down. Lightning strikes one of the Marine ships, and as Marines work to put it out, they are watched by a pirate nearby. The pirate remarks on the strength of the Marine convoy and tells his captain Jack that it will be impossible to take back Doflamingo. However, Jack is still intent on carrying out the rescue.
Elsewhere, the Straw Hats are shocked as they see Bartolomeo's ship, the Going Luffy-senpai, for the first time. The entire ship pays homage to the Straw Hats, as the masthead is a giant Luffy statue, a wall in the middle is a large replica of the Going Merry's head, there is a giant Chopper figurehead in the stern, and they also have tangerine groves like Nami's. Franky compliments the design, and everyone in the Barto Club is dazzled to hear this. Bartolomeo points to their most important edition, the newly acquired vivre card that Sabo gave to Luffy. Back on the Yonta Maria some time ago, Luffy had given pieces of the vivre card to Bellamy, who decided to go on his own path, as well as all the Grand Fleet crews as they departed. The Straw Hats tell Bartolomeo to set sail for Zou as they worry about their crewmates on the Thousand Sunny, as the last time they had spoken the Sunny team was being chased by the Big Mom Pirates. Zoro then sees in the newspaper that their bounties had gone up, and Bartolomeo beckons them inside his ship to see their new wanted posters, telling Law that his bounty was now 500,000,000. Bartolomeo first points to the autographs that the currently present Straw Hats gave him before showing their updated bounties and wanted posters, which each pirate has mixed reactions to. Usopp's poster now shows his real face and he now has a 200,000,000 bounty, which angers Franky as he only has a 94,000,000 bounty. Sanji's poster also now shows his real face. Bartolomeo reveals that the Straw Hats' allies during the battle on Dressrosa had bounty increases of 50,000,000, and the Straw Hats notice something strange about Sanji's bounty: he is only wanted alive. Meanwhile, Bill eats a lump of coal, causing his skin to glow red.

The Going Luffy-senpai sails through the New World, and the Barto Club eagerly treats the Straw Hat Pirates to a feast. Suddenly, large chunks of hail start falling, and Bartolomeo tells the Straw Hats to get inside. They refuse, wanting to help, and ask where their navigator is. The Barto Club reveals that they have no navigator, and they just call their granny back home if they need any help. Gambia calls her to ask about the hail, but to the Straw Hats' shock she only gives domestic advice like getting gum off the deck and treating lumps caused by the hail. The Straw Hats begin panicking, and Zoro asks why Bartolomeo is not blocking the hail with his barrier, but Bartolomeo replies that their granny told them not to defy nature. Luffy then jumps onto the masthead and rapidly blows away the hail coming for them, causing the Barto Club to gawk in admiration and Bartolomeo to reflect on how happy he is to be traveling with Luffy.
That night, the pirates sleep on the deck. Luffy gets hungry and gets up, which Bartolomeo notices. He gets up and follows Luffy, wanting to be with him and assist him if possible. Suddenly, a giant piece of meat flies over the ship, and Luffy eagerly grabs onto it, and a shocked Bartolomeo follows him. They are pulled onto a floating platform, and Peseta remarks in awe that Desire, the woman in front of Luffy and Bartolomeo, managed to capture Luffy. The Straw Hats wake up and confront the kidnappers, with Usopp firing a Pop Green. However, Desire and her accomplices destroy it, and Franky attacks with Weapons Left. He knocks one of the kidnappers off her boat, but is otherwise unsuccessful as Desire rescues her accomplice. Peseta and his men then fire cannonballs at the Going Luffy-senpai, but these balls release a sticky substance which traps the Straw Hats and the Barto Club. The kidnappers then escape with Luffy and Bartolomeo in tow.
On Silver Mine, a deserted island near Dressrosa, a group of people bring treasure and a pirate to the giant silver fortress in the center. Inside, Bill sits on a throne, eating pieces of rock and exuding a molten substance as he heads out. Meanwhile, Bartolomeo is forced to mine for ore, with Peseta whipping him if he stops working. Bartolomeo asks him if Luffy is all right, and Peseta affirms this, but says that might not be the case ten minutes from now. Bartolomeo attacks Peseta with his pickax, but Peseta leaves, with Bartolomeo being unable to make a barrier because his hands are stuck to the pickax. Meanwhile, Luffy is in a jail cell, with his entire body below the neck being enveloped in a silver ball, and he futilely attempts to escape somehow. Desire and the Sweet Pirates visit him, revealing that they destroyed the Going Luffy-senpai and that they are the ultimate weapons group thanks to Bill's Gutsu Gutsu no Mi. Luffy shouts that she is lying, which deeply angers Desire, but Luffy stops yelling as he gets weak from hunger. He asks Desire if he can eat the meat that she lured him with, and she refuses, but eventually lets him eat some of her chocolate. She then gets a call, and tells her accomplices that it is time.
Bill walks into an auditorium, with his henchmen all chanting his name excitedly. He greets his crew, the Silver Pirate Alliance, and some of his men present wanted pirates that they had captured. Desire then arrives with Luffy in tow, and the pirates are shocked that they captured the famous pirate. Bill tells his men that they have come together to form a large crew of high strength, and have defeated over a hundred enemy crews in the process. By building up enough strength, they will aim to be the top pirates in the world, even surpassing the Four Emperors. Bill presents the bodies of their enemies, all mummified in metal, and tells Luffy that this is where he will end up as he reaches into his molten chest, revealing that he ate the Gutsu Gutsu no Mi and became a Blast Furnace Human. As some molten lava launches from Bill's body, Bartolomeo suddenly comes flying up through the stage, ready to defend Luffy. He holds back the Silver Pirate Alliance with his pickax, but the pickax is broken by Desire. Bartolomeo fully realizes that it is Desire and asks her what she is doing here, but she replies that it is none of his business. Bill pulls two molten swords out of his chest and attacks Luffy, who rolls away, and Bill's attack cuts into the silver ball and melts part of it. Luffy and Bartolomeo are cornered by the Silver Pirate Alliance, but Luffy is intent on escaping as he rolls through the pirates, and Bartolomeo chases after him.
Luffy bowls over more pirates as he rolls up a ramp, but loses the energy Desire's chocolate bar gave him and rolls back down and back into the stage, rolling into the exit on the opposite side. An angry Bill orders his subordinates to chase Luffy and Bartolomeo, and Desire and her crewmates return to their Battle Boats. Luffy and Bartolomeo rest outside, having lost their pursuers, and Luffy trusts Bartolomeo to guard him while he is in the silver ball, which the pirate is eagerly willing to do. Luffy gets hungry and wishes he had more of Desire's chocolate, and Bartolomeo reveals that he and Desire were once childhood friends. They went out to sea separately, but Bartolomeo wonders why she is an enemy to them now. Suddenly, they are confronted by Desire and her crew, and run away. The Sweet Pirates pursue them on their racers, and Desire offers to have Bill spare her old friend Bartolomeo if he hands over Luffy, but an unwavering Bartolomeo refuses to betray his idol as he starts rolling with the silver ball. An angered Desire fires cannonballs rapidly at Luffy and Bartolomeo, but ends up creating a chasm which the two pirates fall into. However, Desire is unable to stop in time and falls into the chasm as well, and her stopped crewmates look down in shock.
At Bill's throne, Tanaka arrives through the floor, wondering what the outside ruckus is. Peseta presents a large quantity of silver to Tanaka, which he is grateful for. Bill tells Tanaka to greet Gild Tesoro for him, and also to take care of the wanted pirates they had captured. Suddenly, Peseta gets a call, and tells Bill that Luffy, Bartolomeo, and Desire have fallen into the abyss. Bill tells him to call Aveyron, and inside an underground mine track, Aveyron gets Peseta's call, and turns his hands and feet into wheels as he prepares to depart.

In an underground tunnel in Silver Mine, Bartolomeo frees himself from a pile of ore he was buried in after falling. He looks for Luffy, and thinks that he has fallen into a nearby chasm due to his straw hat being on the edge of it, but to his relief Luffy calls out from another pile of ore, which Bartolomeo frees him from. Desire then gets up from her fall, and sees her Battle Boat in ruins. As Bartolomeo gives Luffy his straw hat back, Desire petitions Bartolomeo to let her have Luffy, and Bartolomeo refuses, asking her why she is enemies with them. Luffy looks up and wonders why there are a lot of train tracks up above them, and Aveyron wheels down a set of tracks elsewhere. Desire attempts to contact someone, but gets no reception, and admits to Bartolomeo that she has no knowledge of the tracks despite being in the Silver Pirate Alliance. Suddenly, Aveyron alerts the trio that he is coming, and he rolls right toward Luffy.
Aveyron reveals that he ate the Koro Koro no Mi, allowing him to roll on the train tracks, and it is his duty to eliminate anyone who stumbles into the underground mines. Luffy, Bartolomeo, and Desire manage to get out of Aveyron's way as he speeds right past them, and Desire wonders why he tried to attack her as well. Aveyron turns around and turns his front wheels back into hands, reaching into the lid on his back and pulling out bombs. Bartolomeo and Desire push the encased Luffy along the tracks as they race away from Aveyron, who throws his bombs at them. Bartolomeo and Desire end up running in place on the rolling Luffy as they traverse the twists and jumps of the rail tracks. They eventually come to a fork in the tracks and decide to go right, but Aveyron reveals that they are headed for hell as the pirates roll and fall into a deep chasm. Aveyron reports to Bill where the pirates are headed as he prepares to follow them, and in his throne room, Bill assures Desire's crewmates that his units are searching for her.
Luffy, Bartolomeo, and Desire get up at the bottom of the chasm, and they hear Aveyron pursuing them. Luffy curses being trapped in a silver ball, and Desire brags that Bill's creations cannot be broken that easily, causing Bartolomeo to question why she is proud of Bill after his subordinate tried to kill her. However, Desire replies that a traitor like him has no right to say that, which confuses him. Desire tells her old friend that when they were younger they had promised to aim for the top together, but she set off alone with her friends after Bartolomeo decided to help Luffy become Pirate King instead. She reveals that her crew met with tragedy as all but four of them were shot down and killed by an enemy ship. As they were floating in the wreckage, they were approached by Bill, who rescued them and accepted them into his alliance, giving Desire his large Battle Boat. Desire says that she was glad to meet someone who shared her ideals and that everyone else in the alliance trusted Bill to. She captured Luffy in order to please Bill, and also because she knew about Bartolomeo's dedication to him. Bartolomeo still refuses to trust Bill and as Desire argues with him, the trio are suddenly approached by four miners.
The miners take them to a house in a mining colony, where Bartolomeo tries to get rid of the sticky substance binding his hands by dipping them in hot water. The miners find out that the pirates were also dropped into their location, but fail to break the silver ball Luffy is encased in. Luffy wonders what this place is, and the miners reveal that they were enslaved and forced to work in the underground mines by Bill after they failed to bring him treasure and wanted pirates. An appalled Desire runs out, struggling to reconcile her vision of Bill with the one the miners presented. Luffy asks if there is any way to escape, but the miners reveal that Aveyron always thwarts any of their attempts. Aveyron suddenly calls out as he gets closer to the mining colony, and Bartolomeo hurriedly tries to free his hands. As Aveyron reaches the bottom, Desire confronts him and asks if Bill really ordered him to kill her, which he affirms, causing Desire to rush and attack him. Aveyron throws many bombs at her, but she deflects all of them, and Bartolomeo frees his hands as the miners cheer for Desire.
Suddenly, Aveyron throws a bomb at Luffy, Bartolomeo, and the miners, throwing them to the ground. He then races toward Luffy and pulls out a drill Bill specially made for him, in order to impale Luffy with it. He plunges the spinning drill into Luffy's ball, but the attack is too low and only destroys the ball, freeing Luffy. As Luffy confronts Aveyron, the Rail Car Man pulls out his most powerful weapons and rushes at his opponent with a giant silver hammer, but Luffy shatters it. Aveyron then shoots cannonballs upward at Luffy, but he sends them flying back down with Jet Gatling, injuring Aveyron. Aveyron then escapes into the mine tunnels, and Luffy and Bartolomeo pursue him. He manages to keep an advantage by quickly changing direction, leaving bombs behind each time, but Luffy and Bartolomeo continue the chase. After Aveyron dodges a Jet Gatling attack, Bartolomeo tells Luffy to leave this to him, and he puts a barrier over the track that leads into a loop going back to them. Aveyron is sent flying toward Luffy by the loop, and Luffy finishes him off with Jet Bazooka, causing Aveyron to fly backward and set off the bombs he left behind, which cause him to fly back until he returns to the mining colony, dazed and defeated. The miners and Desire are shocked by Aveyron's defeat as Luffy and Bartolomeo return and prepare to leave the mining colony. In Bill's throne room, Bill and Peseta find out about Aveyron's defeat, and Bill decides to bury everyone inside the underground mine.

In the underground mining colony on Silver Mine, Luffy, Bartolomeo, and Desire prepare to escape by taking a train track leading above ground. Bartolomeo is excited to follow Luffy, as it makes him feel like a member of the Straw Hat Pirates. Desire turns to the enslaved miners and asks if they want to come with them, but the miners refuse, not wanting to face Bill's wrath. Bartolomeo assures them that Luffy will beat Bill, but they are skeptical of that. However, Desire says that they are only waiting to die down here, so it would be better to take their chances at gaining freedom. The miners decide to accompany them, and they run up the track. However, the group is ambushed by Peseta and his men, who fire cannons at them. The track collapses from the explosions, and Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Fusen to soften his allies' landing. The tracks start falling down on the pirates and miners, but Bartolomeo blocks them with his barrier, and he throws the barrier upward at Peseta to hit him with the pieces of track it collected. Peseta dodges the strike and admires the barrier, and Bartolomeo creates a barrier staircase leading outside.
Peseta and his men once more shoot at the ascending pirates and miners, with Peseta knowing that Bartolomeo can only create a limited area of barrier, which he used on the staircase. The pirates and miners manage to escape the cannon blasts, but Peseta assures one of his men that he has backup plans ready. A platoon of Silver Pirate Alliance members come and block the entrance, firing packs full of Bill's molten ore. However, one of the miners is suddenly replaced by Kin'emon, who cuts through the deluge of ore. The miner Kin'emon replaced is transported to the Going Luffy-senpai, which has docked at Silver Mine. Law had used Shambles to switch the two, and he is left exhausted by the effort. Inside the mine, Luffy knocks out the Silver Pirate Alliance members as he and his allies finally escape the mine. However, Peseta confronts them once again and prevents them from going any further, as he raises up Desire's captured crewmates hung on a piece of track. Peseta uses his hostages to force the pirates and miners to surrender, but the hostages are suddenly cut free by Zoro.
Peseta laughs at Zoro's arrival, remembering how Zoro got caught in his Adhesive Shell the last time they met. An angry Bartolomeo attempts to attack Peseta, but Luffy holds him back because this is Zoro's fight. Peseta fires Adhesive Shells at Zoro, but Zoro cuts through all of them without getting anything stuck on him. Zoro tells a shocked Peseta that it is shameful for a swordsman to get something stuck on him like that, and he uses Three Sword Style to create a whirlwind that sends Peseta and his men flying away, all of them stuck in adhesive. Desire regroups with her crew and tells them to go to the port, but says that she will stay behind a bit longer as she pulls out her blade. The Sweet Pirates go out to sea to wait for her, and the miners depart as well, thanking the trio for freeing them. Luffy and Bartolomeo question if Desire aims to settle things with Bill, which she affirms, and she apologizes to Luffy for her rudeness to him earlier. Zoro and Kin'emon tell Luffy and Bartolomeo that they should get back to the Going Luffy-senpai, and the four of them run off.
Suddenly, a giant wave of molten ore falls onto the wooden bridge, destroying part of it and separating Luffy and Bartolomeo from Zoro and Kin'emon. Bill then appears, and Luffy tells Zoro and Kin'emon to go on without them. Bill laments letting Zoro escape, but he is eager to get his hands on Luffy and his bounty. At sea, the Going Luffy-senpai comes under attack by Battle Boat riders, whom Usopp and Franky successfully repel this time, and Law wonders where Luffy is. On Silver Mine, Desire tells Luffy and Bartolomeo that she will settle things with Bill, but Bill replies that his way of settling things is to smelt everybody on the island. Desire is shocked at this, and Bill states that his true aim is to collect the bounties of the people who allied with him. For that reason, he recruited Desire, a natural leader, by annihilating most of her fleet and rescuing the survivors. Desire becomes enraged at Bill for betraying her, and she prepares to attack him.

Luffy, Bartolomeo, and Desire confront Bill, who mocks their dreams of reaching the top of the New World as childish. Bill reveals to Desire that he used everyone in his Silver Pirate Alliance to give him wealth so that he could live the most luxurious life in the world, and questions whether she really intends to defeat him and if she really believes she is stronger than him. Bill taunts Desire, and she starts rushing at him in anger, but Luffy suddenly flies in front of her with Gear 2 activated and punches Bill into a cliff face. Bill gets back up, and Desire attempts to help Luffy, but Bartolomeo tells her to leave the fight to Luffy. Bill expresses his disgust for Luffy as he pulls two swords out of his chest, but Luffy shatters them in their clash. Bill then pulls out an axe, but Luffy dodges its strikes and kicks Bill in the chest before punching him into another cliff face. Bill gets back up, and realized just how strong a person with a 500,000,000 bounty really is. Right then, a Silver Pirate Alliance Battle Boat squadron arrives at the scene, and Bill tricks them into thinking Desire brought the Straw Hats here to betray them while Desire attempts to tell them the truth about Bill. The Silver Pirate Alliance members attack Luffy, Bartolomeo, and Desire as Bill prepares to kill them all with a bazooka. However, Luffy uses Haoshoku Haki to knock out the pirates and their battle boats, leaving Bill alone and shocked. Luffy sees where Bill is, and Bill fires a cannonball at him, but Luffy shatters it as he punches Bill into the underground mine.
Bill lands deep underground, and Tanaka suddenly arrives at his location. Tanaka expresses disappointment that Bill was defeated by a mere pirate, and says that the Monster of the New World will discard him for such a failure. Bill remembers how the Monster of the New World brought him and his crew down to their knees with the power of money, and frantically begins eating lots of ore in an attempt to salvage his fate. Tanaka notes the large amount of ore Bill is consuming, but decides to leave things up to him as he departs. Meanwhile, Luffy, Bartolomeo, and Desire run to the shore when they are suddenly passed by several Silver Pirate Alliance members. To their shock, the ground underneath them begins erupting with molten ore. Meanwhile, at the Going Luffy-senpai, the Straw Hats and Barto Club continue fighting off the Silver Pirate Alliance as Zoro and Kin'emon return and help them. The pirates wonder why Luffy and Bartolomeo are taking so long, and they notice that Silver Mine is beginning to melt away.
On Silver Mine, Luffy, Bartolomeo, and Desire are approached by Bill, who is incredibly large and exuding molten ore from his skin. The trio decides to retreat, but Bill shoots out several waves of molten ore at them, which Bartolomeo manages to block with a barrier. However, the trio struggles to dodge the flow of ore, and Desire accidentally falls into a chasm, but Bartolomeo catches her. Desire wonders why he is helping her instead of Luffy, and Bartolomeo replies that he would never forsake a friend, although Desire replies that he did that to her. Bill prepares to attack Luffy with molten ore, but Bartolomeo manages to pull Desire up in time for him to put a barrier in front of Luffy. The two of them prepare to defeat Bill, and Bartolomeo creates a barrier hand to push the molten ore back at Bill. Bill then appears before them coated in silver, and he says that their dreams are not enough to help them survive the New World as he creates a ball of molten ore in the air. As Bill prepares to hurl it at the trio, Luffy rushes at him and hits him with Gomu Gomu no Grizzly Magnum, breaking through the ball of ore and sending Bill flying into his palace.
Bartolomeo is excited to have seen Luffy fight, but Desire notes that the molten ore Bill created is still there and is eating away at the island. At the coast, the Silver Pirate Alliance and the Sweet Pirates get everyone onto a large ship as they prepare to escape the island's destruction. The Sweet Pirates worry about Desire, but are forced to set sail. Meanwhile, the Straw Hats and Barto Club are worried about Luffy and Bartolomeo, but Zoro is confident that they are all right since Luffy's vivre card is fine. Right then, Luffy, Bartolomeo, and Desire come riding in on Desire's Battle Boat. Inside Silver Mine, molten ore pours into the fortress as the entire island sinks into the ocean. As dusk falls, the Sweet Pirates board the Going Luffy-senpai, and Desire thanks Luffy and Bartolomeo for taking care of her. Bartolomeo and his crew ask if she and her crewmates want to join the Barto Club, but Desire declines, wanting to pursue their dreams separately and not wanting to serve Luffy. The Sweet Pirates then head out to sea as the Going Luffy-senpai's sails are unfurled and the Straw Hats and Barto Club prepare to head to Zou.
Later in the night, a Revolutionary Army ship draws near to Gran Tesoro. Koala notes that the Monster of the New World resides there, and his power is equal to that of the World Nobles. Inside Gran Tesoro, Tanaka arrives and reports to the Monster of the New World, a man named Gild Tesoro. Tanaka reports that Bill sank along with Silver Mine, but Tesoro is fine as he already had his fun with Bill and now was time for the real entertainment to start.

The Straw Hat Pirates and the Barto Club stare in awe at the giant elephant that Zou is located on as they draw closer to it. Suddenly, Luffy sees the Thousand Sunny docked at one of the elephant's back legs, and the Barto Club is excited to see it. Franky sees that the ship has no major damage, so their crewmates must have escaped from the Big Mom Pirates. Luffy calls out to Sanji, Nami, Chopper, Brook, and Momonosuke, but gets no answer, and he leaps over onto the empty Sunny. Suddenly, the elephant begins moving and drags the Sunny along with it, forcing the Going Luffy-senpai to keep up with it as Bartolomeo makes a barrier staircase to connect the two ships. As the elephant prepares to keep moving, the Straw Hats, Law, and the samurai cross over to the Sunny, and Luffy prepares to get up the elephant quickly and reunite with the rest of his crew.
In the Revolutionary Army headquarters on Baltigo, Monkey D. Dragon receives reports of revolutionary victories on various islands across the world. He then speaks with Koala, who tells him that the weapons they took from Dressrosa were made out of a rare metal. Dragon reveals the metal to be Liquor Iron Ore, and commends the work of Koala and her forces on Dressrosa. He asks about Robin, hearing that she was captured on Sabaody Archipelago, but was relieved to know that was false. As Sabo trains outside, Koala asks Dragon if he wants to know about Luffy, but Dragon changes the subject. He tells Koala to summon all the top members of the Revolutionary Army, and she is surprised that all these very different people are being brought together. Meanwhile, two Blackbeard Pirates ships sail through the New World. Inside one of them, Laffitte and Shiryu get a call from Jesus Burgess. Burgess reveals that he stowed away on a ship and is now on Baltigo, hiding behind a rock formation near the Revolutionaries' base. Burgess tells Laffitte and Shiryu to bring the crew to Baltigo so they could pillage it and obtain many weapons, although he also needs Doc Q since he is on the verge of death.
Meanwhile, Edward Weevil of the Seven Warlords of the Sea stands over the decimated A O Pirates, saying that even though Whitebeard's subordinates considered themselves to be his children, he alone was Whitebeard's true biological son. His mother Buckin, Whitebeard's self-proclaimed lover, affirms this, holding up a picture of Whitebeard and saying that the two had to be related given their similar appearances. Buckin sets her eyes on taking down Whitebeard's 16 division commanders, saying that Whitebeard must have left a fortune to them after his death, but Weevil was the only true heir to it. Weevil states his desire to take down Blackbeard to get revenge for Whitebeard's death, but Buckin berates him, saying that money is more important than revenge. Buckin then receives a newspaper, where she reads about Donquixote Doflamingo being defeated by Luffy. She recognizes Luffy as the one the Whitebeard Pirates protected during the Summit War of Marineford, and decides to have Weevil go after him in order to use him to find the missing Marco.
On Karai Bari Island, the Pirate Dispatch Organization Buggy's Delivery is experiencing a great surge in business. The members of the organization revel in their success, and Buggy tells them to live large as they perform their duties, as his Warlord of the Sea status protects them from the law. Mohji then tells Buggy that Hajrudin has quit working for them, although Alvida says they still have four other giants in their employ. Mohji then reveals that the other four giants quit too, and Buggy demands to know why, persisting despite Mohji's hesitancy to anger his captain with the news.
Back at Zou, the Barto Club expresses their happiness at being with the Straw Hats, despite the Straw Hats ignoring them as Kanjuro works on a large drawing. Kanjuro has the drawing come to life, and it emerges as a big, long, and pink dragon. The Straw Hats are shocked at how pathetic it looks, although Robin thinks it is cute. Usopp thinks it will fly them up to the top, but Kanjuro reveals that it will climb up the elephant's leg instead. The Straw Hats, Law, and the samurai then climb aboard the dragon as the Barto Club tearfully departs, and they prepare to make the daunting journey up and reunite with their crewmates.

The Straw Hats, Law, and the samurai Kin'emon and Kanjuro ride Kanjuro's dragon up the hind leg of a large elephant in order to reach the island of Zou on its back. However, the dragon quickly grows tired and struggles to keep ahold of the elephant's leg, and it slides back down to the Thousand Sunny. The Straw Hats encourage it, with Usopp dubbing it "Ryunosuke", and it continues climbing despite its progress being lost. As Ryunosuke continues climbing, Luffy wonders how Sanji and their other crewmates got up to Zou, and then asks Kin'emon and Kanjuro why they want to go to Zou in the first place. The samurai reveal that Zou was their original destination after leaving Wano Country, and they wanted to reunite with Momonosuke as well as see if their comrade Raizo the ninja, who was separated from them at sea, had made it here. The male pirates are all awestruck to hear about a ninja, and wonder what kind of abilities he has.
Kanjuro jokes around with Kin'emon in response, and the riders suddenly see a small monkey named Bariete falling down towards them. The Straw Hats and Law dodge the falling monkey, but Kin'emon and Kanjuro are distracted from playing around and are hit, causing them to fall off Ryunosuke. The pirates call out to the samurai, who reveal that they are all right and tell them to go on ahead. The monkey then shouts at the samurai for trying to enter Zou without permission, and the Straw Hats try telling Ryunosuke to go back and get the samurai. However, after seeing how much Ryunosuke is suffering, they decide to continue on to the top. As the sun goes down, Luffy goes to sleep as Ryunosuke nears the top. Sleeping causes Luffy to lose his grip on Ryunosuke, and Usopp tries to catch him, but only grabs his backpack as Luffy falls down below. As he falls, Luffy wakes up and grabs hold of Ryunosuke's horns, but this causes Ryunosuke's front legs to lose their grip, causing it to bend over backwards. The Straw Hats encourage it to grab hold of the leg again, and after a great effort Ryunosuke manages to do so and continues climbing. As the pirates near the top, Ryunosuke gives a last push upward, and they reach Zou successfully. However, Ryunosuke turns back into a drawing, and the pirates mourn for it except for Zoro and Law, who considered it only a cheap drawing and wanted to focus on the island they are on.
The pirates walk toward a gateway to a place called the Mokomo Dukedom, and Luffy pulls himself to the top of it, allowing him to survey the entire dukedom. Usopp joins Luffy as the others walk through the gateway, whose gates were destroyed. Luffy leaps off the gate and goes exploring by himself, while the other pirates survey the seemingly abandoned dukedom, noting that the ground is hard to walk on and that there is heavy damage all around them, including faint traces of gunpowder and gas. Meanwhile, a rabbit mink named Carrot spies on them from behind a bush, and is shocked that they managed to get past Bariete. Elsewhere, Luffy runs through an abandoned city, wondering where everyone is and calling out for Sanji's group. Carrot ambushes the other pirates, managing to dodge Zoro's slash and clash with his sword, but suddenly a giant crocodile-like creature bursts onto the scene. Riding it is a canine mink, who tells Carrot to stop her attack as they need to deal with an intruder in the Whale Forest. Usopp then notices in shock that the canine mink is wearing Nami's top.

Luffy races through the abandoned Kurau City, looking for Sanji, Nami, Chopper, Brook, Momonosuke, and Caesar Clown. He then enters the Whale Forest, and is awestruck at the giant tree shaped like a whale in the center. Luffy traverses through the trees, but he is unknowingly being watched by a mink named Pedro. Meanwhile, a canine mink named Wanda stops her fellow mink Carrot from attacking the Straw Hats, saying that they need to deal with an intruder in the Whale Forest. Usopp notices that Wanda is wearing Nami's clothes and becomes paranoid; Robin suggests that the minks could be cannibals, which only frightens Usopp more. Meanwhile, Luffy surveys the Whale Forest, but is suddenly confronted by two minks. Carrot then jumps a very high distance in order to survey the Whale Forest, shocking the Straw Hats with her abilities, and sees a disturbance occurring there. She comes back down and climbs on Wanda's steed Wany, and Wanda gives the Straw Hats directions to get to the Rightflank Forest, where they will find the corpse of their crewmate, which appalls them. Wanda and Carrot ride toward the Whale Forest, with Wanda revealing that the pirates they just met are the Straw Hat Pirates, and that Luffy is probably the intruder in the Whale Forest. However, the Guardians may not show him mercy despite who he is.
Meanwhile, Usopp freaks out about the minks and what happened to their crewmates, and Robin only continues assuming the worst about the minks. However, Zoro and Franky are confident that their crewmates are safe, and Robin asks Law if his crewmates are here as well. Law affirms this, though he did not plan a way to get back to them because he thought he would never seen again, but he realizes he has Bepo's Vivre Card in his possession. Law reveals to the Straw Hats that Bepo is a mink, but left Zou at a young age, and the pirates follow the direction the Vivre Card is pointing toward.
In the Whale Forest, Luffy clashes with a bull mink named Roddy; the two butt heads while Roddy discharges electrical energy. Luffy and Roddy fight evenly, with both parties managing to repel the other. The other Guardian, a gorilla mink named Blackback, wonders how Roddy's Electro does not work on Luffy, who reveals to them that he is made of rubber. Luffy and Roddy continue fighting, when suddenly Bepo, Jean Bart, Shachi, and Penguin arrive at the scene. They recognize Luffy and tell Roddy to stop attacking, as Luffy is a friend, but Roddy refuses. Jean Bart tries to break the two up by force, but an angry Blackback flips him over. An enraged Roddy mounts another charge, but Wanda and Carrot then arrive, throwing a fluttering object to distract Roddy and bananas to pacify Blackback. Luffy asks Wanda why they were attacking him, and Wanda reveals that the Guardians are tasked with keeping intruders out of the Whale Forest. Wanda then talks to Pedro, who is standing on a treetop, apologizing for Luffy's intrusion and telling him to call back the Guardians. Pedro does so, and the large number of Guardians that had secretly surrounded Luffy all disperse; Luffy is bewildered due to not knowing they were there, and Wanda tells him to be glad this was not a moonlit night. Luffy then meets the Heart Pirates, who are initially confused by him referring to Law as "Torao", but are happy to find out their captain is here.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats and Law travel through Kurau City, noticing the massive damage and the lack of anyone here. Robin, Zoro, and Law inspect various buildings as Usopp continues panicking, and the Straw Hats see large claw marks on the buildings, big footprints on the ground, and torture devices with blood on them. Robin then reveals that whatever happened to cause this damage was only a week or two ago, meaning Sanji and the others were likely involved in it. Meanwhile, Wanda reveals to Luffy that the country was destroyed by Jack as Wanda and Carrot emotionally remember the bloodshed that occurred not too long ago. Suddenly, the ground begins shaking, and the minks prepare for the upcoming Eruption Rain. Wanda tells Luffy to get onto Wany and she will take him to his friends, and Luffy is excited to see Sanji and the others. However, Wanda fails to affirm his statement, and Luffy wonders what is wrong.

As Zou begins shaking due to the upcoming Eruption Rain, the Heart Pirates climb on trees while Luffy joins Wanda and Carrot atop Wany's back. At Kurau City, the concerned Straw Hats wonder why Zou is shaking. Wany starts to run as the elephant carrying Zou on its back, Zunesha, lifts up its trunk and spews out a large volume of water onto Zou. The Straw Hats run away, but realize that it is too late to avoid it. Meanwhile, Wany, Wanda, and Carrot are submerged in the raging flood, and eventually emerge from it; they then realize that Luffy has fallen off. They see Luffy flailing in the torrent, and Carrot leaps through tree branches to rescue him. Carrot barely misses Luffy's hand as he sinks underwater and is approached by a shark. Right as Luffy is by the shark's mouth, however, Carrot grabs him and brings him back onto Wany. Meanwhile, Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and Bariete climb back up to Zou on a cat Kanjuro drew, which they call Nekozaemon. Suddenly, the water from the Eruption Rain comes flowing down, which Bariete explains the source of. Kanjuro reveals that the water will cause Nekozaemon to melt as they are hit by the cascade.
Meanwhile, Wany swims through the flood, and Wanda explains to Luffy that Zunesha washed itself twice a day by spraying water on its back. The minks took advantage of this by building aqueduct systems to get drinking water, as well as catching fish to eat. Bepo then arrives by swinging through the trees, and tells Luffy to tell Law where he and the Heart Pirates are since he cannot leave the forest. Carrot tells Luffy that although Bepo is a native of this island, he is still a pirate, and so remains under the care of Master Nekomamushi. At Kurau City, the Straw Hats have escaped the flood on the rooftop of a building, although a frightened Usopp has climbed all the way up a tall tower. Usopp expresses his fright at the Eruption Rain (as the shark cruises by, causing him more panic), and as he looks out he spots Luffy riding with Wanda and Carrot. However, Carrot is biting Luffy, and Usopp thinks that they are eating him. Luffy tries to get Carrot off of him, and they pass by some crucifixes in Kurau City. Wanda and Carrot get emotional as they remember Jack torturing a dog mink in order to get information on someone's whereabouts, but the mink refused to tell him. Luffy asks about Jack again, and Wanda reveals that she read his obituary in the newspaper a few days ago. He had attacked four Marine ships transporting Donquixote Doflamingo, and managed to sink two of them, but was ultimately brought down. However, his death could not be confirmed, and Wanda thinks he is still alive, saying that she will never forgive him.
As the floodwaters finally drain away, Wanda decides to take a shortcut as Wany picks up its speed. As Luffy expresses excitement at exploring Zou, Law suddenly teleports himself and the Straw Hats right in front of Wany. Usopp attempts to use Zoro's power to threaten the minks into handing Luffy over, but a slightly annoyed Wanda states that they mean no harm and are already at their destination, the Right Belly Fortress. Wanda tells the two guards at the entrance that the Straw Hat Pirates have arrived, surprising them. Inside the Right Belly Fortress, Nami is sleeping on a large sheep mink named Yomo, and Chopper comes to her to reveal that their crewmates are here. Yomo accidentally causes Nami to fall off him as he gets up, but Nami is excited for a reunion. Meanwhile, the Straw Hats and Law enter the Right Belly Fortress, and receive an unexpectedly warm welcome from the minks. Zoro confides to Wanda that they had thought minks were hostile to outsiders, but Wanda replies that they considered humans to be hairless versions of themselves and did not judge by appearance, but by character. Nami and Chopper then appear, but are stopped by some affectionate minks. The Straw Hats have an emotional reunion as Chopper happily hugs Usopp, but when Luffy mentions Sanji in his greeting, Nami's expression changes as she embraces him. In tears, she begins to reveal something that happened to Sanji.

Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and Bariete sit on a deformed Nekozaemon after being deluged by Zou's Eruption Rain; they then notice in shock that they have fallen back to the Thousand Sunny. They are intent on continuing, but realize that Nekozaemon is severely deformed and dripping ink, which frightens them. They push Nekozaemon upward, but the severely weakened cat drawing quickly slides back down after taking a few steps, nearly falling into the ocean. Realizing Nekozaemon is unable to continue, and seeing that the sun has nearly set, the samurai decide to return to the Sunny and resume their climb the next morning.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats feast with the minks inside the Right Belly Fortress. The minks show affection to all the pirates by rubbing themselves against them, and Zoro is the only one annoyed by this. Carrot reveals to Usopp that the minks only eat hairless animals, and when Usopp asks why the minks have welcomed them like this, Carrot reveals that it is because they are their saviors' friends. Right then, Brook runs into the fortress, wearing very tattered clothes. Brook greets his crewmates, apologizing to Luffy about Sanji. Usopp asks about Momonosuke, and Brook's expression changes as he reveals that Momonosuke does not seem to like the minks and so is hiding in his room. However, Brook thinks this could be for the best, and gathers his crewmates around him. He tells them to avoid mentioning the words "samurai" and "Wano Country", because doing so could offend and anger many of the people here. However, as Brook reveals the reason behind it, a group of canine minks enter the fortress and drool as they stare in obsession at Brook, calling him "Baron Corpse". The Straw Hats then realize that Wanda was referring to Brook when she told them about finding the corpse of their crewmate, and Wanda reveals that it was their nickname for him since canine minks like them loved chewing on bones. As the canine minks bite and gnaw on Brook, Chopper asks Luffy where Law is, and Luffy reveals that he went to reunite with his crewmates in the Whale Forest. Nami then asks what they are going to do about Sanji, but Luffy and Zoro are not particularly concerned about him since he left a note and did not seem to be kidnapped. However, Nami and Chopper are still worried about him because his departure did not seem right. Franky then interrupts, telling Nami and Chopper that he and the others have no idea what has really happened since the Sunny crew left Dressrosa 11 days ago. The others concur, and Nami agrees to tell them what happened, starting with them being chased by the Big Mom Pirates.
11 days ago, the Curly Hat Pirates were shocked to see the Big Mom Pirates' singing ship pursuing them, with Pekoms, Tamago, and Capone Bege commandeering it in an attempt to capture Caesar Clown. Sanji got permission from Luffy to fight back, and he began a counterattack despite Caesar's protests. The singing ship fired cannonballs at them, and Brook froze all of them with Soul Parade. Chopper activated Monster Point and used Caesar as a bag to hold all the cannonballs, hurling him toward the Big Mom Pirates. Sanji then leaped into the air and kicked Caesar with Diable Jambe, sending the flaming cannonballs flying into the singing ship and causing a massive explosion. Caesar fell towards the water, but Sanji grabbed him and returned to the Sunny. As the Big Mom Pirates dealt with the sudden chaos, Nami created a rainstorm to create fog, which allowed the Sunny to escape.
In the present, the Straw Hats applaud the Curly Hats for their maneuvers, and Nami reveals that they reached Zou the next day. Robin notes that the earliest signs of damage in Kurau City were from just over two weeks ago, and Wanda reveals that by 10 days ago, Zou had mostly been destroyed. Wanda is fine with telling the curious Straw Hats what happened, and prepares to do so, but is suddenly interrupted when a sloth mink arrives at the fortress. The mink reveals that Duke Inuarashi has woken from his coma, which causes the minks to celebrate and Wanda to shed tears of joy. Chopper and the minks Miyagi and Tristan run to Inuarashi's location to tend to him, and the sloth mink tells Wanda that Inuarashi has requested an audience with the Straw Hats. Luffy asks who Inuarashi is, and Wanda reveals that he is the ruler of the Mokomo Dukedom. He had fallen into a coma ever since the dukedom was destroyed along with Nekomamushi, his fellow ruler. The two ruled the dukedom together, with Inuarashi being the Ruler of Day and Nekomamushi being the Ruler of Night.

Law walks through the Whale Forest, and the members of his crew appear in front of him. They have a happy reunion, and go further into the forest to catch up.
Meanwhile, Wanda takes the Straw Hats to see Duke Inuarashi through a passage in the Rightflank Fortress. The Straw Hats gaze in awe at the plants on the ceiling that provide light, and then realize that Luffy is missing. They find Luffy sitting on a tree outside the passageway eating grapes, and continue to be impressed by the beautiful scenery in the Rightflank Fortress. Wanda then reveals that the minks do not usually live in the fortress, but in Kurau City, which used to be intact and full of life. Minks of all shapes and sizes had friendly interactions with each other as they lived normal lives. However, the city was leveled just over two weeks ago, and Wanda prepares to tell the Straw Hats what happened. 17 days ago, the people of Kurau City heard a bell ringing, but soon realized that it was the Raid Bell, which they had rarely heard before. At the gate to the Mokomo Dukedom, Bariete frantically rang the Raid Bell as an unknown force pounded on the gate, and the nearby guards braced themselves for an attack. The invaders finally broke through, causing Bariete to fly into the rampart wall, and he got back up and continued ringing the bell as the invaders, consisting of several armed people and a massive quadrupedal object, raced toward Kurau City.
The invaders entered Kurau City, and the minks retreated as they gathered together in fear. The large object was revealed to be a mammoth, and one of the invaders, Sheepshead, revealed that they were the Beasts Pirates and the mammoth was Jack, one of the three Disasters who are Kaidou's right-hand men. The Beasts Pirates revealed that they were looking for a samurai from Wano Country, Raizo, but the minks claimed that they neither knew Raizo nor his location. Sheepshead berated Ginrummy for calling Raizo a samurai when he was a ninja, but Ginrummy replied that samurai could refer to anyone in Wano Country. Led by Monjii, the minks continued professing that they knew nothing, and offered to let Jack speak with the Duke in peace. However, Jack responded to this by destroying several buildings with his trunk, throwing the minks into chaos, and he refused such an offer as he ordered his soldiers called Pleasures to attack. One of the Pleasures targeted a frightened young mink, but the mink suddenly leaped toward him and struck him with an Electro attack. The rest of the minks followed his example as they blew the rest of the Pleasures away with Electro, and Monjii told Jack that the minks were all born warriors who would step up to defend their country in a heartbeat. Once again, he offered to have the Duke talk to Jack peacefully, but Jack refused any sort of talk as he ordered his Gifters, people with strange animal-like appearances, to attack.
Back in the present, the Straw Hats are all shocked by the story, with Luffy being excited to hear about a mammoth and Brook quietly explaining that this is why he told them not to mention samurai or Wano Country. Luffy then sees that they are on a suspension bridge and rocks it for fun, scaring and infuriating his crewmates. As Wanda continues talking about the Beasts Pirates' search for Raizo, A crestfallen Luffy states that this probably means the ninja Kin'emon talked about was not here, which mortifies his crewmates as Wanda perks up her ears.

Wanda turns around in confusion after hearing Luffy mention a ninja. Usopp, Nami, and Brook immediately start beating Luffy up, and try telling Wanda that they are doing so to show him minkship. However, Wanda knows she heard something about a ninja, and Brook claims on the spot that Luffy was wondering about how the kanja (patient) was doing. Wanda is relieved that the Straw Hats care so much about Inuarashi, and the group draws closer to the Duke's sanatorium. At the sanatorium entrance, a lion mink named Shishilian is throwing other minks into a pit for mentioning sweet things around him. The minks are in awe at Shishilian's intensity but are grateful for his tough love and generosity. However, the mention of such pleasant traits angers Shishilian and causes him to throw part of the sanatorium at them. Wanda and the Straw Hats then meet Shishilian, and Wanda introduces the Straw Hats to them. Shishilian immediately bows down with high intensity and thanks the Straw Hats for saving his country before asking who their captain is. After Luffy steps forward, Shishilian hugs him with great force and displays intense gratitude, rubbing against Luffy's face so fast it starts to burn.
Shishilian leads the Straw Hats into the sanatorium, where Chopper, Miyagi, and Tristan are tending to Inuarashi. The Straw Hats stare in awe at the massive canine mink as Wanda emotionally embraces him, and Inuarashi thanks the Straw Hats for saving his country. Luffy replies that he knows his crew did that despite him not knowing the whole story, and Inuarashi reveals that Luffy's group also helped save them too. Luffy then remarks that Inuarashi looks very strong, and Wanda is shocked at Luffy's rudeness, saying that Inuarashi is the strongest warrior in the country. Inuarashi deflects the statement by reminding Wanda that he was defeated, although Wanda states that they had the upper hand regardless. Inuarashi then turns his attention to Brook and salivates at the thought of chewing him, though he decides to wait for Brook to recover from his injuries. Inuarashi then takes note of the straw hat on Luffy's head, revealing that he and Nekomamushi had once set out to sea and met Shanks. When Luffy attempts to reply, Inuarashi suddenly falls asleep, shocking him. Wanda reveals that the two rulers of the Mokomo Dukedom, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi, hated each other so much that they would easily fight should they encounter each other. Thus, each ruler takes turns ruling, with Inuarashi ruling from 6:00 AM to 6:00 PM while Nekomamushi rules during the other 12 hours. Everyone in Inuarashi's domain is asleep, including Miyagi, Tristan, and Shishilian.
Wanda reveals that the ruler switch took place even in the intense battle with Jack 17 days ago. During the battle, the mink citizens continued repelling the Pleasures with Electro, although Jack easily overpowered them. The Gifters then arrived and started overpowering the minks with their unusual abilities. Right then, the Inuarashi Musketeer Squad came racing in, and the citizens retreated to leave the fighting to them. The Musketeers easily overpowered the Pleasures, but were shocked by the strange powers of the Gifters. Wanda took on one of the Gifters and disarmed him, but the Gifter overpowered her by turning his arm into a wolf's head. However, Shishilian arrived and cut down the Gifter as he and two others, known as the Three Inuarashi Musketeers, arrived. The Three Inuarashi Musketeers easily overwhelmed the Gifters with tremendous power, and Shishilian attacked Jack, but Jack managed to repel him with his trunk after a brief struggle. Right then, Inuarashi arrived on a crocodile-boar steed and told Jack to stop the attack as the two leaders confronted each other.

17 days ago, Inuarashi arrived at the scene of the battle, confronting Jack and the Beasts Pirates and pleading for them to stop their senseless attack. The Beasts Pirates refused to stop until they found Raizo, despite the minks' continued pleas that they did not know him. Tensions rose and the two sides prepared to resume fighting, but Inuarashi shouted for them to wait as he dismounted his steed and approached Jack alone. He unsheathed and raised his sword, but unexpectedly dropped it as he offered Jack the chance to search the entire island peacefully. However, Jack refused and swung his trunk at Inuarashi. The minks were shocked and fearful for their Duke's fate, while the Beasts Pirates were gleeful. Wanda attempted to attack them in anger, but Shishilian held her back as the dust cleared. Inuarashi could then be seen standing and holding Jack's trunk back, relieving the minks and shocking the pirates. The pirates expressed their surprise that the minks had such a strong fighter, although one of them stated that they had nothing to worry about since they followed Jack, a powerful pirate with a bounty of 1,000,000,000. Jack expressed annoyance at his subordinate's boasting, and told Inuarashi that he would only call off his attack once Raizo had been found. Inuarashi was appalled by Jack's lack of reason, and the pirate also stated that he liked causing destruction. Inuarashi then resigned himself to the fact that battle was their only option, and he ordered the Musketeers to attack.
The battle raged on, with the minks using Electro and the Gifters using their animal powers to attack each other. Inuarashi and Jack fought each other one-on-one, and Inuarashi ran up Jack's trunk before driving his Electro-imbued sword into the pirate's head. The attack caused Jack to sway into a nearby building, demolishing it, and the minks grew excited. However, Jack quickly emerged from the wreckage and stated that such an attack would not work on him before charging. Inuarashi said that this was how the gate to the Mokomo Dukedom was destroyed, and he meets Jack's challenge as he swings his sword at the pirate's head, creating a massive clash. Back in the present, the Straw Hat Pirates react in surprise at the account of the large amount of power both sides had. However, Luffy does not care as he says that he will beat Jack someday. Zoro wonders about the outcome of the battle, and Wanda states that it got more intense from there. Inuarashi and Jack continued their clash, with Jack overpowering the Duke and throwing him into a building, although Inuarashi escaped before Jack could slam into him. Three Gifters, known as the Gifters Grip Trio, slaughtered some Musketeers before confronting the Three Inuarashi Musketeers. Shishilian stated that the Three Musketeers would win a 3-on-3 battle, although he quickly dispatched the Gifters Grip Trio by himself immediately afterwards. As the battle continued, Zunesha lifted up its trunk as an Eruption Rain began; the sudden deluge of water swept away the Beasts Pirates, although Jack stood strong and could not be moved. The minks rode crocodile-boar steeds as they overwhelmed the disoriented pirates, although several of them recovered, attempting to fight back and hijack the steeds. Though the minks had the upper hand during the flood, the pirates easily recovered once the water drained and the battle continued.
Much time passed, and the visibly worn Musketeers continued fighting the pirates as the sun began to set. Right then, the clock struck 6:00 PM, and a loud cry came out from the Whale Forest. Inuarashi ordered his troops to retreat, saying that the shift system would still be in place despite the ongoing battle. He then told Jack to not think that he was the only unreasonable man in the city, and the Musketeers vanished from the city. The Guardians, led by Nekomamushi, then raced into the city, with an angry Nekomamushi making threats against the invaders before grabbing Jack by the trunk and flipping him on his back. As Nekomamushi licked his paws, Jack returned to his human form and unsheathed his weapons. The Guardians prepared to battle the Beasts Pirates, when the Heart Pirates suddenly came in to help them. Nekomamushi told Bepo that he was not obligated to fight, but Bepo was determined to defend his homeland, pleasing Nekomamushi. He and Jack then began their clash.

While night still reigns over the Mokomo Dukedom, Wanda continues telling the Straw Hats about the Mink Tribe's battle with Jack, revealing that it lasted five days. 17 days ago, Nekomamushi began an intense and fast-paced clash with Jack, and the mink was surprised that the pirate could keep up with his staff. He managed to get close to Jack and knock him down, although Jack retaliated by knocking the mink a fair distance back. Jack then charged at Nekomamushi, but the mink blocked the attack by spinning his spear. Nekomamushi then sped around Jack and jumped between a few buildings before successfully knocking the pirate off balance. He then prepared a finishing blow, but Jack managed to recover and counter it, although Nekomamushi managed to kick him in the forehead. Jack was unfazed by the blow as he wiped away the mark it left, and Nekomamushi noted that Jack was much tougher to defeat than he anticipated. However, his curious demeanor quickly changed into a ferocious one as he shouted he would kill Jack; the pirate only replied that he would like to see the mink try.
Eventually, 6:00 AM arrived and the Guardians retreated, to the Beasts Pirates' exasperation. Nekomamushi told an unwilling Bepo to retreat before telling Jack to not let Inuarashi kill him so he could finish the pirate off the next night. Inuarashi and the Musketeers then arrived, and the Gifters decided to attack Inuarashi, but were thwarted by the Musketeers as their leader resumed his battle with Jack. Inuarashi managed to overwhelm Jack and knock him into a building, and he complained that because of this he had to smell Nekomamushi's scent, but Jack emerged from the wreckage and knocked him into the building on the opposite side. Inuarashi recovered from the blow, and the two continued to clash. The Musketeers and the Guardians rotated in and out of battle for the next five days, and despite the Beasts Pirates sending in reinforcements from their fleet in the ocean below, the minks eventually managed to get the upper hand. However, they could not overwhelm Jack himself, although Jack was equally unable to take down Inuarashi and Nekomamushi, which resulted in him growing impatient and ending the battle with a poisonous gas weapon.
In the present, the Straw Hats are shocked to hear about this, and Chopper reveals that Jack used one of Caesar Clown's gas weapons to destroy this country. Robin deduces that these weapons made their way from Caesar to Doflamingo, who trafficked it to Kaidou, Jack's captain, and Luffy gets angry at Caesar. 12 days ago, the gas spread into Kurau City, immediately causing Wanda, Inuarashi, and all the other Musketeers to fall to the ground. Except for the ones who retreated to the back of the Rightflank Fortress, most of the minks were subdued and slaughtered, as the Beasts Pirates took pleasure in repeating their question about the samurai that the minks had repeatedly claimed to not know before killing them. In the present, Wanda grows emotional as she recounts the atrocity, but she continues, revealing that the Guardians were also subdued and attacked. However, the pirates were still getting no answer, so they crucified and tortured the strongest mink warriors, including Inuarashi and Nekomamushi. They continued interrogating the minks about the samurai, and the determined Inuarashi and Nekomamushi continued denying any knowledge of one, causing a wrathful Jack to attack both of them. The torture lasted for a full day before Jack departed from Zou, leaving behind some of his men. In the present, Inuarashi reveals that the Straw Hats had caused this, and the pirates are surprised that he is awake. Inuarashi says that he read Jack's obituary and realized that he had tried to rescue Doflamingo, whom the Straw Hats on Dressrosa had brought down. Thus, the Straw Hats had spared them from further attack, and Wanda is even more grateful toward them.
Chopper then reveals that he, Sanji, Nami, Brook, Momonosuke, and Caesar arrived on Zou the day after Jack left. They were all bewildered that Zou was located on an elephant, and Caesar tried convincing them not to enter, but they forced him to carry them up there like a hot air balloon. They went through the destroyed gate, and surveyed the heavily damaged Mokomo Dukedom, with the possibility of invaders putting them on edge. Sanji left Nami, Brook, and Momonosuke at the gate as he took Chopper and Caesar on ahead, and Chopper had to hit Caesar to get him moving. As Sanji, Chopper, and Caesar surveyed the land ahead, Brook, Nami, and Momonosuke pondered about what happened to the country. Suddenly, they heard Tristan cry out for help as she emerged from the forest being chased by Sheepshead and Ginrummy on a crocodile-boar steed. Nami deduced that she was a victim and Sheepshead was a villain, so she pulled Tristan toward safety. Sheepshead turned around as he gleefully stated his desire to torture and interrogate Tristan. Nami left the pirates to Brook, and Sheepshead was appalled at Brook's skeletal appearance. Brook then used Soul Solid to freeze the ground around them, causing Sheepshead and Ginrummy's steed to slip and fall. However, Tristan was frightened by Brook and Momonosuke's strange appearances and ran away, causing the Straw Hats to chase after her, and an enraged Sheepshead got up with the intent of pursuing the pirates. Meanwhile, Sanji, Chopper, and Caesar discovered the gas-covered Kurau City, and were shocked by all the subdued minks lying in the streets. As they prepared to leave in order to avoid succumbing to the gas, Pedro called out to them. The heavily injured mink deduced that the pirates were not on Jack's side and begged them to save Inuarashi and Nekomamushi, saying the world is waiting for them. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi are seen unconscious at their crucifixes, with Inuarashi missing his left leg and Nekomamushi missing his left forearm.

In Duke Inuarashi's sanatorium, Chopper continues telling his crew about the Curly Hat Pirates' arrival on Zou 10 days ago, saying that he, Sanji, and Caesar Clown departed from Kurau City in order to get away from the gas. They convened inside the nearby forest, and Caesar started giggling with glee that his gas weapon, Koro, was a success. Chopper and Sanji were shocked and angry that Caesar created the gas used to incapacitate the minks, although Caesar denied any responsibility for the minks' plight, causing Chopper to beat him up. Caesar also mentioned that the minks likely had less than 48 hours left to live after exposure, angering Chopper and Sanji even more. Suddenly, Zunesha lifted up its trunk and sprayed water onto Zou, causing a flood that swept away Chopper and Caesar. Sanji used Sky Walk to travel over the flood, picking Chopper up and kicking Caesar onto a nearby tree branch, which he and Chopper landed on as well. Caesar was angry at Sanji, but they suddenly heard Nami crying out, and Sanji ordered Caesar to neutralize Koro while he rescued Nami and the others, convincing the scientist to do so by threatening to crush his heart. Sanji flew over to Nami, Brook, and Momonosuke, who were being attacked by Sheepshead. Sanji defeated Sheepshead with a Diable Jambe kick, causing Ginrummy and the other Beasts Pirates to retreat from the island and report that the samurai was not present.
Meanwhile, Chopper and Caesar returned to Kurau City, and Caesar spread a gas called Roko that removed Koro from the air, causing some of the minks to stir. Chopper called out to his crewmates, who ran from the forest to Kurau City, not knowing that Tristan was watching them. Nami, Brook, and Momonosuke were shocked to see the destruction, and they entered the city carefully, not knowing what the minks were like. Suddenly, Wanda came rushing at them, thinking they were allied with Jack. She clashed with Nami, and Nami managed to overpower her, but the weakened Wanda was intent on avenging her people, so she pulled out a lit explosive. However, Tristan came running to them, telling Wanda that the Curly Hat Pirates had saved her, and Pedro then arrived, affirming Tristan's statement and putting out the fuse of the explosive. Wanda grew emotional to hear that they had helpers, and Pedro showed her that the gas had been cleared away. Chopper and Caesar then arrived with medical supplies, with the former being determined to heal all the minks in the short time they had left.
The Straw Hats and the conscious minks mobilized to create an antidote, with Tristan retrieving the mink doctors and citizens hiding in the Rightflank Fortress. Chopper and Caesar started developing the antidote as the mink citizens came to Kurau City, expressing shock at seeing the incapacitated warriors. Eventually, the antidote was finished and administered to all of the poisoned minks, and the unconscious Inuarashi and Nekomamushi were removed from their crucifixes. As night fell, Sanji brought hot soup for the minks to eat, and Brook played Binks' Sake to the crowd of cured minks.
Back in the present, Chopper finishes his story as his crewmates are pleased to hear about the services the Curly Hats did. Luffy gets angry at Jack again for poisoning the minks and expresses his desire to take down the pirate, although he is reminded that Jack received an obituary. However, Wanda expresses her doubt about Jack's death, remembering his monstrous strength. Chopper and Wanda then prepare to go see and tend to Nekomamushi, and Robin asks Wanda about her sleep schedule. Wanda reveals that as a ruler's aide, she can be active at all hours of the day and go anywhere on Zou to communicate with both rulers. She wants to tell Nekomamushi about Inuarashi's state, and the Straw Hats wish to go with her and Chopper to see Nekomamushi.

As Wanda, Carrot, and the Straw Hat Pirates go off to see Nekomamushi, Wanda remarks on the full moon in the sky, saying she is glad it is covered by clouds. Luffy then says that Sanji and Caesar Clown were still present on Zou in her story, asking her what happened to them later. Wanda hesitates, and Brook decides to explain it himself. He tells the Straw Hats that most of the minks were not told about this, and this may be hard for them to hear. He then reveals that Sanji is likely not coming back, which angers Luffy, who pointed to the note Sanji left, which states that he would be back. However, Nami and Brook reply that the situation is far more complicated than what the note suggests, and that it may have been better to tell the story before showing the note.
Brook then tells the story, explaining how when they were being pursued by the Big Mom Pirates, the enemy pirates overheard Luffy's call to the Sunny crew revealing that their destination was Zou. Although Zou was a Phantom Island that could not be found with a Log Pose, one of their Big Mom Pirates was from the island, and so two days ago their ship docked at Zou. On the ship, Pekoms contacted Big Mom, telling her to leave the expedition to him as he was a native Zou. Later, Pekoms and Capone Bege made it onto Zou and into the Mokomo Dukedom, where they discovered the destroyed Kurau City. Pekoms flew into a rage upon seeing his hometown destroyed, and looked around for survivors but found none, causing him to scream in anguish.
Inside the Rightflank Fortress, Sanji prepared meals for the minks, who loved them, and afterwards he went out to interact with the female minks. As Chopper, Miyagi, and Tristan treated patients, Sanji nuzzled with female minks in their traditional greeting known as "minkship", but wanted nothing to do with male minks, leaving them disappointed. Meanwhile, Wanda outfitted Nami with a dress, revealing that exchanging clothes was a big part of mink culture and that the dress was a natural treasure, causing Nami to get excited at the prospect of selling it for big money. Sanji then saw Nami in the dress, causing him to race at her in excitement, but she punched him out of the fortress. Meanwhile, Chopper asked Brook where Momonosuke was, and Brook revealed that he was still in his room, though it was for the best that the minks not see him in his human form. Caesar Clown said that they should abandon him and leave the island as soon as possible, but Chopper got angry at the suggestion, telling him to continue working on treatments for the minks. A mink came to collect treatments from Caesar, but the scientist, mortified at his name being associated with humanitarian treatment, disguised himself. The mink told Brook that his fans were outside, which were dogs looking to chew on the skeleton, and Brook was not inclined to go out and meet them.
At the Fortress gate, the two guards braced themselves as two strangers came up to them, but realized that one of them was Pekoms. Pekoms bawled with happiness as he saw his fellow minks alive, and embraced the two guards. He asked if the Straw Hats had done the damage to the Mokomo Dukedom, but ultimately concluded that they did before the guards could correct him, causing him to go into a fit of rage. Pekoms then entered the Rightflank Fortress, where he reunited with his family and more of his kinfolk. The minks revealed to him that Jack and the Beasts Pirates had destroyed the country while the Straw Hats had saved them, causing Pekoms to curse Jack. The Straw Hats saw Pekoms and Bege from a balcony, and Caesar grew afraid and asked for the Straw Hats' continued protection, but Sanji replied that since Luffy defeated Doflamingo, Caesar was no longer of any worth to them as a trump card. Out of curiosity, Sanji asked why the Big Mom Pirates wanted Caesar, and the scientist replied that he had taken money to fund a commission Big Mom gave him, but he spent it on other things; Sanji replied that he deserved what was coming. Caesar offered to assist Sanji in eliminating the Big Mom Pirates, and the Curly Hats realized that they may be in trouble as well since Luffy had declared war with Big Mom on Fish-Man Island. However, Sanji refused Caesar's advances, and told Brook to come with him and the rest to stay as he made eye contact with Bege.
Back in the present, the Straw Hats remark on two Four Emperors crews being on Zou in such a short timespan, and Luffy wonders if Sanji fought Pekoms, as he does not really care due to having declared war on Big Mom. Brook continues his story, revealing that Sanji and Brook went out with Pekoms and Bege. Sanji was willing to face the two pirates head-on, but stated that if a fight was in order they would have to do it outside of Zou. However, a tearful Pekoms embraced Sanji, shocking the Straw Hats and Bege. Pekoms thanked Sanji for saving his people, and revealed to him that in addition to capturing Caesar, their crew had another mission that would likely tear the Straw Hats apart. However, out of gratitude, he was willing to purposely fail that mission as long as they got Caesar. Bege reprimanded Pekoms, but the mink silenced the newer member of the crew, saying he would take any punishment Big Mom gave him. This caused Bege to grow angry and call Pekoms a coward as he raised his hand toward the kneeling mink's back. Suddenly, a rapid stream of bullets emerged from Bege's hand, striking Pekoms in the back.

Two days ago, Pekoms collapsed as Capone Bege finished shooting him, and a shocked Sanji and Brook noticed two men with machine guns in an opening in the palm of Bege's hand. Bege reflected that Pekoms was cowardly and weak for letting his feelings interfere with business, and told his men to come out. A door opened in Bege's chest, and several miniature gunmen ran out, turning to normal size upon crossing a red barrier around Bege's body. Bege's men surrounded Sanji and Brook, and Bege revealed that he ate the Shiro Shiro no Mi, which allowed his body to become a fortress. He then told them about how he was in the same generation as their captain, and reflected on the trouble Luffy caused him on Sabaody Archipelago when he was forced to fight the Marines. Bege stated that he wished to not make a scene here, as he knew about the minks' strength. Sanji replied that he did not want the minks involved either, and he and Brook prepared to fight against the Fire Tank Pirates. However, Bege knew they would do that and called out to Vito, who brought the captured Nami and Chopper along with him. Vito informed Bege that Caesar Clown was hiding in a nearby tree. Bege threatened to shoot the scientist with seastone bullets, which caused him to fall out of the tree. However, Bege revealed that he had no seastone bullets, but he did have a seastone staff, which one of his subordinates held onto Caesar. Bege then ordered the captured Curly Hats to go into his body fortress.
In the present, Luffy wonders how his crewmates went inside Bege's body, and is reprimanded for forgetting about Bege's ability. Brook continues his story, revealing that they were brought into Bege's body fortress in chains, except for Sanji, who sat at a long banquet table. Bege then appeared in his fortress as a purple liquid before solidifying into his normal body, and offered Sanji some wine as he sat at the other end of the table. As Vito lit his cigar, Bege revealed that the Big Mom Pirates' intentions had changed since the two crews fought a week ago, and he tossed Sanji an invitation to Big Mom's Tea Party. Sanji was confused, but Bege read the contents, revealing that Sanji, as the third son of the Vinsmoke Family, was arranged to marry Pudding of the Charlotte Family. Sanji and his crewmates were appalled, and Sanji's cigarette fell out of his mouth as it gaped open in shock.
Sanji's cigarette fell to the floor and caught on fire, causing an angry Bege to quickly stamp it out. Bege called Sanji ill-bred, and Brook stated that the name Vinsmoke sent chills down his spine. Nami, Brook, and Chopper struggled to process the revelation about Sanji, and Nami recalled how Sanji revealed that he was from the North Blue, though grew up in the East Blue, when they read Liar Noland on Jaya. Brook was surprised to hear this, as the North Blue and the East Blue are separated by the Red Line, which very few people could travel across. Caesar then revealed to them that Pudding was Big Mom's daughter, meaning that they would likely become Big Mom's subordinates if Sanji got married, which scared them. Sanji refused to go to the tea party and get married, but Bege replied that the invitation was for him to see, not for him to respond to. The pirate then revealed that his body was moving with them inside it, and that he had full control over it. He manipulated the chandeliers and rugs into knives and cannons pointed at Sanji as he caused Nami to sink into the ground, displaying his unlimited power over his fortress. Sanji shouted at him to stop, and Bege did, stating that Big Mom's invitation could not be refused no matter what. Vito then walked over to Sanji and reiterated his captain's point, saying even the demons of Hell would come to Big Mom's tea parties if they were invited. Vito then whispered something into Sanji's ear which shocked him, and Sanji asked how they knew that, which Bege called a silly question.

Two days ago, after Vito whispered something into Sanji's ear, a shocked Sanji asked Capone Bege how they knew that. Bege called that a silly question, telling Sanji that Big Mom possesses unfathomable power and influence, allowing her to find out and do anything she wants. Sanji took more puffs from his cigarette as Nami, Chopper, and Brook asked what Vito had told him, and he asked Bege for a pen and paper. Bege obliged, and Sanji wrote a note on the paper before handing it to Nami. He told his chained crewmates that he never expected to deal with this part of his heritage, and that he needed to go and sort things out by himself. As his crewmates got confused, Sanji asked them if they were ready before hurling them out of Bege's body.
As Nami, Chopper, and Brook returned to normal size and hit the ground, an appalled Caesar Clown wondered why Sanji did not free him as Sanji started attacking the panicked Fire Tank Pirates. Vito warned his crewmates that they could not harm the Straw Hat, and Sanji kicked one pirate's gun into the air. He then grabbed the gun and slammed Caesar's head into the floor with his foot, pointing the gun at the scientist. As Caesar writhed in anger and the Fire Tank Pirates took aim, Sanji shouted at them that he knew they could not touch him, as he had figured out that the person who changed the condition of his bounty to "Only Alive" was the same person arranging the wedding. Thus, the person did not want the Fire Tank Pirates to harm him in any way. Sanji agreed to go to the wedding with the pirates as long as his crewmates were spared, and Bege ordered his men to stand back as he noticed Nekomamushi standing behind his real body.
Bege grew nervous to see the monstrous mink, and Nekomamushi asked about Pekoms' body. Bege claimed that the two of them were crewmates and that Pekoms had been taken out by remnants of Jack's forces. Nami then came and contested his story, which Bege denied as she, Chopper, and Brook looked inside Bege's body to see Sanji. Sanji turned toward them and promised to come back as Bege closed the openings into his body. The pirate captain then leaped away and manifested tank treads around his legs, allowing him to speed away. Nami raced after him but failed to catch up, and Sanji's note flew off of Nami, coming unfolded as it landed on the ground. Wanda then arrived to help the Straw Hats, but Nekomamushi stopped her. Brook came to the realization that Sanji would likely not come back as the contents of his note were revealed, which stated that he was going to meet a woman and would be back. As the Guardians tended to the Straw Hats and removed their chains, Nekomamushi told Wanda to let the Straw Hats keep the details of the incident to themselves, as it was what they wanted. He also had his soldiers transport the injured Pekoms to medical care before leaping into a bush of silver vine.
Back in the present, the Straw Hats process the news, and Luffy wonders if Sanji will come back with his wife. However, Brook reminds him that the bride is Big Mom's daughter, meaning that they would become Big Mom's subordinates. Thus, it seemed as though Sanji went alone in order to cut himself off from the crew and deal with the situation himself, preventing the Straw Hats from falling under Big Mom's control. Usopp reflects on the Vinsmoke name, noting that they had journeyed from the North Blue to the East Blue and then to the New World, which is a very considerable feat; Robin states that she recognizes the name. Nami apologizes for allowing him to leave before the rest of the crew got here, and Robin is fine, though Chopper is not since he does not know if Sanji is coming back. However, Zoro is fine with that, as he states that Sanji had put them into more trouble. They were already in conflict with Kaidou due to crippling his SMILE trade and going against his crew, and now Sanji had gotten involved with another Emperor, Big Mom. Some of the Straw Hats get angry at Zoro, but Luffy interjects, stating the only thing they could do now is go into Big Mom's territory and find Sanji to ask about his motivations. His crewmates are appalled at the idea of invading an Emperor's territory, but Brook states that the Big Mom Pirates left behind someone who could help them. He then focuses back on the present, intent on continuing the journey to Nekomamushi.

As the Straw Hats, Wanda, and Carrot ride to the Whale Forest, Brook reveals that Pekoms had agreed to spare their crew from Big Mom's plan out of gratitude for them saving his people, but this proved to be his undoing as Capone Bege shot him and left him on the island. However, because of this, the Straw Hats could now gain information on Big Mom's location, and Luffy promises to get Sanji back from her. As Usopp wonders what condition the lion mink is in, a swarm of yellow insects flies toward the group. Wanda and Carrot reveal that the insects are bloodsuckers known as Sutchies, and they can easily kill humans due to their lack of fur. Wanda reveals that the Sutchies are also capable of feeding on and weakening Zunesha, and the Sutchies bite into the steed Luffy's group is riding on, causing it to fall to the ground. The Straw Hats recover and battle the Sutchies, and Franky uses his Nipple Light to lure the Sutchies to him. Wanda prepares to help exterminate the Sutchies as one of them bites into Luffy, although the pirate manages to repel it by covering his arms in Busoshoku Haki. The Straw Hats and Wanda all unleash powerful attacks on the Sutchies, sending the remainder of the swarm falling to the ground. Wanda thanks the Straw Hats for their continued help, and the group resumes their journey to see Nekomamushi. Brook then sings a song about going to see Nekomamushi, which initially consists of him saying the same line over and over, to Luffy's confusion. Brook then sings about how Nekomamushi lives a lonely life before concluding, and the Straw Hats wonder if Nekomamushi was like that. However, Brook admits that he only made the events of song up, shocking them.
The group then reaches the Whale Forest Residential District under the giant Whale Tree, and the Guardians cheer for the oncoming Straw Hats. Luffy is greeted by Roddy and Blackback, who apologize to him for attacking him earlier, saying they sometimes get too zealous against intruders. Pedro then calls out to Straw Hats from a tree, thanking them for saving the Mink Tribe and seconding the apology to Luffy, as he was present during the attack. He then leaps down from the tree and tells Luffy that the Heart Pirates are waiting for them in the back, but Luffy wants to see Nekomamushi and Pekoms first. Upon hearing Luffy mention Pekoms, Pedro nuzzles up to Luffy. He whispers to Luffy that Pekoms is recovering in the back of the main building, but the details of the attempt on his life have not been made public to the other minks. He then confides that he knows Sanji is in a predicament, and offers the Guardians' help. A female reindeer mink named Milky then arrives to take Chopper to see Nekomamushi, and Chopper becomes smitten with her. However, Milky reveals that Nekomamushi is currently taking a bath, shocking Chopper.
Inside the main building, Nekomamushi eats lasagna while taking a bath, and Chopper rushes in, yelling at him angrily for doing so as his wounds would reopen. Nekomamushi refuses to accept such restrictions due to his love of freedom as he climbs out of the tub, and he hugs the other Straw Hats in gratitude. In the middle of the embrace, Nekomamushi spots a bouncing ball, causing him to leap after it and reopen his wounds. He is then sent to bed, and Chopper prepares to administer an injection to him. Fearing the pain of a needle, Nekomamushi has Robin wave foxtail in front of him, distracting him enough for Chopper to give him the shot. Meanwhile, Luffy, Nami, Wanda, Carrot, and Pedro meet with Pekoms, who reveals that he survived by absorbing many of Bege's bullets with his Devil Fruit power. He apologizes for not being able to keep Sanji out of captivity, and Luffy asks him who is arranging the wedding. Pekoms replies that it is Big Mom and Sanji's father, the patriarch of the Vinsmoke Family. The father is an infamous man in the Underworld, and leads an army known as Germa 66. Nami is shocked to hear this, thinking Germa 66 is a mythical army, but Pekoms affirms its reality, stating that Sanji comes from a family of killers.

After Pekoms reveals that Sanji comes from a family of killers, Luffy replies that he does not care, and only wants to know if Sanji will come back or not. He states that although he is fine with Sanji getting married, he does not want to serve Big Mom, and so the Big Mom Pirates will have to serve him instead. The audacious statement causes Pekoms to go hysterical and bump his head on the wall, causing him to bounce and fall out of bed, which inflames his wounds. Luffy and Carrot laugh at Pekoms' display, and as Pekoms gets back into bed, he reveals that Sanji has no choice about attending the wedding, as anyone who refuses Tea Party invitations will receive a gruesome present: the decapitated head of someone close to them. Big Mom could easily give Sanji the head of one of his crewmates, or one of his fellow cooks from Baratie, or even someone from the Kamabakka Kingdom, as her status as an Emperor allows her enough power to do anything she wants.
Nami notes that this may have been what Vito whispered to Sanji two days ago, and Pekoms reveals to Luffy that the marriage will not force the Straw Hats to serve Big Mom, as the Emperor is only interested in Sanji's family. However, Pekoms says that the marriage will mean Sanji will no longer be part of the Straw Hats, which causes an angry Luffy to throttle him by his shirt collar. Luffy refuses to accept the possibility of Sanji leaving, and as he forces Pekoms onto the floor, he asks the mink what he is going to do. Pekoms replies that he will head back to Big Mom after he recovers in order to get back at Capone Bege for attacking him, and Luffy tells the mink to take him along. Nami protests, and Luffy tells her that he will be going alone in order to better infiltrate Big Mom's territory. Pekoms tries to dissuade Luffy as well, and Carrot gets excited at Luffy's plan, causing Wanda to reprimand her. Pekoms' protests fall on deaf ears, and Luffy runs off to get Chopper so Pekoms can feel better sooner, causing the mink to fall off his bed once again.
Luffy runs out to the porch, where he sees Zoro sitting on a bench. He asks if Zoro heard the conversation, and Zoro replies that he just barely did. Luffy grins, wondering if Zoro is concerned about Sanji, causing Zoro to get mad. Chopper, Milky, Usopp, Robin, and Brook then come to the building, and Luffy tells Chopper that Pekoms is screaming and hitting his head against the wall, causing Chopper to rush inside to treat him. Brook is then attacked by several dog Guardians who chew on him, and Nekomamushi then approaches despite Chopper's order to get rest, greeting Luffy and leaping into him and Zoro, which destroys part of the porch. Nekomamushi becomes dazed and his wounds reopen, and as the Straw Hats wonder what to do with him, Law and the Heart Pirates then approach Luffy. The 20 members of the Heart Pirates happily greet Luffy, but Law pulls him aside to talk, disappointing his crewmates.
Luffy and Law go inside, where Luffy reveals Sanji's situation and his intention to enter Big Mom's territory, and he asks Law to hold off on their mission against Kaidou. However, Law replies that they likely do not have that option, as Kaidou is increasingly likely to attack them, especially since he knows how to get to Zou. Law wonders what will happen to this country if it is attacked by the Beasts Pirates again, and the Guardians suddenly appear, crying tears of happiness in appreciation for Law's concern for them. They throw a party for the two pirate crews, and everyone feasts as Nekomamushi unveils the main dish, lasagna. As the party rages on, Luffy wonders if he has forgotten something, but cannot remember anything and continues partying. Meanwhile, Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and Bariete ride a creature up Zunesha's leg, and as the pirates and Guardians fall asleep after the party, Robin, Franky, and Brook sit down at the entrance to the Mokomo Dukedom. They are intent on preventing Kin'emon and Kanjuro from getting in, as they believe that the minks will not take kindly to allies of Raizo, who caused Jack to destroy the country. Robin suggests taking turns through the night, but Franky and Brook decide against it, and they all keep watch together. However, the next morning, they are all sound asleep as Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and Bariete reach Zunesha's back on a rotund tiger named Torasaburo. The samurai celebrate as Kanjuro turns Torasaburo back into a drawing again. They then turn to Bariete to ask him for information, revealing they are comrades of Raizo. This causes Bariete to panic and run from them in tears, intent on alerting the other minks to the presence of samurai.

As day breaks over Zou, Robin, Franky, and Brook wake up and they realize that they slept through the night. They then see the drawing of Torasaburo right next to Ryunosuke, and realize that Kin'emon and Kanjuro have gotten onto the island. The trio know that the minks are not going to take well to the samurai mentioning their comrade Raizo, as Jack and the Beasts Pirates destroyed the Mokomo Dukedom while looking for the nonexistent Raizo, and so they race to stop the samurai. Meanwhile, Bariete races up the steps to a bell, and he rings the bell as he calls out the samurai's arrival. Inside the Rightflank Fortress, a crocodile-boar steed is prepared for Inuarashi, who mounts it and tells Shishilian to round up everyone else and follow him as he rides toward Kurau City. Shishilian tells Inuarashi's subjects to do as they were told, but the subjects were told nothing, and he orders them to come with him and follow Duke Inuarashi. Meanwhile, Nekomamushi and the Guardians run out to Kurau City, with Nekomamushi stating that this is a serious incident and telling everyone to not fall behind.
The Guardians run around the sleeping Straw Hat Pirates, and as Nami wakes up she overhears one of them reveal that two samurai have appeared. A shocked Nami tries to wake Luffy up, but struggles to do so. Meanwhile, Kin'emon and Kanjuro walk through the forest and hear the bell, and they wonder if it is welcoming them. Suddenly, they hear a rustling in the bushes, and Momonosuke emerges, happily reuniting with his father and Kanjuro. He reveals that no one was around when he woke up, and so he went looking for people. Nearby, the Straw Hats run through the woods, and a half-asleep Luffy wonders why they are running right now. Nami reveals that the samurai have entered Zou, and Luffy gets excited at the prospect of another party to welcome them, but Nami states that the minks have a score to settle due to the samurai's comrade causing the Mokomo Dukedom's destruction. The Musketeers and Guardians race into Kurau City, and Pedro leaps up a tall building in order to see the entire city. However, he sees Inuarashi walking nearby and tries to warn Nekomamushi, but the ruler cannot hear him. Inuarashi appears at the intersection directly behind Nekomamushi, and one of the Guardians sees him in shock, but they try their best to prevent the two rulers from seeing each other. However, when Shishilian enters the intersection, he sees Nekomamushi and gasps, causing the two rulers to turn around and see each other.
The two rulers approach each other despite their underlings trying to stop them, and a short distance away stand the samurai, who have reached Kurau City and wonder what is going on. The Straw Hats then reach the city and tackle the samurai, hiding them behind a piece of rubble. They tell the samurai to go back to the Thousand Sunny, as the samurai's presence would just add fuel to the fire. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi immediately start insulting each other, bringing attention to each other's missing limbs. Inuarashi remembers Jack torturing him for Raizo's whereabouts, but the dog mink had continued denying any knowledge of the ninja, causing Jack to cut at and eventually sever his lower left leg. Around that time, some of the Beasts Pirates tried to get information out of Nekomamushi by threatening his fallen comrades, but Nekomamushi called them cowards and pulled on the chains binding him to the crucifix, challenging the shocked pirates to give him all their attacks. Back in the present, the two rulers state that they would have been fine with each other's death, and decide to fight to the death right now despite their underlings' pleas.
As Inuarashi's sword clashes with Nekomamushi's spear, Kin'emon suddenly breaks Usopp's grasp on him and heads out into the open in order to stop the fighting. Momonosuke and Kanjuro then emerge despite the Straw Hats grabbing onto them, and the minks are surprised to see the samurai as they approach the trio. Kin'emon then introduces himself as a retainer of the Kozuki Family from Wano Country and reveals that he is looking for his comrade Raizo. The Straw Hats cry in fear and wonder if they need to fight to get out of this, but all of the minks suddenly sit down. In tears, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi reveal that Raizo is safe. The Straw Hats are bewildered by this, and Usopp confronts the minks in disbelief about them risking all their lives to protect Raizo. However, Nekomamushi reveals that they have been friends with the Kozuki Family for a long time, and would do anything to keep their allies safe even if it meant the destruction of their civilization; this revelation moves the Straw Hats to tears.

Somewhere at sea, the fleet of the Beasts Pirates is sailing. Inside the damaged but still functional Mammoth, a recovering Jack sits belowdeck and reads the newspaper article about his supposed death. Mocking such a thought, Jack shreds the newspaper and orders his men to make the ship move faster.
In order to verify his claim of being a retainer of the Kozuki Family, Kin'emon removes his kimono, revealing the crest of the family on his back. Behind him, the Straw Hats ponder in shock about this sudden turn of events, but understand why the samurai kept their allegiance a secret from them. Nekomamushi interrupts Inuarashi as the latter talks to the samurai, causing Inuarashi to shout at him and the two to trade insults once again. However, as they start fighting and prepare to physically clash again, Momonosuke shouts at them to stop, expressing disappointment at the two's enmity and saying it would make his father sad. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi then bow down to Momonosuke, and the Straw Hats are confused, as they thought Kin'emon was Momonosuke's father and just heard Kin'emon refer to Momonosuke with the suffix -sama. Kin'emon reveals that Momonosuke is actually not his son, and instead is Kozuki Momonosuke, the son and heir of the daimyo of Kuri, Kozuki Oden. Kin'emon apologizes for lying to the Straw Hats, as he and Momonosuke had pretended to be father and son in order to protect themselves. The Straw Hats' bewilderment just keeps growing, and Momonosuke approaches the Straw Hats to apologize to them himself. However, Luffy does not care about Momonosuke's heritage, causing the two of them to get into a fight. Momonosuke demonstrates his perverted nature afterwards, but everyone is happy. In order to keep Momonosuke happy, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi reluctantly decide to make a truce, and they clasp hands. This causes the minks to rejoice at Zou becoming reunited, at least for now.
Inuarashi and Nekomamushi then take the Straw Hats, Law, and the samurai to see Raizo. They travel up a path on the Whale Tree, and Luffy, Chopper, Usopp, and Franky are excited at the chance to see a real ninja. Momonosuke tells Kin'emon that he is still not feeling well, saying that he hears a voice calling out to him from within; Kin'emon replies that Oden had the same ability. As the male Straw Hats grow more excited to see Raizo and imagine him as a stereotypical ninja, they reach a hidden entrance in the back of the Whale Tree. The Straw Hats run down to see the ninja, and they hear Raizo cry out from inside. As Inuarashi and Nekomamushi come down to the cave, a tearful Raizo asks what happened, as he noticed that the minks giving him food were all injured. The Straw Hats then arrive and see Raizo chained to a red poneglyph; they are shocked that he is very stocky and does not anywhere closely resemble the ninja they had imagined.

Nekomamushi apologizes to Raizo for lying to him and trapping him here for his protection, and Raizo then sees Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and Momonosuke coming down the stairs. The four Wano Country natives happily reunite, and Raizo is released from his chains by his comrades. Robin, Nami, and Brook then reach the bottom of the stairs, and they look in awe at the Kozuki Family crest on the wall and the giant red poneglyph in the center. Robin asks Inuarashi and Nekomamushi for permission to read it, which they grant her. Robin recalls studying the poneglyphs on Ohara before its destruction, and notes that this poneglyph's red color is much different from every other poneglyph she has read, which were all blue. Inuarashi replies that this poneglyph has a different purpose.
Meanwhile, Raizo is perturbed by Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper for staring at him intently, and the three Straw Hats tell him to perform various ninja arts and act like a stereotypical ninja. Raizo is confused as to why they want to see that, and Franky replies that all men love ninjas. Raizo is smitten by this praise, and Franky, Zoro, and Law join in on asking him to perform ninja arts, but he plainly tells them that ninja do not act like the pirates have imagined and they do not perform their skills for show. This causes the Straw Hats to sulk in disappointment, and Raizo is eventually moved, causing him to use Enton no Jutsu and disappear before reappearing behind Usopp. Raizo then uses Bunshin no Jutsu to make clones of himself, and Kawarimi no Jutsu to escape from Luffy's grasp. He runs on the ceiling and uses his Hana Shuriken to form the kanji for shinobi on the wall, and he concludes his performance, causing the male Straw Hats to be in glee and awe. Afterwards, the male Straw Hats and the samurai take Raizo outside, where they see the destroyed Kurau City from atop the Whale Tree. Raizo and the samurai burst into tears for the destroyed city, with Raizo remembering it as a bustling town before the attack. Raizo curses the minks for taking rash actions to protect him, and vows to avenge them as best he can.
Nekomamushi then appears and calls the pirates and samurai back in, revealing that the red poneglyph has been translated. Inside the Whale Tree, Nami notes that the text Robin translated is nautical coordinates that she can pinpoint the location of on a chart. Inuarashi reveals that this is a Road Poneglyph, which will guide people to the end of the Grand Line. The Whale Forest is considered sacred and is heavily protected for this very reason. The Straw Hats assume that this means the Road Poneglyph leads them to Laugh Tale, but Inuarashi corrects them, saying that there are actually four Road Poneglyphs. Each of them reveal the coordinates of an island, and when all four of these islands are found, one can connect them and finally locate Laugh Tale and find the One Piece. The Straw Hats become extremely excited to hear about something relating to their final goal.

Luffy and the Straw Hats get excited upon discovering that they can reach Laugh Tale and the One Piece with the Road Poneglyphs, and Luffy races off to rescue Sanji and find the other Road Poneglyphs. His crewmates stop him, but Nekomamushi states that Luffy's plan will lead him to them, because two of the Road Poneglyphs are in the possession of the Emperors Big Mom and Kaidou. The Straw Hats are appalled to hear this, though Luffy takes it in stride, as he planned on beating the Emperors anyway. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi reveal that the Poneglyphs' messages can be copied with ink on a special paper, and Usopp proposes that they sneak into Big Mom and Kaidou's territories, copy the text, run away, and reach Laugh Tale without anyone realizing it. However, Luffy rejects his idea due to it being cowardly, and Usopp is frightened by the amount of power they are going against. Meanwhile, Nekomamushi voices his concern for Robin, as she is the only one who can read the text on the Poneglyphs, making her a target for others who want to find out the true history of the Void Century. However, Robin is confident that her crewmates will protect her as she remembers them rescuing her on Enies Lobby, and the other Straw Hats pledge their continued resolve to protect her.
Meanwhile, Jack dreams about ordering his men to attack the four Marine battleships transporting Doflamingo a week ago. Sengoku, Fujitora, and Tsuru braced themselves for battle, and Doflamingo smiled as the Marines raced to their battle stations. The Marines and the Beasts Pirates opened fire on each other, but the Mammoth managed to evade the fire as it charged at the ship with Sengoku, Fujitora, and Tsuru on it, and Fujitora unsheathed his sword as he prepared to unleash his power on Jack's ship. However, Jack is woken from his dream by his crewmates, who reveal that Sheepshead, Ginrummy, and the men he left on Zou have returned.
Back in the Whale Tree, Robin asks the minks and the samurai how they know so much about the Poneglyphs. The minks and samurai look to Momonosuke for an approval, and their master states that they do not have to hide anything from the Straw Hats. Luffy gets mad at Momonosuke for acting like he is in charge, even though he is. Nekomamushi then reveals that 800 years ago, the members of the Kozuki Family invented the Poneglyphs, which shocks the Straw Hats. The knowledge of how to construct them was not passed down, only how to read and write the inscriptions. However, that was not passed down to Momonosuke from his father Oden, and the samurai struggle to reveal the reason why, though many of the Straw Hats figure it out. As he and his fellow retainers struggle to hold back tears, Kin'emon reveals that Oden was executed by Kaidou and the shogun of Wano Country. The Beasts Pirates now occupy Wano Country, and when the Straw Hats inquire as to why they killed Oden and have continuously pursued Momonosuke and the samurai, Kin'emon reveals that Oden once traveled with Gol D. Roger, reaching Laugh Tale and learning the secret of the world.

As everybody reacts to learning that Momonosuke's father Oden, who was executed, travelled to Laugh Tale on Gol D. Roger's ship, Robin realizes that Oden must have known about the Void Century, which the archeologists of Ohara spent their lives studying. Zoro believes that this is the reason that Kin'emon's group of samurai were targeted by Doflamingo and Caesar, who have ties with Kaidou, even though Oden kept all the information to himself for the safety of his people.
Kin'emon, as well as all the other retainers, say they plan on fighting back because of Oden's last words, which were, "Open up Wano Country!" The reason the samurai came to Zou is to ask their allies, the Minks, to help them fight and the rest of the samurai, excluding Momonosuke, ask Law and Luffy for their help. The rest of the Straw Hats accept the offer without any hesitation, but Luffy declines the request. As the group try to knock some sense into their captain, Luffy calls out the crying Momonosuke and says he should be requesting their aid if he is the supposed leader of Wano Country. Momonosuke steps up and pleads for Luffy's help to take down Kaidou, as he is too small right now but still wants to protect all of his retainers. Luffy then accepts Momonosuke's request and the rest of the leaders unite to form the Ninja-Pirate-Mink-Samurai Alliance, whose goal is to defeat the Emperor Kaidou.

Luffy expresses his excitement for the upcoming battle with Kaidou, and the members of the newly formed Ninja-Pirate-Mink-Samurai Alliance once again celebrate their formation. However, Luffy then brings forth a condition to their alliance, as he requests that he go rescue Sanji from Big Mom before the final war. Nekomamushi remembers Sanji, but Inuarashi does not due to having been in a coma at the time, and Nekomamushi explains to him who Sanji was and how he left Zou. Luffy is warned about the danger of the mission, but he is confident since he does not plan to fight Big Mom and will be accompanied by Pekoms, whom he calls "Pekomamushi", which causes Nekomamushi to laugh and Inuarashi to be confused. Meanwhile, the minks in Kurau City rejoice about the newfound peace between Inuarashi and Nekomamushi, looking forward to their schedules being less strict and planning to prepare a banquet.
Meanwhile, Jack's fleet sails the seas, and Jack sits next to Sheepshead, who is heavily injured and hanging upside down. Having punished him for returning to him without finding Raizo, Jack continues berating Sheepshead, and Ginrummy silently hopes Sheepshead does not say anything about why they left, as Jack would certainly not be happy to hear that not only were the minks still alive, but that his members were chased away by another pirate crew. The fleet then draws closer to Zou as the Beasts Pirates prepare to finish off the minks and complete their mission, but Jack states that they will not confront the minks again. Instead, they will attack Zunesha, the giant elephant carrying Zou itself, and his crew members are awed at the notion of attacking such a giant being.
Meanwhile, the Ninja-Pirate-Mink-Samurai alliance heads back outside, and Inuarashi mentions how he and Nekomamushi once sailed with the Roger Pirates. Luffy is awed to hear this, and Inuarashi clarifies, saying they accompanied Oden as his attendants and previously sailed with the Whitebeard Pirates as well. The Straw Hats are amazed to hear about the rulers' histories, and Usopp hurriedly writes their accounts in his notebook. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi gleefully remember the times of adventure they had, to the point of dancing together, which Usopp notes is quite the contrast to when they were trying to kill each other a very short time ago. However, Nekomamushi reveals that he and Inuarashi did not go to Laugh Tale, and Kin'emon states that he, Kanjuro, and Raizo did not accompany Oden due to it being a crime to go beyond Wano Country's borders. Momonosuke states that he was too young to remember much about his father's journey, but the Straw Hats immediately call him out due to Roger's voyage being over two decades ago. Franky then asks Inuarashi and Nekomamushi if they remember Tom, and the two rulers do and are happy to hear of him.
As Brook is about to ask the rulers if they remember Crocus, Nami interjects and asks about the Log Pose, recalling how Crocus told them it would lead to their final destination on the Grand Line and wondering how it reconciles with their new discovery about how the Road Poneglyphs are needed to reach Laugh Tale. However, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi reply that Crocus' statement is indeed accurate, as the Straw Hats will need to bring all the information they have gathered on Laugh Tale and the True History to the final island, which will cause the final island to have an integral role in allowing them to go beyond it and find Laugh Tale. Nekomamushi fondly recalls Crocus and how he was going to look for a pirate crew from long ago; Brook then reveals that he is from that crew and that the rest of his crewmates died, which shocks Nekomamushi. The alliance then reaches the bottom of the Whale Tree, and as Luffy plans to go and get Sanji back, Nekomamushi states that he has allies to recruit as well for the battle against Kaidou: Marco and the remaining Whitebeard Pirates.

Zou continues to shake from the cannon fire of the Beasts Pirates' fleet hitting Zunesha's leg, and the people on Zou struggle to stand; as this happens, Luffy and Momonosuke writhe in pain due to having an overpowering noise inside their heads. The buildings in the Guardians Residential District begin collapsing, and one falls on Tristan, but Franky catches it and saves her. Wanda tells everyone to congregate together and get away from the buildings, but several trees are uprooted and fall on them. However, Zoro cuts apart the falling trees, and Raizo throws shuriken on the ground to prevent the wood slices from bouncing onto the minks. Momonosuke collapses due to the pain inside his head, and as Kin'emon and Kanjuro tend to him, he receives a vision where he sees Jack and his fleet attacking Zunesha. Momonosuke then reveals the cause of Zou quaking, and the Musketeers and Guardians race to their ships to take on Jack in a naval battle, determined to win this time.
Zunesha then talks directly to Momonosuke, warning him that if Jack's forces brought it down, everyone on Zou would be in grave danger. It reveals that it was condemned to walk across the ocean for eternity, and could only act otherwise if it was ordered to. The Beasts Pirates' cannon fire then manages to severely weaken Zunesha's front left leg, causing it to tilt even more and force the people on Zou to hang on for dear life. The Beasts Pirates celebrate their success, and Jack anticipates finishing Zunesha off. Zunesha begs Momonosuke to give it the order to attack Jack and protect everyone on Zou, and after struggling to regain his composure, Momonosuke gives Zunesha the order, shouting it across the entire island on its back. Zunesha's voice composure then changes and it steps forward with its front left foot, perturbing the Beasts Pirates as it understands the order. Zunesha then swings its trunk across the ocean, causing a massive wave that sends Jack's fleet flying into the air. Finally, it swings its trunk right into the fleet, completely annihilating it and breaking Jack's mask as it blows him and his crewmates into the ocean along with the large wreckage of their ships. Zunesha then resumes its walk.
Bariete witnesses the scene while hanging off a chain going down Zunesha's left flank, and hurriedly races off in shock to report what happened. Zou stops shaking, and everyone on it wonders what has happened, with Momonosuke not hearing anything anymore. Bariete then comes to them and reveals that Jack's fleet has been destroyed by Zunesha, causing everyone to be joyful. Inuarashi is surprised that Zunesha has a mind of its own, and Usopp asks if Jack is dead since he is a Devil Fruit user that fell into water, which Nekomamushi affirms, causing Usopp to be greatly relieved. Luffy then comes in with a giant pack on his back, wondering why everyone is still looking serious and wanting food for his journey to rescue Sanji. However, Nekomamushi states his desire to find out how Jack managed to get to Zou twice, as it means the island is likely not safe from the Beasts Pirates. Luffy wishes Nekomamushi good luck and hopes that Zunesha will become their ally, which amuses him. Meanwhile, on a snowy island, Kaidou receives a call from Scratchmen Apoo, who reveals that they have lost all communication with Jack and his fleet.

A flying squirrel mink named Musatobi glides down to Zunesha's front left leg and examines it. When he sees the extent of the leg's damage, he becomes shocked and quickly flies back up to warn the others. On Zou, Nekomamushi agrees to give Luffy food for his journey, and Musatobi races to the crowd to warn them about Zunesha's injuries. Zunesha's injured leg then gives out slightly, causing Zou to shake again. The minks prepare to take imminent action, and Luffy offers his crew's help in treating Zunesha. Inuarashi states that the crew is not obligated to help them, but Luffy insists, saying that they are in an alliance. Chopper prepares to get medicinal herbs, and Usopp asks if the minks have bandages for the elephant, which they deny, so he and Robin decide to work on that. Franky then asks about the ships the minks had mentioned during Jack's attack, wondering how they can embark from the island.
He, Usopp, and Shishilian go to the building that houses the ships, only to find that all of them were destroyed during Jack's attack. However, the pulley systems that are used to bring the ships down to the ocean are still intact, and Franky decides to rebuild the ships. Shishilian then tells all the minks outside to assist the Straw Hats in this endeavor and Franky calls on Zoro, Brook, and Kin'emon to help them cut down trees for wood. Meanwhile, Wanda thanks the Straw Hats for helping the minks, and Nami asks if she could get a map in order to chart a route to Big Mom's territory. Wanda does not have one, but Pedro does, and he prepares to take Nami to it. In another area, Chopper and several minks pick medicinal herbs, and Chopper explains to Miyagi and Tristan that this is a rare herb which can heal Zunesha's injuries. As Luffy and Carrot ride a crocodile-boar steed across the island, they come across several female minks holding large white sheets, which Robin sews together with her Devil Fruit powers in order to create a giant bandage. Back in the forest, Brook uses his swordsmanship to cut down several trees, and so does Kin'emon, although his Foxfire Style causes the trees to catch on fire, and Raizo puts out the fire quickly with a watering can. Zoro then cuts up several trees into fine lumber, but ends up separating himself from everyone else, which Law berates him for. And then, Luffy and Carrot come by and make fun of Zoro, causing him to be embarrassed even further and declare that he will carry all the lumber himself, but Law uses Shambles to transport Zoro (against his will) directly to the construction site on the edge of Zou, which Carrot reacts in shock.
Meanwhile, Nami receives a map inside a room, and plots out the direction to go in to get to Whole Cake Island, which will take more than a week. Wanda and Pedro then decide individually and silently to accompany the Straw Hats in the quest to Whole Cake Island in order to provide assistance, and Luffy and Carrot drop in as Nami notices a small island on their route near the edge of their map. She then looks outside, and sees to her shock that there is a giant cloud formation in the sea nearby. At the edge of Zou, Franky receives the freshly cut lumber, and quickly builds pristine boats which the minks gawk at. Chopper and his helpers then arrive with the medicine, and other minks come with bandages, saying that Robin stayed behind to make more so they could change them later. Usopp and Kanjuro then come up on a poorly drawn parrot, having laid the tracks to bring down the ships on. Back in the map room, Nami states that the cloud formation she sees is a Silent Supercell, a powerful stormcloud which is likely to wreak havoc on the treatment effort. She tells a shocked Luffy to warn the others to stop the treatment and evacuate.
Meanwhile, the boats are lowered with the pulley systems, allowing the Straw Hats and minks to get close to Zunesha's wounds. Chopper spreads the medicinal herb onto the wound, stating that it must be painful, but Zunesha is quietly taking it. Tristan assists Chopper, and silently wishes that she could learn medical practice from him. After Chopper finishes applying the medicine, he orders the bandage to be applied. However, Zunesha enters the Silent Supercell, and as Luffy and Carrot race to the edge of Zou, the Straw Hats and minks begin feeling strong winds. The wind strength increases as a downpour begins, and Carrot and Luffy are blown toward their destination. The wind causes the hanging ships to swing toward Zunesha's leg, but Usopp cushions the impact with a Pop Green. A rope holding one of the boats snaps, causing the people on it to fall, but Luffy stretches out his arm, allowing them to grab onto it and slide onto another boat. The brace holding all the boats then snaps, but Luffy manages to grab it, allowing him to hold the boats in place until the storm passes. Robin then uses her Devil Fruit powers to securely hold the pulley system in place, and the cheerful minks return to work.
Later, Carrot takes Luffy to a pantry, where he places a lot of food into a big backpack. Carrot gushes over the talents of Luffy's crew, and tries to ask if she can go on the mission to Whole Cake Island, but Luffy does not hear her as he suddenly realizes that he forgot about Pekoms, who he needs on his journey. Luffy then asks Carrot to take the backpack to the Thousand Sunny before running out, and Carrot eyes some bananas on the floor. At the edge of Zou, the Straw Hats and minks begin finishing up Zunesha's treatment, and the minks thank the Straw Hats for all their help, with Shishilian giving an especially over the top presentment of gratitude. Meanwhile, Carrot goes to the top of the Mokomo Dukedom gates, and gazes out at the ocean in awe before giving some bananas to Bariete. Elsewhere, Luffy runs through the forest to look for Pekoms.

The citizens of Arabasta wave goodbye to Princess Vivi as she sails away from Arabasta with Cobra, Karoo, and their attendants. They are escorted by a Marine ship captained by Rear Admiral Hina, and she orders Jango, Fullbody, and the rest of her men to stay vigilant in their escort. Vivi climbs up to the Crow's Nest and waves goodbye to her subjects as she looks out at the open sea in front of her. Toto remarks that Vivi looks extremely comfortable out in the sea, and Koza replies that she is getting in touch with her pirating past again. As she stands in the Crow's Nest, Vivi remembers her experiences with the Straw Hat Pirates. Two years ago on Arabasta, she and Luffy had argued on whether it was better to save the country by beating up Crocodile or stopping the oncoming civil war, causing them to fight. However, Luffy's remark that he and his crew would help Vivi save her country deeply affected her. Later, Vivi was captured and held over the edge of a tall building by Crocodile, and as he dropped her, Luffy flew in on Pell and caught her before battling Crocodile. Eventually, Luffy managed to defeat Crocodile, and as she saw the defeated Crocodile fly up into the air, Vivi gained enough willpower to shout for an end to the fighting going on in front of her, and the fighters began hearing her call for peace as rain fell in Alubarna for the first time in a long time. Days later, the Straw Hats began sailing away from Arabasta, and Vivi went to say goodbye to them, revealing that she intended to stay in order to fulfill her responsibility towards her people. The Straw Hats tried saying goodbye, but Nami pointed out that the Marines chasing them would likely see the exchange and label Vivi as a criminal for being affiliated with them. The Straw Hats then raised up their left arms, which bore X marks that they and Vivi made earlier as marks of their friendship, silently saying their farewells as they swore their continued bond with the princess of Arabasta.
Back in the present, Igaram tells Vivi to come down to the deck, worrying about the various ways she could be harmed up there. However, Vivi only scares him more by somersaulting off the Crow's Nest, landing gently on her feet. She then talks to Cobra, who is coughing, and she expresses concern about his ability to make the voyage to Levely. Cobra states his intention to go, as he wanted to ask the World Government about the Poneglyph on Arabasta, and why their ancestors' actions were inscribed on it. However, he does state that he could die soon, and wonders if Vivi will choose a husband soon to help her rule the kingdom. However, Vivi politely declines her father's statement with a wink.
Sterry, now king of the Goa Kingdom, stays in a fancy hotel room with his wife, Sarie Nantokanette, on their way to Levely. Nantokanette admires their room, but Sterry finds little to compliment on, only noting that he could see Gol D. Roger's execution scaffold from the window and that he had seen worse places. His attendants ask if he needs anything, and Sterry rudely drives them away, causing them to run out of the room. It is then revealed that the time has now come for the Levely, and rulers of countries all over the world are making the voyage to Mary Geoise in order to meet with each other. In Kano Country, its ruler laments the absence of the Chinjao Family, but prepares to make the journey anyways. He states that the war ended after the other side lost access to the weapons supplied by Doflamingo, and he has lots to talk about at Levely. Meanwhile, on Fish-Man Island, Shirahoshi curls up into a ball in apprehension at going up to Mary Geoise, saying that Luffy promised he would be the one to take her farther into the outside world. Her brothers and attendants try convincing her otherwise, saying that their journey is simple and straight up and that Luffy will take her farther than that; also, they now have enough signatures on Otohime's petition for human and fish-man coexistence to present at Levely. However, Shirahoshi still resists, and her brothers wonder if they should leave her behind, but Neptune states that it would not make them look trusting should they withhold her. Shirahoshi then remembers her time with Luffy, and how she had resolved to stop crying as much the next time she saw him.
On the Thousand Sunny, Luffy wonders why everyone else on the ship is not doing their jobs promptly as the other members of the Sanji retrieval team are still recovering from their jump off of Zou. Nami is sick to her stomach and can barely keep them on their intended path, and Carrot suddenly jumps in, offering to help. Luffy initially admires her for her energy, not realizing who she is at first. He and the rest of the crew then gasp in shock to see her, and Carrot excitedly looks out at the vast expanses of the ocean as everyone else wonders why she is here.

After Luffy wasted all their food supplies, the Sanji Retrieval Team is quickly left starving, with Luffy famished to the point of even trying to eat Chopper. Pedro then sees an island from afar, and Nami realizes that it must be the island she spotted on the map in Zou. The team prepares to look for food there, but Pekoms reveals that the island, Fron Island, is home to a Marine base that keeps an eye on Big Mom and is full of hotshots. The team heads for the island's shore in the Shark Submerge III, with Pedro and Pekoms staying behind to guard the Thousand Sunny. On Fron Island, Vice Admiral Prodi and his men watch as a Marine ship carrying reserve forces draws closer to the island. However, an explosion suddenly hits the ship as the soldiers on it target one of their own. The target, Grount, has started attacking everyone, overpowering them with his speed and strength. To finish the rest of his comrades off, Grount activates the metallic attachment on his arm, which causes steam to exude from it and allows him to knock everyone out with extreme speed and power. Grount then jumps close to Prodi and tells him to send back the defeated forces due to them being too weak, which angers Prodi.
Meanwhile, Brook frightens a group of Marines into unconsciousness with his detached soul, and Luffy, Nami, Chopper, and Carrot put on the Marines' uniforms, though Luffy is hesitant. Brook then heads back to the Submerge, and Nami and Chopper look around the island, seeing the Marine ship that just arrived and also finding the building where the Marines store their food. In the Marine base, Prodi angrily contacts Garp, blaming him for sending Grount to the base, but Garp revealed that Grount requested it himself. After the call ends, Koby wonders to Garp why Grount requested to be stationed in such a remote area. Prodi then berates Grount for his reckless actions, asking the 17-year-old Captain why he asked to be transferred, and Grount stated his intention to take down Big Mom. Prodi is dismissive of Grount's high goals, calling him naive and noting that he served under Aokiji, belittling the former Admiral for deserting the Marines. Grount gets angry at Prodi for mocking Aokiji, having to be held back by Prodi's attendants. Prodi then tells his attendants to let Grount rest a while before he puts him on duty.
Outside, the Sanji Retrieval Team prepares to sneak into the Marines' food storage, but Luffy and Carrot end up going on ahead to the main base, where they come to the cafeteria. Grount then comes to the cafeteria as well, with his actions on the ship causing him to be ostracized by his comrades. Grount's attitude gets both sides riled up for a fight, but Bonham then steps in. Initially seeming like he would attack Grount, Bonam instead hugged his comrade, having previously served under Aokiji with him. He then pointed Grount to their other old comrade Zappa, who is hunched back and crying into his food due to having been rejected by every girl on the island. As this happens, Luffy and Carrot get excited when they see the food being served to them. Meanwhile, some other Marines find the Marines that the Sanji Retrieval Team knocked out and stripped, and report the scene immediately. Prodi receives the report and immediately tells his men to find the attackers' invasion route, activating every Video Den Den Mushi on the island before racing to the monitor room.
In the cafeteria, Grount eats his spicy curry. Nami and Chopper then enter, and are appalled to see Luffy and Carrot out in the open. The kitchen lady then notices the two of them and states they do not look familiar, which scares Nami and Chopper, but she mistakes them for new Marines and happily gives them food. Carrot then sees the two of them and calls out their names loudly, shocking Nami. Zappa hears Nami's name and quickly recognizes her in bewilderment. He then approaches her lovestruck, saying he knows who she is and holding up her bounty poster. Zappa proposes to Nami and tries to kiss her, but ends up kissing the kitchen lady's spoon as Nami runs away into the hall. Chopper goes with Nami as she recovers from the shock of Zappa's advances, and as Zappa starts crying again, Luffy grabs an entire bowl of curry, causing the Marines to shout in bewilderment. In the monitor room, Prodi notices the altercation and quickly recognizes Luffy. He then activates an alarm across the island, telling his forces that Luffy and his crew are here and ordering them to be captured. Meanwhile, Nami and Chopper run out of the Marine base, intent on getting supplies from the food storage room before they leave. Brook hears the alarm and is himself confronted by several Marines. Inside the cafeteria, the Marines confront Luffy and Carrot as Grount excitedly prepares to take Luffy down himself.

As Luffy and Carrot are surrounded by Marines inside the cafeteria, Carrot wonders what they should do. However, Luffy decides to keep eating rather than pay any mind to the Marines, grabbing an entire bowl of curry and planning to leave. Grount mocks Luffy, calling him a nothing before confronting him. He pulls out two daggers and attacks Luffy, but Luffy counters him with the curry ladle. The two duel, and Luffy eventually manages to slam the bottom of the ladle into Grount's face, covering it in curry. Meanwhile, Nami and Chopper make it outside, and though they see the Marines mobilizing to confront Luffy, Nami is confident that Luffy can take care of them. She and Chopper then prepare to raid the food storage facility to get food for their journey. Back in the cafeteria, Bonham pushes the embarrassed Grount aside and attacks Luffy himself, using Qigong and Rokushiki to rapidly attack the pirate with powerful blows. Luffy grows tired of fighting and tries to run out of the room with Carrot, but Bonham blocks the exit and activates Tekkai. However, Luffy blows him away with Gear 2, and he and Carrot run off into the hall to look for more food.
In the hallway, Carrot is suddenly stopped by Zappa, who offers her carrots in order to woo her. Carrot is attracted to the carrots and nibbles on Zappa in gratitude, causing him to become lovestruck and fall over. However, Carrot immediately returns to Luffy, causing Zappa to confront Luffy in a fit of jealousy. Zappa swings his swords at Luffy, but the pirate manages to easily block them with Busoshoku Haki-imbued arms before Carrot brings Zappa down with an Electro jab. Brook's detached soul then appears, and upon Luffy asking he reveals that Nami and Chopper are headed for the food storage facility. Luffy and Carrot then run with Brook's soul down the hall, and Grount and Bonham follow them along with Zappa, who has only been made more amorous by Carrot's blow. Several Marines rush in to stop the intruders, but Carrot knocks them all out with her agility. However, Luffy and Carrot run into a dead end, with Brook not realizing they could not pass through the wall like he could. Grount and Bonham then corner the three of them, but they argue on who gets to take them down, giving Luffy enough time to punch a hole in the wall and escape outside with Carrot and Brook.
Luffy follows the scent of food to the storage facility, and Nami and Chopper find him and Carrot inside and gorging on food. They try to get them to hurry up and leave, but Luffy has not had his fill yet. Grount, Bonham, and Zappa then reach the facility, and confront the Sanji retrieval team. Bonham and Zappa attack Luffy, but he dodges them and they fall to the ground from their momentum. Chopper then jumps in to fight Bonham, but is unable to penetrate the Marine's Tekkai. Bonham uses Qigong to make himself slimmer, and he overwhelms Chopper by using Soru. However, Chopper manages to guard against attacks with Guard Point, and Bonham tries to break through it by becoming bulky again and using Jusshigan. Chopper blocks it by transforming into Heavy Point, and sends Bonham flying into the food storage and defeating him despite the Marine using Tekkai. Meanwhile, Zappa confronts Luffy, Nami, and Carrot as they try to escape, intending to bring Luffy down so Nami and Carrot could be his. Carrot quickly dispatches him with an Electro shock, but Zappa once again fails to stay down, proposing marriage to both Nami and Carrot. However, Nami smugly says that he does not know what women want as she releases a weather egg, out of which a storm cloud hatches. Nami then strikes Zappa down with a giant thunderbolt, invigorating his amorousness to a great degree before finally knocking him out. However, Zappa recovers from even this, and lights his swords on fire as he unleashes a giant attack at Luffy. Luffy hits the flames back with Busoshoku Haki, and they hit a giant pot of water, causing it to fall right on Zappa and flood the facility.
The Sanji retrieval team is washed out of the facility, holding on to giant bags of food. As they try to begin their escape, however, they are confronted by Grount. Grount and Luffy then start to brawl, and Luffy manages to overpower Grount physically despite Grount activating the steam-powered appendage on his arm. After a massive clash, Luffy finally blows Grount back to where the recently emerged Bonham and Zappa are. As Bonham and Zappa check on Grount, the Sanji retrieval team finally makes their escape. However, they are stopped at the coast by Vice Admiral Prodi and his men. Prodi gives a long spiel about how the Straw Hats are ruining innocent people's lives with their adventure, but then reveals that he is only confronting them in order to avoid being demoted, shocking his men. The Sanji retrieval team then prepares to fight Prodi.

Prodi confronts the Sanji retrieval team at the coast of Fron Island, intent on defeating them in order to maintain his base's reputation of strength that they need to operate against Big Mom. Should he fail, he will likely be demoted and transferred to a new island, where he will be forced to retire without the pension amount he desires. The Sanji retrieval team is surprised at his intentions, but press on, knowing they can escape once they get to the Shark Submerge III. Brook waves to his crewmates from the nearby submarine, but Prodi points his bazooka at the Submerge and shoots at it, engulfing it and Brook in a large explosion. The Sanji retrieval team is shocked at this move, and Prodi confronts them, telling Luffy that he used to fight Garp evenly with his bazooka. Prodi then shoots his bazooka at the team, but they dodge the blast as they jump down to the beach where Prodi and his troops are. As the Marines try to attack them, Nami tries hitting them with Thunderbolt Tempo, but they emerge from the attack unscathed with the help of their shields. Carrot's Electro attacks are also ineffective, and the Marines reveal that their shields are covered in rubber. However, Nami simply uses Gust Sword to blow them away and overwhelms them with Mirage Tempo, Chopper easily overpowers them with Kung Fu Point, and Carrot kicks a Marine soldier without Electro. Meanwhile, Prodi shoots his bazooka at Luffy, and Luffy dodges the blasts.
Back by the food warehouse, Bonham, Zappa, and Grount see and hear the effects of the massive clash on the coast. Bonham and Zappa prepare to go to the coast and confront the pirates again, but Grount possesses no motivation to move, saying sullenly that he is too weak. Bonham and Zappa angrily berate him for his cowardice, reminding him what they had trained to do under Aokiji. Back on the coast, Luffy defeats Prodi with a Gear 2 attack, and Bonham and Zappa look on in shock as they arrive. The two Marines confront Luffy and the pirates once again, with Bonham using Qigong to increase his bulk and Zappa drawing out his swords. Meanwhile, Grount continues to sit by the food warehouse, and he whispers Aokiji's name as he recalls meeting the admiral. Several years ago, an island erupted with a shockwave as a young Grount screamed, holding a giant furry red left arm. Meanwhile, Aokiji rode toward the island on his bicycle, and as he saw the chaos on it, he decided to go there and investigate it. There, he saw Grount in the midst of the rubble of a large city, and he asked him if he caused all this damage. Grount then revealed his giant left arm and attacked Aokiji with it, being unable to control it and crying for it to be cut off. Aokiji managed to dodge his strikes and eventually incapacitated Grount by freezing his left arm. Years later, Grount trained under Aokiji with Bonham and Zappa, with his left arm now contained in a metal attachment. He asked Aokiji why he could not go out and fight yet, and the Admiral replied that he was not yet ready and he still did not have full control over his power. Aokiji then told him to keep training it in preparation for when he would face strong opponents, and in the present, Grount realizes that now might be the time Aokiji was talking about.
Back on the coast, Bonham and Zappa are defeated with Luffy's Jet Gatling, and Brook reveals that he and the Submerge are perfectly fine after Prodi's attack. Before the Sanji retrieval team can escape, however, Grount leaps out and attacks Luffy. Grount tells Bonham and Zappa to leave the fight to him as steam begins blowing out of his left arm attachment. Eventually the attachment crumbles, revealing Grount's monstrous left arm, which he now has full control over. Bonham and Zappa are ecstatic that Grount has achieved this, and Grount attacks Luffy, managing to overpower him with his left arm's sheer power. Luffy activates Gear 3, allowing him to fight on par with Grount. Grount eventually manages to send Luffy flying upward, but Luffy maintains his Haki-clad Gear 3 as he unleashes Thor Elephant Gun, and he and Grount clash with their large fists. The monstrous clash rocks the coast, and the two fighters are at a stalemate for a little while, until Luffy finally manages to gain ground. Finally, Luffy manages to overpower Grount and hit him in the face, sending him crashing down onto the beach.
Grount wakes up a little while later, with Bonham and Zappa by his side. Grount asks them where Luffy is, but they reveal that he and his crew left immediately afterwards. However, Grount just laughs, reflecting that Luffy is indeed deserving of a 500,000,000 bounty and promising with his comrades to win the next time they met the pirates. Meanwhile, the Sanji retrieval team sails away on the Thousand Sunny, but to the appall of Nami, they have already eaten all of the food they stole. Most of it was consumed by Pedro and Pekoms, who were left starving on the ship for hours, but even the crewmates who went on the island and ate there also feasted on the rations.

The famished Straw Hats sail through a storm. They struggle to maintain course. Luffy states he'll save Sanji no matter what.
On the Queen Mama Chanter, Sanji notices that Tamago's transponder snail is ringing constantly. Tamago explains that the snail is receiving 'Warning Signals'. At that point, the ship passes by Tarte 28 (an outpost where a platoon of Big Mom Pirates awaits to attack any intruders). Tamago then tells Sanji not to be stubborn, and just ally with Big Mom along with Germa 66; stating it's what Sanji's father wants. Sanji angrily yells at Tamago not to speak of his father (as their relationship was cut off already), and says he only came along to bring it to an end. Tamago sips from the teacup on his head, explaining how Big Mom thinks highly of Sanji for being a chef (regardless of him being a Straw Hat). Sanji remarks how Tamago's 'people' don't care if their friends die, and says that he'll only cook for his own nakama. Tamago states that Bege was right to incapacitate Pekoms. Vito then brings over a photo he recently received from Whole Cake Island. Sanji tells them he's not getting married. Despite Sanji's threats, Vito shows him the photo of Pudding, Sanji's soon-to-be fiancee. Sanji reacts to the beautiful photo as he would upon seeing any other pretty female.
Later, Sanji walks around the ship as people stack up piles of large presents. Vito follows him, questioning Sanji on his reaction to the photo of Pudding. He then asks Sanji if he's ever read the WEJ (World Economic Journal). The WEJ features a comic called, "Sora, Warrior of the Sea". Vito supposes it was made to indoctrinate children on how the "Navy is always right and strong", and states his liking for the comic's antagonists, Germa 66. 
Sanji tells Vito not to refer to him as one of the Germa 66 members. Regardless, Vito was still happy to see Germa 66 in person. Sanji wakes up a sleeping door, demanding it open. He then walks to the room he was provided, and tells Vito to stop following him. Caesar, in a nearby cage, demands to be let out. Vito explains how they were only ordered to capture Caesar, while Sanji on the other hand was to be treated kindly (as he's the 'precious groom' who's purpose would be to unite the Charlotte Family with Germa 66). Sanji restates his unwillingness to get married, and tells Vito to get out. 'Hitman' Gotti of the Fire Tank Pirates appears. Gotti points a large machine gun at Sanji; telling him to apologize to Vito for being rude. Vito tries to persuade him it's A-OK. Sanji tells them both to get out as Vito struggles to hold back Gotti, and then goes on to say it's okay to not tolerate him as they're not friends. An angered Chiffon stomps into the room, demanding Gotti not to mistreat Sanji, lest Big Mom removes their heads. She apologizes to Sanji, then pulls Gotti out of the room by his ear. Vito leaves next, the animate door closing behind him. Sanji thinks out loud how much Chiffon resembles "her". Caesar, whilst crying, complains about the unfair advantage Sanji has, and the likelihood of Caesar being killed by Big Mom. 
A few days later, the hot sun beats down on the starving Straw Hats. Luffy, Brook, Pedro, and Chopper sit fishing on the edge of the Sunny; each in turn exclaiming how hot the weather is. In what little shade is on deck, Nami along with Carrot and Pekoms, beg the others to catch fish before the weather turns again. Chopper explains the slim chances of doing so, as the sea water appears to be boiling. Luffy gets a bite on  his fishing rod, and struggles to bring the very large fish out of water. He finally manages to pull up the fish, and yells, "Let's eat!"
Somewhere else, a large vessel shrouded in mist floats in the sea. The silhouettes of two people converse on their desire to meet with "him".

After days without food, a famished Luffy finally manages to catch something while fishing, and he excitedly brings it up. Though he initially succeeds, the giant fish falls back into the water, where it resists Luffy's attempts to pull it onto the Thousand Sunny. The Sanji Retrieval Team, in a massive effort, manages to pull the fish onto the Sunny, where they prepare to cook and eat it. Chopper notes that its color seems strange, and decides to look for information on it in Sanji's locker. Chopper manages to find a book about fish buried by several magazines with women on them, and discovers that the fish they caught has extremely poisonous skin that will cause instant death. He goes outside to tell the team about this, only to find that Luffy has already started eating the skin. Luffy feels fine, and Nami panics at the news, but Chopper tells her that they can still eat the fish if they skin it and prepare it according to Sanji's instructions.
Nami and Carrot cook the fish according to Sanji's instructions, making hearty servings for everyone on the team. They then bring it outside to serve it, and the team finds it to be delicious. However, Chopper is in a panic, as Luffy has collapsed and lost most of his functions from the skin poisoning. Nami insists that Chopper eat so he can keep taking care of Luffy, and Chopper reluctantly does so, but continues panicking and crying as he does not have the supplies necessary to treat the poisoning. They note that Luffy is still alive despite the fish's skin normally causing instant death, but they still need to get to an island and find herbs immediately. However, Pekoms warns them that they could not do this right away, as they are currently entering Big Mom's territory. Planning to stop for help at any island they come across, the Sanji Retrieval Team is delighted by the cotton candy snow falling on them. Their Den Den Mushi suddenly starts ringing, and Pekoms states that it is a signal from the Territorial Sea Slugs warning them that they are definitely in Big Mom's territory.
Suddenly, the Sanji Retrieval Team is approached by a mysterious ship, and Pekoms states that it is probably a Tarte, one of their scout ships. He has the team hide while he settles matters with the Tarte, but discovers instead that the ship belongs to Germa 66. The team barely manages to avoid crashing into the much larger ship, and a hooded man with a face resembling Sanji's approaches them, asking what they are doing here. The team mistakes him for Sanji and are overjoyed, asking him for an antidote to give to Luffy. However, the man reveals that he is not Sanji, but is actually Yonji. Yonji refuses to share the relationship between him and Sanji, but the team knows that he is obviously Sanji's younger brother. Yonji then sees Nami and becomes lovestruck, and the team is surprised at the similarities within Sanji's family. Yonji prepares to leave, and the team asks him for an antidote to save Luffy, but he coldly refuses. The team tries to get confrontational, when suddenly Yonji is kicked off his ship by his sister, who tells him to stop being so stingy. The woman then jumps onto the Sunny as the Sanji Retrieval Team gathers around the incapacitated Luffy. When she lands on deck, the team confronts her, but she simply apologizes for her brother's behavior.

The Sanji Retrieval Team reacts in shock to the mysterious woman being on their ship, realizing from her comment about Yonji being her little brother that she must be Sanji's older sister as well. Yonji then jumps out of the water and expresses his annoyance at his sister, Reiju, as he hovers in midair. The team is bewildered by Yonji's ability to float, and wonder if it is a Devil Fruit, but Nami says he would have been incapacitated by the water if that were the case. Pekoms then reveals that Yonji gained his abilities from science, being a member of the Vinsmoke Family, the leaders of Germa 66 who possess advanced scientific technology. Chopper is awestruck by the  Big Mom has been looking to get her hands on the technology for a long time. Brook recognizes the Vinsmoke name, recalling that the family used to rule over the entire North Blue. Reiju affirms this, revealing that even though they no longer have any physical territory, they still hold royal status and can attend Levely. Brook becomes infatuated with Reiju and asks to see her panties, but Nami hits him for his improper conducts.
Reiju turns her attention to the incapacitated Luffy, and notes that he must have eaten the Armored Stonefish from the Hot-Hot Sea, which would normally kill even a giant instantly. However, she calls it her favorite delicacy, and presses her lips against Luffy's. She then sucks all of the poison out of his body, transferring it to herself without suffering any negative effects. The team, except for Brook who desires to be in Luffy's current state, is shocked to see this, but Reiju assures them that everything is fine since she is the Poison Pink. Luffy then regains consciousness, and Chopper and Carrot tearfully embrace him. He does not remember what happened, and asks for more of the Armored Stonefish's skin, and Nami angrily tells him what happened.
Luffy sees Reiju's curly eyebrow and thinks that she is Sanji, only to be scolded by Chopper to the fact that she is a woman. After a while, Luffy realizes she is Sanji's sister, and Reiju thanks him for taking care of Sanji during his absence from their family. She reveals that their father had been looking for him since he left, and when Sanji first got a bounty two years ago, Judge sent bounty hunters after him. However, due to the crude drawing on Sanji's wanted poster, the hunters went after Duval instead, and the Straw Hats remember Duval telling them about how he had been targeted based on his resemblance to the drawing of Sanji. When Sanji's bounty was finally updated with a photograph of him, Judge pressed on with the search and had his bounty condition changed to "Only Alive". Luffy asks where Sanji is, and Reiju states that he is either with Big Mom or their father; they had sailed out to meet him but seemed to have missed him. Reiju looks forward to meeting him later, but Luffy angrily states his intention of rescuing Sanji. As tension builds up, Yonji notices Pekoms, and asks him what he is doing with the Straw Hats. An annoyed Pekoms states he will keep that to himself, and Reiju jumps from the Sunny and lands next to Yonji on their ship. Reiju and Yonji bid farewell, agreeing to not tell anyone about their meeting in order to ensure that Sanji's wedding happens. The two ships then sail away. Reiju catches Yonji looking amorously at Nami's wanted poster. Brook was still infatuated with Reiju's beauty and says that he still wishes to see her panties. Nami comments saying that she doesn't even have the energy to smack him. Meanwhile, Aladine watches the scene from underwater, and reports it to Jinbe, asking what he wants to do.
On the Sunny, the Sanji Retrieval Team admires Reiju's work on Luffy, and Luffy offers to go fishing again, but they quickly decline. Nami recognizes they are still in a food shortage, but Pekoms states that they should reach an island soon. He reveals that there are 34 islands surrounding Whole Cake Island, which are all ruled by a minister. These islands compose Big Mom's territory, which is called Totto Land. Carrot then leaps up to the Crow's Nest, and she and Pedro see a Tarte approaching them. Pekoms has everyone else hide, assuring them he can smooth it out with security. The Sunny and the Tarte later dock on the shore of an island, and Pekoms speaks with several Chess Soldiers, claiming to have hijacked the Sunny from a pirate group and is currently sailing it to give to Big Mom, complete with a sweet treat. The Sanji Retrieval Team watches from behind the Sunny's masthead, and Carrot tries to go onto the island, but they hold her back until Pekoms finishes arrangements. However, they then realize that Luffy and Chopper are missing, having likely headed onto the island already. Indeed, Luffy and Chopper run across the island until they approach a town made entirely out of chocolate, much to their delight.

Luffy and Chopper gaze in awe at the town before them, which not only has a large variety of people walking around, but is also composed almost entirely of chocolate. On the Sunny, Nami and Carrot excitedly wear their new dresses, and Nami beats up Brook for peeking under her skirt. Pekoms tells them that it takes a day to get to Whole Cake Island from their current location, so he tells them to get groceries before they depart. Carrot notes that a large variety of races are gathered on the island, including minks. Pekoms then explains Big Mom's dream: a utopia where every race can coexist peacefully. He reveals that there are 34 islands surrounding Whole Cake Island ruled by ministers, which are all collectively known as Totto Land. The town they are in is Chocolat Town on Cacao Island, which is ruled by Minister Chocolate and is made entirely out of chocolate. Carrot asks if the chocolate can be eaten, and Pekoms affirms this, but reveals that it is illegal to consume the roofs because they protect residents against the precipitation the island gets. Pekoms tells them to come back quickly and that he will stay on the ship, but asks them to bring him back some chocolate. He then looks for Luffy so he can get into his disguise, but Carrot and Nami reveal he has already gone to explore the town, outraging Pekoms. Nami says to not worry, as they should find him easily, and her assertion is affirmed as a person cries out that someone has eaten a cafe.
In town, an angry policeman confronts the very rotund Luffy and Chopper for eating an entire cafe, but they reply that they had a good reason, which was that it was too good not to eat. The police officer angrily tells them that they are coming to the station with him, and Pedro prepares to free Luffy and Chopper by force despite Brook's pleas. Suddenly, someone comes flying down on a carpet telling the policeman to wait, and he recognizes the person as the proprietor of the cafe. A woman comes down and the policeman shows her what happened to her cafe, but she unexpectedly yells at Luffy and Chopper for not eating the entire building. She puts jam, biscuit, and chocolate in their mouths as she confirms the policeman's realization that they are actually dismantlers that she hired. The policeman warns Luffy and Chopper to put up a notice before they dismantle anything else, and apologizes for the chaos he caused. He then congratulates the owner, Charlotte Pudding, on her upcoming marriage, which makes her very happy. The Sanji Retrieval Team is bewildered by their unexpected savior, when suddenly a wolf mink approaches Pedro, asking what he was doing there. Pedro shuts his mouth, whispering that he was on vacation and telling him not to alert others of his arrival. Nami is surprised that Pedro knows people in this town, and Pedro says he will tell her later.
Later, the Sanji Retrieval Team eats at another cafe, and Luffy thanks Pudding for bailing them out. Pudding, however, is thankful to him for declaring her cafe to be delicious, revealing that it was made from a recipe she created from scratch. Brook cries at Pudding's generous nature as Luffy shares his love of chocolate with her, but Nami says that they cannot stay long. Pudding understands, but asks if they want tea first to wash down the chocolate. As she makes the tea, Pudding asks the Sanji Retrieval Team what their names are, and Luffy tells her who he is despite Nami futilely attempting to cover his mouth, which makes her aghast.
On Whole Cake Island, Big Mom asks how long they have before the Tea Party, and two singers respond that they have three days. The two singers also confirm that Sanji has arrived, and people continue singing as Big Mom asks about the wedding cake and its ingredients. Her subordinates call in from different islands, having acquired ingredients for the cake by murdering the people guarding them. Big Mom and her entourage sing as they celebrate the upcoming ceremony, and Big Mom remarks that she has heard of Luffy's presence in her territory.

Pudding asks the Straw Hats to introduce themselves in which Luffy shouts his name and proclaims to be the future pirate king. Nami gets mad and covers Luffy's mouth. Pudding later blushes and realizes that Luffy looks familiar. A while later, Pudding realizes that the Straw Hats are Sanji's comrades. The Straw Hats say Pudding's name to recall the memories as the name sounded familiar. Brook later ask Pudding if she is a member of the Charlotte family to which she says yes. Luffy asks Pudding if she is Big Mom's daughter, pressed into marrying Sanji to which she agrees. Brook later screams in jealousy of Sanji due to him having such a sweet wife. Pudding later freaks out about how the Straw Hats bypassed the security into Big Mom's territory and points a knife at them, only for Pedro to hold a sword on her. Pedro asks the Straw Hats on what they should do in which Luffy replies for the release of Pudding. Pudding reveals information that her family is big. This surprises the Straw Hats. Pudding tells the Straw Hats about how she is forced to marry Sanji. She later tells that while Sanji loves her, he doesn't want to marry her and wants to return to the crew. The crew is shocked upon hearing that Sanji refused to marry such a pretty girl. Pudding later draws a map for the Straw Hats to go to Whole Cake Island, the place where Big Mom resides. The Straw Hats thank Pudding and leaves. Before leaving, Brook asks to see Pudding's panties again, only to be hit by Nami. After returning to the Sunny, the Straw Hats are shocked to see that Pekoms was missing.

On Broc Coli Island, soldiers of Germa 66 enter a battle, where they easily overpower the weaker and less well equipped soldiers on the other side. As the massacre continues, one survivor attempts to avenge his wife and children by shooting one of the Germa commanders. However, the commander has one of his soldiers take the bullet from him, and confronts the man as he forces his gun against his head. The commander angrily states that the man is making him late for his brother's wedding, and shoots the man before walking away, the battle having easily been won. He then contacts his brother, who is collecting payment from the winning side for Germa's services, and the winning side celebrates Germa and their victory. However, once the two brothers reunite, they mock the two factions for taking two years to fight this war. As they overlook the destruction on the island, they contact someone to inform him that they are making the two-day voyage to Whole Cake Island. The elder brother expresses his excitement to see Sanji again, but the younger one calls him a liar.
Meanwhile, the Sanji Retrieval Team approaches Jam Island on their way to Whole Cake Island, and despite Chopper and Carrot's wishes to eat more sweets, Nami has them steer clear of the coast in order to avoid being detected, continuing on their secret route. They then come to a purple-colored part of the ocean, and Pedro reveals that juice from a nearby island flows into it. The team wonders how he knows so much about the area, recalling how someone on Cacao Island knew him and getting suspicious. Pedro then states that he has been here before. Suddenly, the ship is rocked several times by a Giant Sea Centipede, which Pedro states will eat anything indiscriminately. The centipede surfaces and confronts the team, towering over them and the Thousand Sunny. Nami and Chopper become extremely frightened, but Luffy, Brook, Pedro, and Carrot excitedly prepare to fight it. However, Luffy manages to bring it down by himself with Gomu Gomu no Gatling, shattering its shell and sending it crashing back into the ocean. Before the team can recover, they are soon confronted by another centipede, which is bigger and stronger than the previous one, withstanding Luffy's Gatling attack. Brook, Pedro, and Carrot try to step in and slice at its chest, but Luffy ends up taking it down alone again as he kicks it in the face with Gear 2. The team sails on peacefully, although Brook, Pedro, and Carrot are not very happy with not having the chance to attack either of the centipedes. Luffy wonders if they can eat them, but Nami and Chopper quickly dissuades him.
Meanwhile on Whole Cake Island, Big Mom rampages through the woods after she develops a craving for croquembouche. Her eyes turn red, and she fixates entirely on getting croquembouche, attacking everything that gets in her way. She approaches Sweet City with a path of destruction in her wake, and in Sweet City, her ministers panic as they desperately try to satiate her eating disorder by getting her croquembouche before she can enter the city. However, the kitchens are all very busy, and the ministers are forced to evacuate everyone from Sweet City as Big Mom enters it, destroying and eating buildings as she tries to fill her craving. A talking cloud and talking sun try to talk her out of it, but she throws them aside as her destruction continues. While the citizens evacuate, one person keeps them moving, desperately wondering where the croquembouche is. However, the ministers can only wait in fear for it to come as Big Mom climbs up a large building, destroying it and sending the citizens fleeing in terror.

Big Mom continues her mindless rampage through Sweet City as she searches for croquembouche. She eats several buildings and even some living food, but there is no croquembouche in sight. The ministers desperately try to get some croquembouche made as quickly as possible, but the chefs tell them it will take at least another half hour to get them done right. In Sweet City, a little girl finds herself caught in front of the rampaging Big Mom with nowhere to run, but she is suddenly rescued by Charlotte Moscato, Big Mom's 16th son and Totto Land's Minister of Gelato. Moscato confronts his mother, trying to stop her and assure her that the croquembouche is coming. However, she only responds by attacking him with explosive punches. Three of his siblings attempt to get him away from Big Mom's wrath, but are unsuccessful as Big Mom angrily asks Moscato for either a treat, or his life. Moscato's fear of his mother begins to grow, causing a spectral substance to emerge from his body. His siblings warn him to not show fear in front of Big Mom, but Moscato ends up running from her. Big Mom then grabs onto the spectral substance and pulls it out of Moscato, removing 40 years of his lifespan.
With Moscato dead, Sweet City returns to a state of panic, with the ministers panicking as well as Big Mom draws closer to the castle. However, Jinbe is seen approaching Sweet City on the back of a whale shark, and he has a pile of living croquembouche tourists by his side. Jinbe confronts Big Mom, and as she tries to attack him, he races toward her head on her outstretched arm and throws the living croquembouche into her mouth. Big Mom eats the croquembouche, and begins to return to normal, delightfully complimenting the croquembouche's delicious taste, which makes them fine with being eaten. Big Mom regains her mind, but does not remember her actions during the rampage at all; she makes polite conversation with Jinbe and thanks him for giving her a Poneglyph he had found earlier. However, Jinbe then expresses a desire to make a request to Big Mom, and her face darkens as she asks if he is going to leave her crew.
Meanwhile, as the Sanji Retrieval Team sail past Biscuits Island, they go into pink-colored ocean. Pedro reveals to his excited teammates that they are in the Mixed Juice Current, a place where several juices flow in and mix together. He warns that this place contains several dangers, and the team notices several giant pieces of fruit floating in the water. Luffy gets hungry and pulls a giant watermelon to the Thousand Sunny, but Pedro reveals that that is a fruit footballfish. The watermelon then opens its eyes and mouth as it devours Luffy, much to the team's shock. However, Luffy fights his way out of it, killing it and cutting its watermelon body up into giant slices. The team does the same to a peach and an orange footballfish, and they feast on the massive amounts of fruit except for Nami, who is sickened at the sight.
Back on Whole Cake Island, Big Mom takes Jinbe to her castle in order to discuss his request. As he walks with her, Jinbe knows that he has been destined to take this course of action ever since he met Luffy. He recalls first meeting Luffy in Impel Down, begging the Straw Hat to bring him out so he could help save Ace. When Ace was killed in Marineford, Jinbe was forced to help Luffy escape from the island, and when Luffy fell into despair over his inability to save his brother, Jinbe reminded him of what he still had to fight for. Two years later on Fish-Man Island, Jinbe saved Luffy's life by giving him a blood transfusion, and though he was receptive to Luffy's offer for him to join the Straw Hat Pirates, he declined due to having business he still needed to take care of. However, he promised to see Luffy again.

Several children gather around Moscato's body and cry out in grief, but they are chased off as two black nebulous beings approach. As some soldiers put Moscato's body on a stretcher, Mont-d'Or tells the beings to collect every last second from him. A child asks Mont-d'Or if Big Mom will kill Jinbe like Moscato, but Mont-d'Or cannot give an answer, knowing that no one is safe should they anger her.
Meanwhile, Jinbe and Big Mom are about to enter her castle, and Jinbe recalls what happened a few hours ago, when he called all of the Sun Pirates together. Jinbe told his crew that he wished to join the Straw Hat Pirates, as he believed that Luffy out of everyone had the chance to become Pirate King. The Sun Pirates gave their support to his wish, as they had heard Jinbe talk about Luffy repeatedly for the past two years. They thanked Jinbe for his years of service to them and their kingdom, and said that he should have the chance to do something for himself for once. Jinbe was shocked at their words and bowed in gratitude, but one crew member pointed out that Big Mom might not take Jinbe's departure so well. The Sun Pirates were prepared to flee from her if things turned out for the worse, but wondered about Aladine due to his marriage to Big Mom's daughter Charlotte Praline. Praline overheard their conversation and angrily confronted her husband, believing that he was planning to leave her. However, Aladine denied this, and Praline lovingly embraced him as she declared that she would abandon her mother and go with him anywhere. Jinbe apologized to Wadatsumi for leaving him so soon, but Wadatsumi was fine since he liked the Sun Pirates. Jinbe then asked Praline if anyone had previously left Big Mom's crew, and Praline replied that people had tried it before, but no one had managed to successfully leave alive. Back in the present, Jinbe talks to Big Mom in her throne room about leaving her crew. Big Mom seems to be receptive to his request, but then states that in return for her having to lose a good subordinate like him, he will have to lose something important in return. She then pulls out a roulette wheel to determine what Jinbe will lose, to his shock.
That night, the Sanji Retrieval Team are stranded in a sea of mizuame, which has solidified around their ship and prevented it from moving. The team is forced to melt it extremely slowly with torches, not willing to wait for daybreak due to the possibility of a horde of giant ants that they had beaten earlier returning and eating their ship. Pedro reveals that he once had a ship eaten by these ants, and the Straw Hats are curious about what he did here in the past. Carrot then reveals that Pedro used to be a pirate with Pekoms, and Pedro elaborates, explaining that the two of them sailed as explorers in search of Poneglyphs for the rulers of Zou. However, they still received bounties on their heads, and Pedro only accompanied Pekoms halfway, as he met his defeat here five years ago. The Straw Hats are surprised that he would come back here, but Pedro reveals that he is determined to help them since Inuarashi and Nekomamushi had shown them the Road Poneglyph on Zou. The only other foreigner they had shown it to was Gol D. Roger 26 years ago. The Straw Hats got to see the Road Poneglyph because they reminded the rulers of Roger, and so the minks believed they were on track to be Pirate King. Pedro points out that acquiring Big Mom's Road Poneglyph is a necessity in order to reach Laugh Tale, and offers to go in and get it while the others rescue Sanji. Luffy offers their help, but Pedro encourages them to focus on their goal, and his determination delights the team. However, the ants regain consciousness and attack the team, and they struggle to overpower the giant insects and protect the Sunny.
The next day, the Sunny is sailing once again, and the team wakes up nursing their injuries from their battle with the ants. However, they get excited when they see Whole Cake Island directly in front of them, and they sail toward the coast in front of them, which Pudding told them is the only unguarded landing point. As they approach the island, they suddenly see Sanji standing on the coast, much to their surprise.

The Sanji Retrieval Team watches in excitement as the Shark Submerge III comes out of the Thousand Sunny's third dock. Inside it are Pedro and Brook, ready to sneak in and retrieve Big Mom's Road Poneglyph. Pedro apologizes for having to take Brook on the mission as well, but the Straw Hats do not mind and Brook says that he is good at sneaking. The duo then go underwater and sail through a river leading into Whole Cake Island.
Meanwhile, the rest of the Sanji Retrieval Team is skeptical of Luffy's claim that he saw Sanji and Pudding on the beach due to not seeing the two of them, but disembark and explore the beach. They fail to see Sanji or Pudding anywhere, to their confusion, as Pudding had agreed to bring Sanji to this beach. Chopper discovers that the beach is made of hardened whipped cream, to his teammates' delight, and they then suddenly see Sanji standing by some woods in the back. They call out to him, but he does not respond as he instead runs into the woods. Confused, the team races after him into the woods. Nami is particularly confused, as she remembers Sanji promising to return during his capture on Zou. However, Luffy, Chopper, and Carrot quickly become mesmerized by the forest, which is composed mostly of candy. They decide to split up and look for Sanji, but Nami points out that they would get lost that way and they seem to be more interested in the candy lying in the paths they want to search. The team tries to deny it, but quickly get distracted by the edible nature in their path, including a melon juice river and a doughnut bridge.
Nami tries to snap them out of their distraction, but as they walk down the bridge, a giant crocodile leaps at them from underneath and takes a large bite out of the bridge they were standing on. They just barely manage to escape its jaws and prevent themselves from being eaten, and as they recover, Carrot asks Luffy if they should fight the crocodile. Luffy decides not to, and the crocodile looks at them as it decides not to eat them since they are humans before walking away on its hind legs. Nami is shocked to have seen a talking crocodile and bewildered that Luffy thought nothing of it, but Luffy points out that they already have two talking animal-like creatures with them in the form of Chopper and Carrot. Suddenly, Luffy finds himself face-to-face with a duplicate of himself, and quickly gets confrontational with it. His duplicate appears to be a mirror image of himself, perfectly reflecting all of the actions he makes and the things he says, and things like Luffy's scar and accessories have their positions reversed on the duplicate. Luffy gets angrier at his mirror duplicate and attacks it, but the duplicate perfectly matches his attacks with the same ones. Suddenly, the team sees Sanji lying on a nearby tree branch with a lollipop in his hand, but once again Sanji does not appear to hear their calls and runs away again. Luffy tries to go after Sanji, but runs into his duplicate, and they engage in a brawl as they tell the others to go after him. As Nami, Chopper, and Carrot race after Sanji, struggling to keep up with him in a forest of lollipops, Luffy continues battling his mirror duplicate to a draw, angrily asking what he is, which the duplicate simultaneously asks as well.

As Nami, Chopper, and Carrot keep running through the Seducing Woods on Whole Cake Island, they suddenly run into an extremely large man who is buried up to neck. Shocked at the sight of him, they ask who was the one to bury him, but the man reveals that he buried himself. Chopper gets angry at his irrational behaviors, and Nami and Carrot try to run away to prevent Chopper from getting worked up over him. The man reveals that he saw a man run past him earlier, and will tell the trio about him if they get him apple juice from a nearby waterfall. Thinking it might have been Sanji, Nami agrees, but the trio are suddenly ambushed by an anthropomorphic rabbit named Randolph. Randolph rides in on a crane and swings his spear at the trio extremely quickly, but Carrot manages to hear him coming and helps her teammates dodge his attack. 
The trio manages to leave Randolph behind, and they regroup as Nami states that they should return to Luffy. The matter of Sanji was still unresolved, but his unusual behavior when the team encountered him made it questionable whether he was actually real. The trio prepares to go back, but notices in shock that all Log Poses and clocks are going haywire in these woods. As they try running back the path they came from, the objects in the Seducing Woods all come to life and sing as they block off the path to the shore, excitedly planning to trap and kill the Sanji Retrieval Team. While the trio runs, Randolph charges at them again, and Carrot flips back and the two clash. Carrot states that the rabbit is not a mink, as evidenced by his inability to use Electro. Nami tells Carrot to stop fighting so they could get back to Luffy, and Carrot knocks out Randolph's crane with Electro to keep him from pursuing them. However, Randolph leaps into the air and spins his spear at the trio, hurling it with great velocity.
Meanwhile, Sanji walks down the halls of his family's castle and passes a spot in the wall with a dent in it. He recalls a time when he suffered severe bullying from his three brothers and was kicked into the wall, causing the dent, as he becomes angered at the thought of it. Yonji appears, asking Sanji if he's being nostalgic before expressing surprise at the fact the "weak" Sanji is still alive and now a pirate. Yonji tells Sanji to say something as the latter tells his younger brother to go away. Sanji retorts he has cut ties with his family and has nothing to say to them, as the angered Yonji tells Sanji he heard about Sanji's refusal to marry Pudding, and he demands for Sanji to abide their family's orders. In response, Sanji repeats his demand for Yonji to go away as the latter angrily dares him to make him before attacking, but Sanji evades the attack. Yonji uses his technology to attack as Sanji activates his Diable Jambe to clash with his brother, surprising the latter.
Back in the Seducing Woods, Nami, Chopper, and Carrot run from Randolph's spear and successfully dodges it as it strikes the buried man in the back of the head. The buried man cries out in shock, but the trio pay no mind to him as they use him as a landmark. They then reunited with Luffy after running through a field of lollipops, and Luffy is still fighting his mirrored clone. When they tell the two Luffys about their situation, one of them goes along with them while the other heads in the exact opposite direction. They come back to the destroyed donut bridge, and Nami gets excited at their progress as they leap over the part the Noble Croc ate. However, as they jump, Luffy suddenly blurts out that the person with the team is not him. However, the Luffy with the team covers his mouth before the team hears more, and they continue running. However, they somehow find themselves back in front of the buried man, much to their shock, and the buried man is confused at their shock as he states that he did not move. 
The team tries to go back down the path they were on before, only to find themselves in front of the buried man once again. While trying to piece this together, Nami and the team suddenly notice some trees and flowers walking towards them. Having been spotted, the talking objects turn bashful and start singing, adding to the Sanji Retrieval Team's appallment as they see cakes, lollipops, and even parts of the ground start talking and moving. Nami realizes that there was no longer a path back to the ship, and Luffy's eyes glow as he states that Nami has become aware of what is going on around her, before putting his arm around her neck. The team is bewildered by Luffy's actions, and realize that this is not Luffy as he transforms back into her true form: the eighth daughter of the Charlotte Family, Charlotte Brulee. Now holding Nami high above the ground, the very tall Brulee is mistaken for a tree by Carrot, which angers her. Brulee points to the large scar across her face, saying that it makes her jealous of Nami's and Carrot's pretty faces. In retribution, she plans to slice their faces up with her extremely sharp fingernails, and Nami screams.

Behind the Whole Cake Chateau on Whole Cake Island is Lake Aprico, an inlet from the sea which Big Mom's allies can dock in. There, several Germa 66 ships come in and connect with each other, forming the Germa Kingdom, the world's only seafaring kingdom whose territory is solely comprised of these ships. The kingdom is mostly populated by men and soldiers, who constantly train every chance they get, and Sanji sees many of the soldiers training as he looks on sullenly from the balcony of the main castle. Sanji looks behind him, only to sigh in exasperation as his sister Reiju still remains in the room. Reiju remarks that they are family, so he should be nicer to his sister, whom he hasn't seen in a while, but Sanji states that he cut all ties with his birth family long ago. 
He points in disgust to a portrait on the wall that shows a man standing over the heads of four kings. However, Reiju is not bothered by it, saying it was the Conquest of Four Nations, where the Germa Kingdom vanquished four kings in the North Blue. The triumphant man, who was their father, seeks to assert control over the North Blue, which the Germa Kingdom ruled over in the distant past, and once slayed these kings in his quest. Reiju says there is nothing wrong with men battling for power, and it is what the Vinsmoke Family prides themselves on, telling her brother to enjoy the royal luxuries that their power grants them. Sanji only gets angrier, and right as this happens, his and Reiju's father, Vinsmoke Judge, comes in to see him. Judge greets his son for the first time in a long time, but Sanji refuses to consider him as his father. Judge inquires as to what Sanji did to Yonji, surprised at the act as he considered Yonji to be strong. Sanji only replied that he must have been stronger, and continued to blow Judge off, causing him to tell Sanji to meet him outside, where they would settle matters physically like men.
Meanwhile, Luffy runs through the Seducing Woods confused as he looks for his crewmates and wonders what the fake version of him really was. As he runs, the flora of the forest comes to life, and they wonder if they should take Luffy out themselves. They decide to do so, and sneak up behind Luffy as he keeps running through the woods.
Back in the Germa Kingdom, the residents race to the scene of Sanji's and Judge's upcoming battle as the two prepare to fight. Meanwhile, in Yonji's castle, Yonji's face is struck by a hammer as he recalls his encounter with Sanji. Their scuffle left a massive dent in his face, and Yonji's scientist says that a hammer will not work and that he will have to use a press machine. Yonji's face is then smashed from the left and right by giant beams, returning his face to normal. Yonji wonders how he lost to a failure like Sanji. Outside, Judge begins the battle by rushing at Sanji and jabbing at him with his spear, but Sanji dodges all of the attacks. Reiju and the citizens are impressed with his skills. 
As he and Judge battle, Sanji continues to disown his family and tries to figure out ways to get out of their life even if he marries Pudding, but Judge says those will not work as he continues to claim Sanji as his son. Sanji angrily denies this as he remembers making a cake as a young child. When it was done, however, it was stolen by his brothers, and Sanji tried to chase them to get it back, but he was kicked into a wall by Yonji. He tried punching his oldest brother, but the punch had no effect, and his brother viciously beat him in response. The other brothers laughed, and as Judge and Reiju walked by, Sanji begged his father to stop the bullying. However, Judge was content to let it happen, viewing Sanji as weak and worthless, and Reiju only laughed. Thus, Sanji was left at his brothers' mercy, and was thrown into the wall again as Yonji charged him. 
Back in the present, Sanji blocks a strike from Judge's spear with a Busoshoku Haki-imbued leg, shocking Judge and the spectators, and Judge is surprised that former his weak son knows Haki. He then acquires a sword and throws it to Sanji, expecting him to take it since he was trained in swordsmanship. However, Sanji coldly refuses, saying his hands were only for cooking as tension between him and Judge continues to boil.

Sanji reaffirms his intention of using his hands only to cook and not to fight. Reiju compliments her brother's strength, while Judge mocks this and says that Sanji providing cooking services is an embarrassment. Judge then activates rocket boosters on his shoes and flies upward, flipping over to look down at his son. The Germa 66 soldiers gaze in awe at their commander's demonstration of power, but Sanji says that aerial attacks are his specialty as he activates Diable Jambe. Judge readies his spear to strike as he flies down, but Sanji counters it with a Diable Jambe kick. However, Judge grabs Sanji's flaming leg and hurls him to the ground. He flies over his downed son, saying that war advances science as he kicks Sanji in the chin with an electricity-imbued foot, which he strengthens with his rocket boosters. The force of the kick blasts Sanji into a wall, and Judge says that this Germa is not the same as the one Sanji once knew. As he lies on the ground, Sanji recalls his childhood in the Germa Kingdom, remembering how Judge locked him in a dark cell with an iron mask on. Not willing to forgive his family just for being related to him by blood, Sanji gets back up and prepares to fight with nothing but animosity towards his father. Activating Diable Jambe, he charges at Judge, but Judge has a few soldiers form a barrier between him and Sanji. Sanji is caught off-guard by the soldiers suddenly blocking him, and slows his attack as he tells the soldiers to move. Judge, however, rams his spear through one of his soldiers and brings it close to Sanji. Sanji clashes with the spear tip, but Judge builds up electricity in the tip, causing a powerful blast that knocks Sanji far away. The soldiers cheer and Reiju walks back inside as the battle ends, with Judge victorious.
Meanwhile, Luffy continues running and calling out for his teammates in the Seducing Woods. The anthropomorphic flora of the forest then comes to life and confronts Luffy out in the open. Luffy is surprised by their sudden presence, and the flora sings about his impending doom as they converge on him. A tree attacks Luffy with its root, but Luffy immediately responds by knocking it to the ground. He tells the other flora to be quiet and leave him alone, but they attack him all at once, causing him to get angry.
Elsewhere, Brook and Pedro sail through a river to Sweet City. Once they reach the capital, they dock in a hidden spot and head for the Whole Cake Chateau on foot. As they walk, they remark on the liveliness and diversity of the city, and a courier suddenly shouts that there is breaking news. He holds a newspaper up to get people to read the new story, and Pedro goes ahead to see what it is. He is surprised as he looks at the front page of the paper to see a picture of Jinbe front and center on it.
Back in the Seducing Woods, Luffy continues running after beating up all the flora that attacked him. He then runs into the large buried man again, and the man begs him to remove the spear that Randolph threw into his head. Luffy obliges, and then asks the man if he has seen his teammates. The man tells Luffy about his craving for apple juice and offers to tell Luffy if he gets him some, much to Luffy's exasperation. However, Luffy suddenly sees Chopper standing behind him, but Chopper fails to speak or acknowledge Luffy as he runs away on all fours.
In the Germa Kingdom, Reiju tells Sanji about how impressed she is with his strength as she tends to his injuries, and a downtrodden Sanji hopes to just get through the tea party quickly and get out of this. Judge then comes into the room, and Sanji is repulsed by him, saying he is even worse than he was in the past and viewing him as a stranger. Judge reasserts that the two of them are father and son, and explains that the Germa soldiers are trained to sacrifice themselves for their commanders at a moment's notice. Sanji asks why Judge does not use them to achieve his dream of conquering the North Blue, and Judge replies that this arrangement with Big Mom will guarantee that the dream becomes a reality, and a marriage is necessary in order to seal the alliance. Judge reveals that he chose Sanji because he did not want to give one of his beloved sons to a madwoman like Big Mom, so he chased after the son he had gotten rid of. Judge states that he still does not truly view Sanji as a son, just a failure who will be of use to him as a sacrifice for this arrangement. Reiju then places golden cuffs on Sanji, and Judge reveals that these are programmed like the World Nobles' slave collars to go off should Sanji attempt to escape. These cuffs will blow off Sanji's hands if they explode, preventing him from using the parts he treasures so much. Judge reveals that Big Mom gave the cuffs to him and so has the keys, shocking Sanji, and Judge proclaims that Sanji will marry no matter what.
Back in the Seducing Woods, Luffy continues chasing Chopper, who wears a blank expression and continues to neither recognize nor speak to him. He then sees another Chopper standing behind him, and has no time to react before Nami, Carrot, Sanji, and Pudding peek at him from behind trees, leaving him extremely confused. The anthropomorphic flora around him laughs to themselves, saying that Brulee is playing with him and that Luffy would wander lost in these woods until he died and even after that.
Back in the Germa Kingdom, Sanji stands on a balcony as he examines the explosive cuffs on his wrists. He remembers Zeff examining his hands when he was a child, after he had gotten into a fistfight. Zeff berated Sanji for this, punching him as he taught him that the hands are meant to be used for cooking, not to be put at risk in fights. In the present, Sanji wails in anger as his precious cooking tools are now under a threat that he cannot overcome.

In Sweet City, the citizens read in shock at the news of Jinbe withdrawing his request to leave the Big Mom Pirates, and they mock him for his cowardice. Pedro is surprised that a former Shichibukai is one of Big Mom's subordinates, and Brook notes that Jinbe's allegiance to Big Mom is why she protects Fish-Man Island. He tells Pedro that Jinbe is important to their crew, recalling their time in Fish-Man Island and how Jinbe agreed to join them after he took care of some business. Brook is surprised that Jinbe would do something like what was mentioned in the newspaper article. Pedro calls Brook to join him around the corner of the building, and they look in the window to see Pudding trying on wedding dresses. She tries to leave because she has other arrangements, but her attendants and Tamago keep her in as they show her possible dresses. Brook and Pedro are shocked to see her there, knowing she should be at the coast and wondering what the Pudding that Luffy saw really was. Brook then recognizes Tamago, and Pedro states that he knew the Baron. A Chess soldier then asks to speak to Tamago, and they go outside. They then go over the locations of the Sanji Retrieval Team, and Brook and Pedro quietly panic as they realize that the Big Mom Pirates have known their every move. The only team members whose locations they do not know are Brook and Pedro themselves, and Tamago states that he knows Pedro and knows what he will try to do. He tells the Chess Soldier to continue searching for Pekoms, as he wanted to bring his teammate back to Big Mom to plead for his forgiveness.
Meanwhile, on the northwestern coast of Whole Cake Island, Capone Bege calms down his infant son Capone Pez by making a silly face before turning to the captive Pekoms, who is standing close to the edge of a cliff wrapped up in chains. As he stands along with his wife Charlotte Chiffon and the members of his crew, Bege remarks on how Pekoms' life is ending right as Pez's is beginning. He tells Pekoms that he gave him his chance, but Pekoms steadfastly brushes off Bege's words. Recalling Pekoms' display of weakness on Zou, Bege says that the lion mink is not cut out for this business as he points his gun at him. He remarks that this is a good place to get rid of someone, as below the cliff is an ocean full of hungry sharks. As Pez starts to cry again, Bege asks Pekoms if he has any last words, and Pekoms shouts at him to not underestimate Big Mom. Bege then shoots Pekoms as Pez bawls, sending the lion mink falling into the ocean, where the sharks quickly converge on him.
In the Seducing Woods, Luffy chases after Sanji, who fails to recognize his captain and is acting much like a monkey. After a while, Luffy catches the Sanji figure with a Gomu Gomu no Ami and ties him up, and it heavily resists captivity. Luffy prepares to bring the creature, whom he thinks is the real Sanji, back to the crew, only to suddenly see another duplicate of Sanji that is also acting like an animal standing in front of him.
In the Whole Cake Chateau, Caesar Clown stands in the throne room before Big Mom herself, and she inquires about the state of the experiments she commissioned him to do. A terrified Caesar claims that he vigilantly worked on his research, and Big Mom reveals that she has had him look for a method to achieve Gigantification so that all races of the world can be the same size as her and they can sit at a table together like family. Previously, Caesar had told her that he was almost done with the experiment but needed some more funds, and Big Mom inquires about any results he may have found. Caesar reflects internally that those were all lies, as the gigantification experiments he had performed on the children in Punk Hazard had resulted in the subjects' poisoning and impending death. With no way to succeed, Caesar had blown Big Mom's money on a life of hedonism, purchasing Girls' Ships to come to the island every night. He was confident that he could escape Big Mom's wrath as long as Doflamingo protected him, only to be shattered once he read the news of Doflamingo's defeat. In the present, he lies to Big Mom that his research was disrupted after Luffy and Law destroyed his laboratory, saying he could only achieve the results he needed there. However, Big Mom reveals that she had the Minister of Candy construct an exact replica of his lab on Whole Cake Island, and asks Caesar how long before he can achieve results. Caesar is then brought outside to his new lab, and he is met by the Minister of Candy and Big Mom's first son, Charlotte Perospero. Caesar is given two weeks to finish the gigantification serum, and if he fails, Perospero will turn him into candy and lick him. Perospero also has possession of Caesar's heart, which he uses to torture the scientist, and Caesar remembers how Sanji gave Vito his heart on the Big Mom Pirates' ship; he then starts despairing over his impending doom.
Back in the Seducing Woods, an exhausted Luffy carries duplicates of Sanji and Pudding to the clearing where the buried man is. He throws the duplicates onto the pile of his allies, which all act like animals. There are multiple duplicates of some of his allies, and an extremely confused Luffy wonders in desperation what is going on.

The citizens of Totto Land come to a cathedral, and inside they meet a dark blob-like being. The creature asks them "Leave or Life?", and all the citizens choose life, causing the creature to reach into their body and pull out a small glowing spectral ball, which it places into a basket.
In the Seducing Woods, a confused Luffy ponders over the pile of creatures that look like duplicates of his allies, who are all making animal sounds. He sees one of the Nami duplicates talking, only to find out that it is the real Nami as she berates and hits him. Nami examines the duplicates of their allies before turning to the buried man next to them, angrily stating that he had seen the entirety of their conflict with Brulee without doing anything. She then reveals to Luffy what had happened while they were separated, as his mirror duplicate had turned out to be the eighth daughter of the Charlotte Family, Charlotte Brulee. Brulee held Nami in her grasp, but Nami managed to free herself by extending her Clima-Tact into Brulee's stomach. Brulee recoiled, and Carrot attacked her, but she blocked the mink's attack with a rippling corporeal mirror. This mirror reflected Carrot's attack back at herself, sending her flying back. Brulee revealed that she could create mirrors with the power of the Mira Mira no Mi, and Carrot attacked again, only for Brulee to make a larger mirror that sucked her inside. This left Carrot trapped on the other side of the mirror, and Brulee closed it, cutting Carrot off from Nami and Chopper.
The flora of the forest came to life again, and Brulee revealed that they, including Randolph, were stationed by Big Mom to play with and take down the Straw Hats in the Seducing Woods. Nami and Chopper found themselves surrounded and overwhelmed by dozens of enemy flora, and Chopper told Nami to run so not all three of them might be captured. He then activated Monster Point and fought the flora as Nami ran away, and Brulee gazed in admiration at Chopper's unusual appearance, saying Big Mom would be happy to have him due to her love of strange creatures. Nami struggled to keep her footing as she ran away, and Chopper continued struggling against the flora and Randolph. Back in the present, Luffy wonders what happened to Carrot and Chopper, and Nami says she does not know as it all happened right on this spot, which is why she is asking the buried man. Luffy joins in the interrogation, and the man struggles to answer. Meanwhile, at the Whole Cake Chateau, Big Mom's anthropomorphic food affirms to her that Brulee and the homies are taking care of the Straw Hats in the Seducing Woods, and she is approached by Charlotte Cracker, a hulking man who is her tenth son and one of her crew's Three Sweet Commanders. He strikes fear into the food, and Big Mom orders him to head to the Seducing Woods and bring pain on the Straw Hats that would make them wish for death, to which he happily complies.
Back in the Seducing Woods, the buried man only agrees to answer Luffy and Nami's questions if they bring him apple juice, and an annoyed Luffy agrees to do so after he answers them. He first asks Nami if she is strong, noting that unlike Luffy she does not look like it. He says that Chopper was strong, but was ultimately subdued by the anthropomorphic flora and fauna who would not be stopped. Nami states that she got them to stop attacking her, as did Luffy after he beat up enough of them. Luffy then asks how everything is alive in the first place, and the man reveals that the citizens of Totto Land give up their lifespans in exchange for living safely in Big Mom's territory. They give away a month of their lifespans every six months as a result of Big Mom's Soru Soru no Mi, which enables her to manipulate souls. She sends her Incarnations, which are the black blob creatures, to collect the soul fragments, and these are released into the wild. When they enter an inanimate object or even an animal like Randolph, the object gains sentience and becomes a homie. Only humans and corpses cannot become homies. Luffy asks if the animal duplicates of his allies are also homies, and the man states that it is actually Brulee's power turning animals into reflections of people. Luffy gets mad at the man for not telling him after watching the whole time, and the man replies he did not want to get involved in anything. He eventually relents as Luffy pulls on his eyelids, revealing after a long hesitation that he was once one of Big Mom's husbands. Luffy and Nami stare at him in shock, and as this happens, Cracker marches through the Seducing Woods, causing the homies around him to cower in fear as he heads toward Luffy, Nami, and the buried man to attack them.

Charlotte Cracker walks through the Seducing Woods, and the homies around him wonder what he is doing here. Cracker confronts them, asking if he was not welcome, and the homies quickly shrink back in terror as they affirm their welcome. Cracker emits an aura of immense power, causing a small burst that takes out all the homies around him. In a nearby clearing, the buried man continues talking to Luffy and Nami about his past with Big Mom revealing that she cast him away after he sired two daughters with her. Now, the homies in the woods do not avoid him, but simply do not care about him. Right then, Cracker emerges behind him, to Luffy and Nami's shock, and he grabs the man by the ponytail as he pulls him out of the ground. The man eventually fully surfaces, shocking Luffy and Nami as it is revealed that his body is the same size as his head; the two Straw Hats had pictured him as a fully fledged giant. Cracker confronts the man about him spilling information, and the man begs him to at least let him see his daughter Chiffon one last time, as he heard she had gotten married. He pleads for Cracker to let him see Linlin, and notes that although his other daughter Lola ran away, he treasures both of his daughters dearly.
Nami is shocked to hear Lola's name, and recalls Pudding telling them in her cafe about one of her sisters running away. She then remembers meeting Lola on Thriller Bark while the latter was a zombie, having protected herself from Lola's attack by claiming to be a man. She offered to help Lola woo Absalom; later, after Lola had crashed her arranged marriage to Absalom and gotten injured, Nami revealed that she was not a man, but Lola had already known and the two made peace as friends. Nami then met the real Lola on the Thousand Sunny, and hugged her; after successfully retrieving all the stolen shadows including Lola's, Lola gave Nami a Vivre Card leading to her mother, as she had come from the New World and her mother was a very powerful pirate there. Drawing a conclusion from her memories and the buried man's statement, Nami realizes that Lola's mother must be Big Mom.
Suddenly, Randolph comes swooping in from the sky on his crane, attempting to ambush Luffy and Nami. However, Cracker shouts at him to stop, knocking him and his crane away. Cracker's shout causes him to emit an aura of power once again, which causes all the homies around him to wither away in fright. Cracker expresses anger with Randolph for the rabbit homie acting important and trying to interfere in his job, and Randolph claims that his crane wanted to do it, which the crane vehemently denies. Luffy and Nami gaze at Cracker as they try to gauge his strength, and Cracker reveals that Big Mom sent him to ensure the Straw Hats would be taken care of, as Luffy had beaten Doflamingo and she feared that Brulee might have trouble. However, Brulee comes in on a giant tree homie named Kingbaum to protest Cracker's statement, as the two state that no one has ever left the Seducing Woods alive on their watch. Cracker replies that Big Mom needed the Straw Hats to be dealt with quickly and decisively, as tomorrow at noon the Vinsmoke Family will be fully gathered on Whole Cake Island. Brulee reveals that she knows and has already made progress in this goal as she creates a mirror. Luffy initially mistakes her for a tree branch, and in response, she turns the duplicates of his crewmates back into animals before showing Chopper and Carrot trapped within a mirror. Luffy is shocked by this, and Brulee drops the mirror to the ground from atop Kingbaum's branch, shattering it. However, Chopper and Carrot are still fine, just trapped within the confines of the shattered mirror. Chopper then reveals a plan that he has devised to Luffy and Nami.
Cracker then gets cracking, and prepares to execute his stepfather first. The man begs him to let him see Linlin, but Cracker reveals that Big Mom approved of him executing her former husband. The man is shocked, saying he is Cracker's stepfather, but Cracker replies that Big Mom does not consider her 43 ex-husbands to be her real family, nor do any of her children. The man begs for the chance to give his two blood daughters his blessing, but Cracker ignores him as he swings his sword at him. However, Luffy blocks the sword strike with his foot, and immediately flips over and kicks Cracker's arm, forcing him to release the formerly buried man. Cracker is surprised by Luffy defending the man, and Luffy replies that he has taken to him after spending a lot of time around him. As Luffy stands unflinchingly before Cracker's tremendous power, the homies around them all run away in fear of their upcoming great clash. However, Brulee calls them back to chase after Nami and her stepfather, and Nami and the man are forced to run away. As they are pursued, the man reveals after being asked that his name is Pound, and wonders about Nami's earlier reaction to the mention of Lola. Nami then pulls out the Vivre Card that Lola gave her and reveals that she got this from her. However, the card emits an aura that stops the homies, including Kingbaum and Randolph, dead in their tracks. A shocked Brulee wonders why they have stopped the pursuit, and Kingbaum reveals that Big Mom's powerful soul is emanating from the card, shocking Nami as her suspicions about Lola being Big Mom's daughter are confirmed.

The homies run away from Cracker and Luffy in order to avoid getting in their crossfire, but they are hit by Cracker's powerful aura and wither away. Luffy makes the first move as he activates Gear 2 and rushes at Cracker, but Cracker easily blocks Luffy's attacks with his sword and shield. Cracker then attacks, and to Luffy's shock he finds that Cracker has suddenly gained extra limbs and swords. Cracker attacks Luffy with three of his swords, sending him flying into a tree homie close to Nami and Pound. Cracker approaches the trio now with four arms each holding a sword, shocking Nami. He reveals that he can add extra limbs and weapons to his body by tapping it, adding even more arms and creating more swords and shields, as well as creating more legs. Luffy attacks Cracker again, only to be blown back by Cracker's increased defenses, and Nami tells Luffy not to engage in combat, as their goal is to retrieve Sanji as quickly as possible. However, Luffy states that he can only ever go all out in combat, and Cracker laughs at Luffy. He then boasts in his one-of-a-kind sword Pretzel, and Nami points out that he is holding six swords, which angers Cracker as he charges at the two Straw Hats. Luffy activates Gear 3 and clashes with Cracker, but still has no luck breaking through his defenses. Cracker overwhelms Luffy as he rapidly jabs at him with his multiple swords, and eventually catches Luffy in the chest with a spinning thrust called Roll Pretzel, which breaks through Luffy's Busoshoku Haki defense and sends him flying a great distance through the Seducing Woods. Cracker pursues Luffy, causing massive amounts of destruction in his wake, and Nami chases after the two. However, she and Pound are confronted by Brulee and Kingbaum, who decide to take care of the two of them.
Nami steps back from the giant Kingbaum in fear, and Brulee mocks the Straw Hats and the other members of the Worst Generation, revealing that Eustass Kid, Scratchmen Apoo, Capone Bege, and Urouge had all previously invaded Totto Land. Except for Bege, who had allied himself to the Big Mom Pirates, all of the Supernovas had been chased away without seeing or even hearing Big Mom herself. The only one who made an impact in his invasion was Urouge, who managed to defeat one of the Sweet Commanders back when there were four of them. However, a massive storm hit as Big Mom sent a large fleet after Urouge, with Cracker in command. Urouge fought Cracker, and was unable to penetrate his defenses, even when he expanded his muscles with his Devil Fruit power. Cracker was underwhelmed by Urouge, and used Roll Pretzel to defeat him. Now, Brulee speculates that Urouge's body is lying around somewhere, and she creates a mirror before throwing it down by Nami's feet. She then disappears and reappears in the mirror, boasting in the power of the Four Emperors as she emerges and expands the mirror, grabbing Nami by the ankle. Brulee drags Nami into the Mirro-World, and Nami screams. Pound is initially overtaken with fear, but when Nami calls to him for help, he eventually builds up resolve and attacks Brulee. She dodges his punch, but releases Nami, and proclaims to her stepfather that he has made himself an enemy of Big Mom and her crew. However, Nami unleashes a weather egg to create a storm cloud and strike Brulee with lightning, stunning the woman as she falls into the Mirro-World and her mirror disappears. Pound states that Brulee will be back, and Nami apologizes for forcing his hand, but Pound sadly reflects that Big Mom already considers him an enemy due to authorizing Cracker to execute him. He then asks if Nami is friends with Lola, which she affirms, and Nami states that she now knows the Vivre Card Lola gave her points to Big Mom. As a result, it can also repel the homies, and Nami intends to use the card to its full extent.
Meanwhile, Cracker catches up to Luffy, who is back up and intent on continuing the fight. Cracker attacks with Roll Pretzel again, but Luffy dodges the strike and barrages Cracker with Gear 2 kicks. Cracker maintains his defense, but is pushed back a bit; however, he proclaims that Luffy's attacks have no effect on him as he charges at Luffy. The nearby homies run in fear as the two clash, and Cracker tells Luffy to give up, but Luffy refuses as he is intent on seeing Sanji.

As night falls, Sanji continues staring out of his balcony, and he is approached by Reiju. Reiju tries to get him to go to sleep, but Sanji continues to treat her coldly. She reveals that Ichiji and Niji are returning tomorrow, and Sanji solemnly remembers his two older brothers along with Yonji bullying him. Reiju reminds him that tomorrow will be a busy day before she leaves, but Sanji stays where he is. He takes notice of a butterfly flying around, but the butterfly draws his attention toward his exploding handcuffs, angering him. However, Sanji tries to calm back down as he lights a cigarette.
Meanwhile, Luffy barrages Cracker with several Gear 3 attacks, but even the might of those cannot penetrate Cracker's defenses; the Sweet Commander easily spawns more shields and blocks all of them. Cracker jabs his swords at Luffy repeatedly before imbuing two of them with Busoshoku Haki and spinning them, and Luffy blocks the drill-like jab with Haki-imbued legs. However, Cracker eventually manages to overpower Luffy, sending him flying in front of a house located in front of a giant mirror. As Cracker goes after Luffy, the homies around the house run away from the conflict; however, a flower homie reminds them of their duty to protect the Seducing Woods, causing the homies to go back and try to prevent Luffy from getting away from the house. Despite taking some injuries, Luffy charges back at Cracker and attacks him with multiple rapid punches; once again, this has no effect, and Luffy remarks that Cracker's Busoshoku Haki is extremely tough. After blocking many attacks, Cracker rams his shields into Luffy and holds him down on the ground. The Sweet Commander mocks Luffy's goal to rescue Sanji, saying that Sanji is all set for a luxurious royal lifestyle after his marriage, as befits someone of his blood. Cracker says that if Luffy managed to reach Sanji, Sanji would simply reject his former captain to live as a royal of high status. This angers Luffy immensely, and the Straw Hat captain blows air into his arm to activate Gear 4. He successfully manages to repel Cracker's hold on him, and flies toward Cracker in a rage, finally drawing blood from the Sweet Commander as he breaks through Cracker's shields and hits his body with a single Kong Gun. Cracker is sent flying back, and is left sprawled out on the ground.
Meanwhile, Brook and Pedro get the Whole Cake Chateau in their sights as they infiltrate Sweet City, but they suddenly see homies with bodies very similar to Cracker's patrolling down the city. They hide from the sentries, and are horrified when one of them looks into their alley, but it does not see them as it instead picks up a piece of candy left on the ground. Brook wonders how they are going to get past the sentries' security, and Pedro has an idea to use the sentries to their benefit. Meanwhile, Chopper and Carrot gaze at Brulee's Mirro-World, a colorful and abstract world with mirrors everywhere. They try looking around, but struggle to move with heavy ball chains wrapped around their ankles. Chopper encourages Carrot to keep pressing on, and the two approach one of the mirrors to look into it. Back in the Seducing Woods, Nami reveals to Pound that she intends to use the Vivre Card Lola gave her to its fullest by putting all the Seducing Woods homies under her command and using them to attack Cracker. The homies are appalled by this statement and try resisting or escaping, but Nami easily subdues them with the power of Big Mom's soul inside the Vivre Card.
Meanwhile, Luffy immediately moves to attack the downed Cracker, and Cracker gets up in time to unleash a counterattack with Pretzel. However, after a brief head-on clash, Luffy's fist shatters Pretzel and hits Cracker again, this time with such force that it apparently completely shatters Cracker's body. However, while Luffy's arm is still outstretched, a man peeks out of Cracker's remains and swings his sword at Luffy's arm, drawing blood. Luffy pulls his arm back quickly in pain, and he wonders who attacked him; he is given a shock as the man reveals himself to be the real Cracker. Cracker reveals that his previous appearance was actually a puppet he created out of biscuit with the power of the Bisu Bisu no Mi, which he usually operates inside due to not liking pain. He inhabits his Biscuit Soldier puppet so much that he even fooled the World Government, as his bounty poster showcases his Biscuit Soldier's face. Cracker then creates biscuits out of thin air and uses his craftsmanship skills to form several Biscuit Soldiers, and he taunts Luffy about the effort it took for him to take down just one Biscuit Soldier, as now he is faced with several and Cracker can create an infinite amount of them.

Cracker mocks Luffy as the two of them continue battling, stating that Luffy is no match for him or anything else in the New World. Still in Gear 4, Luffy continues destroying Cracker's Biscuit Soldiers with various attacks, and eventually manages to destroy all of them at one point. However, his efforts are to no avail as Cracker easily makes more soldiers, and Cracker himself sometimes leaps into the fray to attack Luffy with Pretzel. If Luffy's attacks get near Cracker, the Sweet Commander manages to dodge all of them with his reflexes. As he is faced with more Biscuit Soldiers than ever before, Luffy unleashes rapid-fire Gear 4 punches in an attack known as Gomu Gomu no Kong Organ, but Cracker only has his Biscuit Soldiers maintain their formation in front of him. He then leaps over his creations right at Luffy, and rapidly jabs Pretzel at Luffy's head, which the Straw Hat only barely manages to dodge.
Meanwhile, the homies in the Seducing Woods continue running away from Luffy and Cracker's battle, being too afraid of the powerful clash to get close to it. However, they suddenly discover with a shock that Nami is standing inside Kingbaum's mouth, keeping their master at bay with Big Mom's Vivre Card. Nami orders the homies to attack Cracker, and they are appalled at her outrageous command, but find themselves helpless to resist the power of the Vivre Card she carries. Pound calls Nami a horrible person, but she just asks the homies whether they are more afraid of Cracker or Big Mom; the homies reply that they fear her more than the other two. Meanwhile, in the Mirro-World, Chopper and Carrot look around at the mirrors scattered within it, and realize that all of the mirrors connect to a mirror on Whole Cake Island. Chopper then gets an idea, and tells Carrot that she will have to call him "big brother" if she wants in on the plan; she takes it farther by calling him "Choniki", which surprises the reindeer. Chopper then reveals his plan to use their access to every part of Whole Cake Island to their advantage, and Carrot praises this idea, which Chopper appreciates greatly. Meanwhile, as night falls over Sweet City, Brook cuts open the back of a Biscuit Soldier homie on patrol, allowing him and Pedro to get inside its body. Pedro reveals that the soldiers will return to the Whole Cake Chateau when they are done patrolling, and the two decide to sneak in this way and make their move afterwards.
The next morning, Big Mom expresses her impatience that she has to wait another day to eat wedding cake at the tea party, though everything still seems to be going as planned with their efforts to eliminate the Straw Hat Pirates. Big Mom plans to meet with the Vinsmoke Family for lunch later that day, and knows that the chances of Sanji being rescued will be close to none once he enters the Whole Cake Chateau. She receives a report that the two eldest Vinsmoke sons have arrived, and in the Germa Kingdom, Vinsmoke Ichiji and Niji arrive to a hero's welcome as the Germa 66 soldiers cheer them on. Niji is annoyed that Sanji has not come out to greet them, but Ichiji calms him as Sanji watches them from a balcony shaking at the sight of them. The two brothers go inside to the throne room, where Judge commends them on their actions as Niji asks about Sanji as the latter and Reiju then come to the throne room. Niji approaches Sanji, expressing surprise that he was alive before congratulating him on his marriage and asks to speak as he takes notice of the exploding handcuffs on his younger brother's wrists and making fun of him for them. Sanji pushes Niji's hand away, causing the latter to get angry and the two brother tensely stare each other down. However, Judge breaks the tension by telling Ichiji and Niji to eat something.
Soon afterwards, all five Vinsmoke children sit around a table eating while Judge still sits on his throne, and they talk about the battle on Broc Coli Island that Ichiji and Niji ended. Judge points out that the Germa were hired after Doflamingo's weapons trade to the island had ended, and Reiju remarks that it was actually merciful for them to trounce one side and end the war early. However, Ichiji and Niji do not care about such ideals, only the money that comes from their services, and Yonji suggests being hired by both sides of a war to maximize their profits. However, Judge declines the idea on account of they would be more like pirates stating Germa Kingdom is still being a member nation of the World Government, although he expects to have their rights to go to Levely get revoked once they form an alliance with the Big Mom Pirates.
As Judge looks forward to the power he will get from this alliance, Niji makes fun of Sanji about his role in achieving Judge's dream and remarks on how he finally proved himself useful to the family. Niji calls out to Sanji who has just finished eating his food as the family conversed. The elder Vinsmoke continues his verbal abuse by stating he never thought he'd see the day that such a thing occurred as he and his brothers were surprised when he disappeared years ago and they all imagined the funny ways and places each of them could of died while out on his own. These remarks cause Yonji to burst out laughing while Sanji simply looks on unfazed by the insults.
In response, Sanji only tells his older brother to eat the food on his plate. Niji gets annoyed and claims that he is not hungry and the food tastes bad, and Sanji gets angry over Niji wasting food. Tensions boil up again, and Niji calls the head chef Cosette to the table to complain about the food. When she arrives, he throws his plate at her, but Sanji steps in and intercepts it. The food slips off the plate as Sanji holds it sideways, and he and Niji face off again, both brothers angrier than ever.

Luffy grows tired as he continues destroying Cracker's endless numbers of Biscuit Soldiers. Cracker taunts Luffy over this, and Luffy declares he will simply destroy the Biscuit Soldiers faster than Cracker can create them. Unleashing Double Culverin, he rapidly destroys the Biscuit Soldiers one by one in a continuous motion, but no matter how fast he goes, Cracker is at the ready with more Biscuit Soldiers. After this fails, Luffy decides to try taking out all the Soldiers in a single blow, so he flies into the air and blows into his arm, activating King Kong Gun. Cracker has his Soldiers form a tight defensive formation in front of him as Luffy unleashes his giant punch, and to Cracker's shock, the King Kong Gun blasts away his Soldiers like nothing as it moves quickly toward him. However, right before Luffy can land a hit on Cracker himself, Gear 4 runs out and Luffy is sent flying away as air spews out of his mouth. Luffy lands by a tree, and is angry with himself as he will be unable to attack for the next ten minutes.
Meanwhile, the Vinsmoke Family looks on as Sanji holds the plate that Niji had thrown at Cosette. The food that was on the plate has fallen off, and Cosette tries to assure Sanji that she will clean it. However, Sanji examines the food, complimenting Cosette on its exquisite craftsmanship as he eats it, which both appalls and flusters her. The Vinsmokes are disgusted at Sanji's actions, but Sanji is just as disgusted with them, berating Niji for his despicable treatment of food and women. This enrages Niji, who tries to kick Sanji. Judge orders Niji to stop, and he stops his kick in midair, but the force of the stopped kick is still powerful enough to blow Cosette away. As Sanji helps her back up, Ichiji says that he does not comprehend Sanji's reasoning, saying that his behavior does not fit that of a royal at all. Judge agrees with Ichiji, and wonders if Sanji's bad behaviors were caused by Zeff as he pulls out a picture of the chef. Judge reveals that thanks to Big Mom, Germa 66 now has the exact location of the Baratie and can attack it anytime they choose, killing Zeff in the process. Tamago had given Judge the picture of Zeff along with the exploding handcuffs now on Sanji's wrists, giving him the tools he needs in order to keep Sanji in line. If Sanji acts out of line, the Baratie will be destroyed and Zeff will be killed, which stuns the young chef. Judge tells him that they will be meeting with Big Mom and Pudding for lunch today, so Sanji is expected to be on his best behavior, and he reflects as his sister and brothers walk out of the room.
Sanji remembers the past, where he attacked Zeff as a young child when the captain of the Cook Pirates attacked the Orbit. Zeff easily overwhelmed Sanji and kicked him into a faraway wall, but Sanji would not give up, biting Zeff's leg declaring his dream to reach the All Blue. Soon afterwards, the force of the storm around them grew, and Sanji was blown into the ocean. To his crew's shock, Zeff cursed the young child before breaking off the mast with a kick and floating on it towards Sanji. The storm passed, and Sanji and Zeff wound up on a rock in the middle of the ocean with no animals or plants. Zeff gave Sanji a bag with five days' worth of food in it and ordered him to go to the other side of the island to watch for ships. Sanji complained that Zeff's bag was significantly bigger than his, but Zeff replied that he needed to eat more since he was an adult. Sanji went to the other side of the island, and rationed his five days' worth of food to last 20 days. 
On the 25th day, Sanji ate his last piece of bread, which had grown moldy. As he ate, he remembered his attitude on the Orbit, where he failed to understand why the chefs ate the passengers' leftovers, claiming they could just throw them out and eat the abundance of fresh food they had in stock. Sanji welled up in tears at the memory, and accidentally dropped his remaining bread into the ocean, making him distraught. On the 70th day, an emaciated Sanji decided to go to the other side of the island and see if Zeff had died. After climbing up the rock formation separating them, Sanji noticed with a shock that Zeff seemed to still have lots of food in his bag, and threatened Zeff at knifepoint for his food. Zeff did not resist as Sanji cut open the bag, but the young chef was shocked as he discovered that the bag only had treasure in it. Sanji wonders in shock what Zeff has been eating, and then sees that the lower half of Zeff's right leg is missing. Zeff revealed that his leg got stuck when he swam into a shipwreck to rescue Sanji, forcing him to slice it off with the anchor chain; he had not eaten at all since they washed up on the island. This drove Sanji to tears, and after the two of them were eventually rescued, they opened the Baratie together. Zeff was very rough on Sanji as the young chef dealt with cooking and women, but the two always had a bond, and when Sanji left the Baratie to join the Straw Hat Pirates two years before the present, he tearfully thanked Zeff for all the old chef had done for him.
Back in the present, Luffy impatiently waits for ten minutes to pass so he can regain his Haki, complaining that it is taking forever. Meanwhile, Cracker creates multiple Biscuit Soldiers to hunt Luffy down, and one of the Soldiers eventually succeeds. It slams its giant Pretzel at Luffy, and Luffy barely manages to dodge, but is barely able to move as the Biscuit Soldier quickly catches up to him and prepares to make a decisive strike.

As one of Cracker's Biscuit Soldiers prepares to attack the weakened and exhausted Luffy, Kingbaum suddenly comes in and kicks the soldier away with a root, apologizing to it as Nami is having him attack against his will. Nami orders the other homies to bring Luffy inside Kingbaum's mouth, leaving them with no other choice due to holding the power of Big Mom's Vivre Card over them. As this happens, Cracker learns Luffy's location, and he heads there as he creates some more Biscuit Soldiers to back him up. Luffy is brought in to rest, and he reveals to Nami that he needs ten minutes to get his Haki back. The Biscuit Soldier then catches up to and chases after the Straw Hats, forcing Nami to have her homie entourage run away. However, she orders some of them to attack the soldier, under the impression that it is Cracker, and the homies are flabbergasted. They are forced to obey her command, but barely do anything before the soldier easily destroys them, and Kingbaum encourages Nami to give up out of futility, but she refuses. Kingbaum then runs into the end, and can do little other than gaze in fear as he and the other homies sense Cracker approaching them. Cracker's presence withers away all of the nearby homies, and he finally reaches the clearing where Kingbaum is. When he sees the tree homie carrying Nami, he expresses disbelief with him. Nami wonders who he is, and the homies reveal that this is Cracker's real body, to her shock. Kingbaum reveals that he is being forced to obey Nami against his will, but Cracker has none of it, and as his presence withers away all the other homies in the area, he takes Pretzel and slices off the top of Kingbaum, removing most of his foliage.
In the Mirro-World, Brulee expresses her anger at Nami for subduing her with a lightning bolt as she prowls around while nursing her wounds. While intent on getting her revenge, she first decides to go after Chopper and Carrot, who are still trapped in here. Meanwhile, Chopper and Carrot think they see Sanji from one of the mirrors, but find out that he has a completely different face, and frighten him as they call out from inside the mirror. They keep pressing on in their search for Sanji's location, but become frozen in fear when they see Big Mom herself on the opposite side of a mirror. Big Mom is very excited, and Eggplant Soldier and another guard note that part of it is because the Vinsmokes are coming from the Germa Kingdom to meet her for lunch. Having overheard this conversation, Chopper and Carrot look for mirrors to the Germa Kingdom.
In the Germa Kingdom, Cosette walks through the corridors, and keeps thinking of Sanji. However, she is suddenly approached by Niji, who gleefully readies his fist. Later, Sanji walks into the room, and drops his cigarette in shock as he sees Cosette's beaten body. He calls for doctors, and Yonji appears from around the corner, stating that Cosette deserved this for being treated higher than her status allows. He says that it was obviously Niji who did it, and offers to take Sanji to him; Sanji complies. Yonji takes Sanji down to the lowest levels, and opens a large door to a room that they were not allowed to go in as kids. The two enter the room, and Sanji gapes in shock as he sees identical Germa 66 soldiers in giant test tubes. Yonji reveals that this is where Germa's soldiers come from; they are the results of experiments performed by their father Judge and Dr. Vegapunk before they were born. The two scientists had unlocked the human Lineage Factor and used it to pioneer cloning research, but this activity was forbidden by the World Government, causing them to arrest Vegapunk and forcing Judge to continue performing the research in the secret. Now, it has borne them an army of strong clones who do not know their origins, never go against their masters, and will reach adulthood within five years. Sanji is utterly appalled by this inhumanity, and struggles to light a cigarette to calm himself down. As this happens, Ichiji and Niji come into the room, and they express their disappointment that Sanji's actions were not at the level they had hoped for. However, when he sees Niji, Sanji focuses entirely on his brother's actions towards Cosette and angrily kicks him in the face, appalling Ichiji and Yonji.

With Cracker facing off against them, Nami tells Kingbaum and the homies to run off while she battles the Sweet Commander. Kingbaum is shocked that she is going up against someone of Cracker's caliber, but Nami initiates her plan as she leaps out of the tree homie's mouth and strikes two Biscuit Soldiers with Thunderbreed Tempo. However, the soldiers are unfazed by the lightning strike, which only singed their biscuit bodies. They then attack Nami, overwhelming and subduing her. Cracker then confronts Nami personally, and asks her why she and Luffy are making the suicidal effort to get Sanji back. Nami replies that although Sanji can be annoying at times, he is one of her treasured crewmates and selflessly helps the crew in times of need, a relationship which Cracker does not seem to understand. Cracker ponders over Nami's words, and decides to attack her himself, believing that she will be unable to cause him pain. Nami manages to block the first few jabs of Pretzel, but Cracker eventually disarms her and holds Pretzel at her neck, saying he will take his time and kill her painfully. However, Luffy then bursts in with Gear 2 activated and punches Cracker, sending him tumbling away. Cracker is delighted to see Luffy again, and Luffy prepares to handle the Sweet Commander himself.
In the Germa Kingdom, Sanji has just kicked Niji square in the face, causing Niji to tumble into the wall. As Niji fixes his injured jaw, Ichiji reminds Sanji that they can have Zeff killed if Sanji keeps attacking, which causes Sanji to falter. Niji takes full advantage of this and quickly moves behind his brother, mocking him for his reaction to Cosette's beating as he rams an electrified knee into his back. Niji then sends Sanji sprawled out on the ground with an electrified punch, and he, Ichiji, and Yonji stand over their brother. They continue mocking Sanji's dedication to Cosette, and Ichiji reminds Sanji that he is still in the family's hierarchy as their failure. Sanji remembers his past in the Germa Kingdom, where he and his siblings stood before Judge. Judge told them that they had been endowed with superhuman abilities that would make them into powerful, emotionless military commanders, and said that they needed to train to awaken them. The siblings began to train, and as a test they jumped off a high balcony. Reiju, Ichiji, Niji, and Yonji landed on their feet easily, but Sanji was caught in his fear of the large fall and failed to jump.
This trend continued, as Sanji would continuously fall behind his siblings in every physical test, even almost drowning once during a swim across the ocean. He and Niji once sparred with wooden swords, and to Sanji's surprise, his sword broke when he tried to strike Niji with it. Niji then responded by viciously beating Sanji with the sword, going for so long that the Germa 66 soldiers had to remove him from Sanji. Sanji's siblings started preying on his weakness and bullied him regularly, with Reiju seeming reluctant but still joining in. Judge was not pleased with Sanji's weakness, and was bewildered to hear a report from one of his aides that Sanji appeared to be a normal human with no superhuman modifications whatsoever. Sanji was in his room feeding a rat when Judge came in, confronting his son over his weakness. Judge grew angry when he saw Sanji feeding the rat, telling him to stop acting like his deceased mother as he sent the rat and the food falling out the window. Judge's brutality caused Sanji to cry, and Sanji's misery continued as his normal human body could not withstand the hard training. Accepting that Sanji was a failed experiment, Judge held a funeral for his son, claiming that he had died in an accident. Ichiji, Niji, and Yonji did not care about the news of their brother's death. In reality, Sanji was taken to a dungeon, where he was left with an iron mask on his head. Shocked and confused, he begged the soldiers to let him speak to Judge, but they revealed that Judge ordered this, as he wished to pretend that Sanji no longer existed. Left alone in the cell, Sanji wailed in agony at the abuse he suffered.

Ichiji, Niji, Yonji, and Reijiu continues their training by combat against Germa 66 soliders. A scientist along with Vinsmoke Judge says that they are developing very fast, describing them as real superhumans. As the Vinsmoke siblings took down the appointed soldiers for training, Judge called them and congratulated them for doing well. 
Meanwhile, Sanji has been imprisoned by six months. The cooks there have been wondering since they were making fancy meals every day, but had no idea where it goes to and was reprimanded by an old cook not to be nosy about it. 
A Germa guard delivered food to Sanji and loosens his iron mask for him to be able to eat. As he was eating, a rat came and seems to be hungry and Sanji offers him a portion of a beef steak. The rat expresses excitement as it eats but then Sanji remembers his father scolding him about a royalty mustn't serve anyone and not to follow her mother's legacy as she is dead. 
Sanji recalls when he was in the kitchen and got his fingers cut and spill a bit of blood. The old cook there asks him if he was alright and says to him that they were told by the King not to allow him go to to the kitchen. Sanji begs the old cook to let him stay. 
As he finishes organizing the food, he went outside even with the rainy weather. As he was walking, a Germa guard ask him that why is he going by himself, and answers him that he'll go see his mom. However, the Germa guard replies that the weather is bad and the medical ward is too far, but Sanji in return says that he can make it. Just when Sanji continued walking, he noted that to don't tell it to his father as he slips because of the slippery floor.
In the middle of his walk through the medical ward, a dog blocks his way and seems to aim for the Sanji's food. He manages to drive it away and makes it to the medical ward as she was seen by a maid through the window. Sanji paused the maid goes out and brings him in.
There, Sanji presented the food to the maid and seems to be already too damaged because of the incidents earlier. The maid says that they don't want to let the queen have stomach trouble. Even so, the maid halfheartedly says that maybe it tastes good and gives it an attempt, only to shriek in disgust.
Sanji came into his mother's room along with the maid delivering food, saying that it's from Sanji. Sanji's mother asks him if he made it for her and agrees but with his fingers fidgeting. The queen exclaims at Eponi, saying not to be presumptuous and bring what Sanji really made for her. Eponi replies that she already threw it into a trash can because it was damaged on his way to the medical ward but the queen retorts as it was obviously a lie. The maid delivers it and Sanji apologizes to his mother saying that he tripped on his way and got it wet in the rain. His mother gives it a try and says it was good. She asks if he can cook again for her and Sanji agrees in joy. However, she passed away.
Back in his cell, Sanji requested a cookbook and some cooking utensils, and while he practiced cooking, he read something in his book about the All Blue. Later, Ichiji, Niji, and Yonji discovered Sanji and entered his cage to beat him up, and Reiju stood nearby. After their brothers had left, she tended to Sanji's wounds, though she said she was not on his side as she did not want to be targeted as well. Reiju said that the modifications made to their bodies had made her brothers incapable of empathy, though they had not affected her in the same way. She then revealed to Sanji that they were about to traverse the Red Line to go to the East Blue and fight some wars there. Sanji was thrown into the wall as the ships comprising the Germa Kingdom split apart and climbed up the Red Line, and as his brothers laid in wait, Sanji revealed to Reiju that he wanted to become a chef, and a shocked Reiju told him to stop telling her things like that.
In the East Blue, the people of Cozia noticed Germa 66's presence and attacked them as Judge continued his troops' onslaught. Sanji asked Reiju if he would have to be around his father if he ran away into the East Blue, and Reiju told him to stand back as she bent the bars of his cell. She then ran off, reminding Sanji that he would get only one chance to escape. As Germa 66 began their invasion of Cozia, Sanji looked for the key to free him from his iron mask, but he was caught by Judge. Sanji pulled out a dagger as he told his father that no one would stop him from leaving. Judge expressed his disappointment at Sanji's insubordinate behavior and told him that since he was now a commoner, he would be sure to die out in the world. However, Judge then stated that he was happy to hear this, since his humanity had prevented him from killing Sanji but Sanji leaving now would fulfill his wish to eliminate his weak son. Judge then requested to Sanji that he should never identify himself as his offspring, since he was the one thing he was ashamed of. This caused Sanji to start bawling. Outside, the Germa 66 soldiers turned their attention to a cruise ship at the port, but left it alone due to it not being related to their mission. Having removed his iron mask, Sanji and Reiju stand outside, with Reiju telling Sanji to get on a ship and abandon his old life, saying that one day he would meet people who would treat him the way he deserved to be treated. She finally told him to not look back as he ran toward the ship in tears.


Luffy and Cracker face off, and Cracker summons more Biscuit Soldiers to attack as Luffy has Nami go back to the homies she has under control. A hungry Luffy tries eating one of the soldiers, but cannot bite into it. Cracker proclaims that his biscuits are especially hard and cannot be eaten, but this exchange causes Nami to remember that Cracker's soldiers are made of biscuit. She then unleashes Rain Spark, dousing all of Cracker's creations with rain. One of them strikes Luffy and blows him back, but its sword shatters, and Luffy is able to break them with a simple Gatling attack. Luffy and Nami realize that the biscuits have an edible composition when dampened, and Nami encourages Luffy to eat the Biscuit Soldiers. He does so, consuming parts of the Biscuit Soldiers, and with parts of them in Luffy's stomach, they are unable to regenerate and are thus disabled. When the rain stops, Cracker makes more Biscuit Soldiers, but with their weakness in mind, Nami has Luffy follow her and the homies under her control to a place where they can change the biscuits' taste. As they run, they are pursued by Cracker and his soldiers.
In the Germa Kingdom, Sanji is left barely conscious on the floor of the cloning facility after being beaten up by his brothers. After his brothers leave, some servants race to attend to him, but Reiju walks in and orders them to leave, insisting despite their pleas. As this happens, Judge completes preparations for their family to head to the Whole Cake Chateau to meet with Big Mom. Reiju takes Sanji to a room, where she places a gelatinous mask on Sanji's face. The mask crackles with electricity, giving Sanji a nasty shock. At the end, his face stops swelling thanks to the mask, although it still hurts to the touch since his bruises have been made worse. Reiju remarks that she fails to understand why Sanji came back here just for Zeff, though assures him that at least he will have the comfort of married life with Pudding. She then asks why he is so chivalrous, and Sanji explains. Back when he was a child on the Baratie, he and his coworkers begged Zeff to hire a female cook. Zeff refused, saying that he used kicks to discipline people, which he could not do on a woman. Sanji failed to understand why he could not kick a woman, causing Zeff to kick him on the head multiple times. Zeff explained to Sanji that kicking a woman was unbecoming of a man, and he would chop his own head off if Sanji did it because it meant he would have failed as a parent; Zeff's affirmation of his parental relationship with Sanji caused Sanji to be surprised.
In the Mirro-World, Brulee searches for Chopper and Carrot, wondering where they could have gone after she put shackles on them. Meanwhile, Chopper and Carrot once again fail to find a mirror with Sanji on the other side, and at that moment Brulee appears before them. The duo grab their shackles and run in fear as Brulee chases them with a scythe in her hand, although they quickly begin to tire from their chains.
Later, Luffy throws a Biscuit Soldier into a juice river, giving Cracker's forces a juicy taste as he consumes them. Cracker is angered by Luffy's actions, but continues making soldiers to chip away at Luffy's endurance. Nami unleashes another rain cloud, telling Luffy to feast on normal-flavored biscuits this time. However, Luffy starts to feel full as he expands in mass. Several hours pass, and Luffy has ballooned considerably as his stomach has reached its limits. Cracker is faring no better, as he is exhausted, but he continues to make biscuit soldiers. With Nami still up and around thanks to the homies' protection, Cracker yells at Kingbaum for his insubordination; despite Kingbaum's pleas that Nami is forcing him to act against his will, Cracker will not hear it. Despite his exhaustion and anger, Cracker is confident that he can overwhelm Luffy; as Nami unleashes some more rain, Luffy does not think he can eat anymore. However, fueled by his desire to reunite with Sanji, Luffy puts it aside and continues eating through Cracker's biscuit soldiers, causing the standoff to continue.

In the Germa Kingdom, Reiju and Sanji are summoned to head out along with the rest of their family to meet Big Mom at the Whole Cake Chateau. Reiju gives Sanji a shirt to replace his tattered one before they do so.
After eating more of Cracker's biscuit soldiers, Luffy is so bloated that he is barely able to stand, and he says that he cannot take anymore. An exhausted Cracker gleefully tries to bring Luffy to the limit by sending more Biscuit Soldiers at him, but Luffy and Nami refuse to quit as the latter sprays the soldiers with rain once again and Luffy eats them despite feeling awful. An outraged Cracker wonders if Luffy's stomach is infinite, and although Luffy cannot even stand, he still faces off with the Sweet Commander. Nami declares that Luffy's stomach can take anything, although the homies around her object as Luffy is clearly at his limit. Luffy declares that he will not throw up all the biscuits he has eaten, and an enraged Cracker promises to make it less painful for him by stabbing him in the stomach. Cracker races toward Luffy himself with Pretzel at the ready, and in response, Luffy blows into his arm and activates Gear 4. However, this time Luffy takes on a much bigger and rounder form called Tankman: Full Version, and Cracker swings Pretzel at him, but is unable to cut through Luffy's Busoshoku Haki.
Cracker then tries skewering Luffy, and after initially being unsuccessful again, he tries an even stronger attack. Once again, he cannot cut through Luffy, but the power of the thrust causes Pretzel to get sucked into Luffy's inflated body, dragging Cracker along with it. As he is trapped in the folds of Luffy's body, Cracker's remaining Biscuit Soldiers march toward Luffy, but Luffy tells Nami not to soften them with rain this time. Luffy then ejects Cracker from his body, sending him crashing through his Biscuit Soldiers at high velocity. Cracker continues to fly with great force, destroying many of the Seducing Woods homies before flying all the way into Sweet City. As this happens, Big Mom receives a report that Smoothie has reported to the Whole Cake Chateau while Katakuri is almost there. Big Mom looks forward to having all her Three Sweet Commanders in one place, and wonders about the status of Cracker's confrontation with Luffy. Outside, Cracker crashes into the Whole Cake Chateau and his unconscious body falls to the ground, which draws the attention of Big Mom as well as everyone outside. Cracker's siblings Charlotte Mont-d'Or, Charlotte Opera, and Charlotte Galette stand over him in shock, and realizing Luffy must have done this, they raise a state of alarm over Sweet City, causing the citizens to panic and evacuate.
Back in the Seducing Woods, Luffy deactivates Gear 4, and Pound comes out of a hiding spot, openly admitting he was scared of the battle. As Luffy lies on the ground, Nami rejoices in their victory, but no one shares her joy as Pound and Kingbaum look at her forlornly. They reveal that this event will ignite Big Mom's rage, just like when Urouge defeated Snack. When that happened, the enraged Big Mom unleashed a storm thanks to her control over a living thundercloud named Zeus and a living sun named Prometheus. As Cracker's massive fleet set out to take down Urouge, Big Mom's storm resulted in Urouge's ship being quickly shipwrecked. However, despite this threat, Luffy is still intent on rescuing Sanji, knowing they do not have too long before the wedding begins and hearing that Sanji is set to come to Big Mom's castle. He orders Kingbaum to carry him and Nami out of the Seducing Woods, and the homie is forced to comply once again due to Nami's Vivre Card. He wonders how they have that, saying that not even Big Mom's children are allowed to have one due to its power.
In the Mirro-World, Brulee continues pursuing Chopper and Carrot, who have managed to hide in a corner. As they sit too exhausted to think clearly, Carrot suddenly sees Sanji standing in the mirror in front of her. Chopper and Carrot go up to it and try calling out to Sanji, but before he can notice them, Reiju steps in front of the mirror. Reiju asks if he is ready to go to the Whole Cake Chateau, giving Chopper and Carrot their upcoming location. The duo prepare to go and tell Luffy and Nami, but Brulee suddenly reaches them, causing them to scream. Sanji and Reiju head outside, where Sanji is greeted with raucous cheering from the Germa 66 soldiers. Sanji solemnly makes his way to the carriage on the road, where his father and brothers wait. Ichiji gives him a red cape, which Sanji puts on as he takes his seat in the carriage. As the carriage sets off, Judge tells Sanji to wave at the soldiers, but Sanji instead looks up at the ceiling, where he thinks about his crewmates and imagines he is with them again for a brief moment before being brought back to reality.

On the Baratie two years ago, Sanji gave food to a starving Gin. Luffy watched this affair, and asked Sanji to join his crew as the cook. Later, during the battle against Don Krieg, Sanji watched in amazement as Luffy fought fearlessly, risking injury and finding creative ways to take down his opponent. Back in the present, Luffy and Nami ride Kingbaum out of the Seducing Woods, and Nami talks to Chopper and Carrot through a mirror shard. They report that Sanji is heading for the Whole Cake Chateau and assure that they are OK, although the communication cuts out intermittently before the mirror shard suddenly breaks. In the Mirro-World, Brulee has lost track of Chopper and Carrot again, but she gets an idea and pulls Randolph, his crane, and the Noble Croc into the Mirro-World to help her hunt the duo down. Although Chopper and Carrot are frightened, Chopper gets the idea to use Brulee's powers for their own benefit.
Several days ago on Zou, Sanji had first received the summons from Capone Bege to go to Whole Cake Island and marry Charlotte Pudding, much to the shock of his crewmates, but he was prepared to face the consequences for them. When he had battled Cracker, Luffy confidently asserted that he would be getting Sanji back and after a hard fight, he finally managed to take down the Sweet Commander. In the present, Nami witnesses in shock as a sleeping Luffy reverts back to his normal size. Kingbaum then points out that Sanji's family is on the road right in front of them, which wakes Luffy up. Luffy sees Sanji and excitedly bounds toward the carriage, where he grabs onto the door and faces Sanji directly. The Germa 66 soldiers circle around to attack, but as Luffy talks to Sanji, the cook suddenly kicks him away. Sanji tells Luffy that he has embraced his royal heritage and family name, so Luffy should get going, and he calls Luffy and the other Straw Hats low-class pirates. Luffy refuses to believe Sanji, and Yonji offers his help in getting rid of Luffy, but Sanji proclaims that he will do it himself.
In his childhood, Sanji was abused heavily by his brothers and imprisoned by his father in order to be hidden away from society. When given the chance of freedom, Judge allowed him to go, but on the condition that he never mention him as his father. With Reiju's assistance, Sanji escaped to the Orbit with tears in his eyes. When the cooks returned to the ship, they met Sanji, who begged them to take him in since he dreamed of being a cook. On the Orbit and later the Baratie, Sanji told people about the All Blue, which he had read about in the Germa Kingdom, and was what drove him to struggle against Zeff when his crew attacked the Orbit. When Sanji was tossed overboard in a storm, Zeff dived in to save him and cut off his leg when it was caught in an anchor, and when the two of them were stranded on an island, Zeff gave Sanji all the food rations while pretending a bag of treasure was his food. Sanji came to truly realize Zeff was a real father to him when Zeff prohibited him from ever kicking a woman, saying it would bring dishonor to him as he raised Sanji.

Remembering Judge's threats on his hands and Zeff during his return to the Germa Kingdom, Sanji stared in shock at Luffy as his captain raced toward him. Luffy grabbed onto the carriage to talk to Sanji directly, and with everything against him racing through his mind, Sanji made the decision to kick Luffy away and claim that he has forsaken the Straw Hats and embraced his royal heritage as prince Vinsmoke Sanji. Sanji claims that he will be happier in the ranks of the Big Mom Pirates, where he will be treated to power and luxury as opposed to the meager existence of the Straw Hats. He says that he has been looking down on Luffy and his crewmates the whole time and is willing to prove it as he activates Diable Jambe. He then charges at the motionless Luffy and kicks him in the face, sending him tumbling away.
Luffy gets back up to face Sanji, who says that he should use Haki if he wants to live. Luffy replies that he has no need for Haki when he just wants to speak with Sanji, and Sanji tells Luffy to leave in that case. Luffy refuses, and Sanji calls him selfish as he strikes Luffy again. Luffy gets back up, and Nami pleads for Sanji to stop, saying that Luffy has pushed himself to the limit against Cracker just to get this far. However, Luffy silences Nami, saying this is a duel. Sanji then barrages Luffy with many kicks, but Luffy refuses to back down or fall, much to his chagrin. At last, Sanji has finally had enough and prepares to deal a finishing blow. He spins to reignite Diable Jambe before taking to the air with Sky Walk, spinning around in a fiery circle as he falls toward Luffy. He plants his heel into the top of Luffy's head with deadly force, and Luffy initially tries resisting it, but eventually succumbs to the power and falls unconscious.
Sanji walks back to the carriage as Luffy lies on the ground bleeding, and an anguished Nami races to Luffy's side. She then goes up to Sanji and slaps him, grimly apologizing for coming to rescue him before walking away. Sanji returns to his seat next to his impressed brothers, and as the carriage heads away, Luffy regains consciousness and calls out to Sanji. He says that he knows Sanji is putting on an act, and that Sanji was the one who was truly hurt by all the kicks he unleashed. Luffy proclaims that he cannot go on his journey and become Pirate King without Sanji, so he will wait in this spot and not eat anything until Sanji returns. Luffy's words cause Sanji to break down in tears, and his brothers laugh at him as they head out of sight of Luffy. A montage of Sanji's times with the crew is then shown as Luffy is shown lying down on the clearing.

Inside her throne room, Big Mom reacts in shock and anger to the report of Cracker's defeat. Trembling with rage, she summons her homies Zeus and Prometheus to her side and mutters Luffy's name. On the outskirts of Sweet City, Luffy lies on the ground panting, and Nami brings up the account of the Big Mom Pirates' rage when their last Sweet Commander was defeated. She, Luffy, and Kingbaum then look on in awe and fear as they see dark clouds coming out of the Whole Cake Chateau, remembering Pound's account of how the same thing happened last time. The clouds stretch out to cover the entire area, and the citizens gaze on in amazement as they watch Zeus and Prometheus flying around wildly to create a storm. As the Vinsmoke Family's carriage draws closer to the Whole Cake Chateau, the building's massive gates open, and a massive army of Big Mom's forces emerges from it. Sanji's brothers note that these forces are likely headed to bring down Luffy, and they boast several infamous pirates with high bounties. The brothers state with glee that Luffy's only hope of survival is to not stay in that spot like he told Sanji, and Sanji looks extremely conflicted.
Rain then comes pouring down from the clouds, but it is syrup instead of water. Luffy turns around to lie with his face toward the ground, saying that he did not even want syrup in his mouth while he waited for Sanji's cooking. In Sweet City, the Vinsmokes reach the Whole Cake Chateau, and are greeted by Baron Tamago as some umbrella homies come to cover the family when they step into the rain. The Vinsmokes note with gladness that they are soon to ally with the unbelievably strong forces they just passed by as they step into the Chateau. Inside, Big Mom walks through the halls still in a fuming rage, but snaps out of it when her daughter Anana comes up to her. Anana wants knives to mutilate her stuffed animal, but the head chef is preventing her from getting some. Big Mom responds by ordering her sons Dolce and Dragee to get Anana knives, to which they protest since she will use them to pop their balloons. However, Big Mom replies that it is natural to develop a killing instinct and tells all the children in the room to get excited for Pudding's wedding tomorrow. She then steps into the dining room where the Vinsmokes are, and their lunch begins. Big Mom and Judge have a toast to the formation of their alliance tomorrow, and Pudding comes in to eat. Tons of food homies then come to the table dancing and singing, and the Vinsmokes are perturbed at having to eat the living morsels. As everyone eats, Pudding slips Sanji a note asking him to meet with her privately later.
In the outskirts, the force of the storm has increased considerably and the enraged army has come into Luffy, Nami, and Kingbaum's view. Luffy tells Nami to run away, and Nami tries to get him to do so as well, but Luffy refuses to move from his spot because he wants to ensure he is there when Sanji comes back. Refusing to give even an inch, Luffy faces off against the massive army.

Big Mom's enraged army stops to face Luffy, who tells Nami and Kingbaum to run away. Nami reluctantly complies, and the enraged army is incredulous at Luffy's fighting ability in his current physical state. However, Luffy does not pay any mind to their words and activates Gear 2, plowing through dozens of Chess Soldiers. Two Chess Soldiers manage to grab hold of Luffy and allow others to jump him, but Luffy repels them by inflating himself. More Chess Soldiers shoot arrows at Luffy, but he inhales more air into his body and twists around, exhaling hard enough to create a whirlwind that blows everything nearby away. Nami and Kingbaum see this as the latter carries the former away, and are awed and frightened by the spectacle.
In Pudding's room, she confesses to Sanji that she had arranged to get the Straw Hats to the coast of Whole Cake Island and bring him there to reunite with them, but was unable to uphold her word. However, Sanji replies that he would not have come to the coast anyways, as doing so would put the lives of his friends in jeopardy and get his hands destroyed. Pudding reveals that all people arranged to marry into the Charlotte Family have those exploding cuffs put on, and Sanji then takes his mask off, revealing his beaten face. He tells Pudding that this is the kind of treatment he receives from his family, which caused him to run away from them 13 years ago. Now, however, they are threatening the people that treated him like family, and with no way out of this situation, he has given in.
Back in the outskirts of Sweet City, Luffy continues pummeling Chess Soldiers, but Charlotte Opera goes on the offensive as he grabs Luffy with tentacles of cream. The cream's sweetness causes it to burn Luffy, but he manages to struggle his way out of it. However, he is then confronted by Bobbin, who bobs his head from side to side and emits waves that make Luffy fall asleep. When Luffy is incapacitated, Bobbin pulls out his sword and rushes at him, but Nami and Kingbaum suddenly come to the rescue. The enraged army members say that Kingbaum has committed mutiny against the Big Mom Pirates, although the homie did not willingly go back as he was forced to return by Nami's Vivre Card. Although Nami and Kingbaum are back on Luffy's side, the battle is still extremely uneven, and the fighting resumes. Meanwhile, in the Mirro-World, Randolph begins attacking Chopper and Carrot. He manages to overwhelm Carrot, who cannot dodge due to her shackles, but Chopper intercepts Randolph's strike and tells Carrot that they are done fighting as he throws the rabbit homie towards the ceiling.
Despite Kingbaum's pleas, the Chess Soldiers climb on him in order to reach Nami. However, they are all suddenly disabled due to the power of her Vivre Card, to Galette's shock. Meanwhile, Counter, Cadenza, and Cabaletta all race toward Luffy, who attacks them with Elephant Gun. The trio coat their arms in Busoshoku Haki and clash with Luffy evenly. After a long struggle, Opera then comes in and floods Luffy in cream, burning his legs. Eventually, Luffy can no longer take the pain and gives ground, allowing Opera's brothers to overpower him and send him flying. As this happens, Sanji reflects on what his crewmates are currently going through in order to get him back, saying his adventure with them is over and that he does not wish for them to struggle. Nami strikes some Chess Soldiers with lightning, but more keep coming, and she gets the idea to use the storm clouds in the air. Unleashing another Weather Egg, she attracts a massive amount of storm energy into her cloud, allowing her to unleash a large quantity of purple lightning that takes out every Chess Soldier in sight. Everyone in the area is awed by this sight, and Luffy's drive to fight to stay and wait for Sanji is renewed. Back in Pudding's room, Pudding weeps in apology for making Sanji's life hell by being arranged to marry him and keep him away from his friends, but he tells her she has nothing to apologize for. Pudding tries assuring Sanji that she will not make their marriage hell, and he embraces her, deciding to aim for the best life afforded to him by marrying her without struggle tomorrow. As he seals this promise, the lightning from Nami's attack lights up the room.

Luffy continues plowing through hordes of Chess Soldiers, and Charlotte Mascarpone and Joscarpone confront him. The two Snakenecks jab their spears at him, but Luffy dodges them and kicks them in the necks. Bobbin and more Chess Soldiers approach Luffy, and Bobbin says that Luffy is near his limit so they should keep attacking, but Luffy replies that he is not going anywhere. Meanwhile, Nami assists Luffy by unleashing another massive round of thunderbolts, but before she can use Big Mom's storm clouds again, Galette binds her arms with a gelatinous substance. Covering Nami's body in a sparkly liquid substance, Galette forces her off of Kingbaum and onto her knees on the ground. Amande then walks up Kingbaum until she reaches his face, and unsheathes her Meito Shirauo. Kingbaum again tries to plead that he has no control over his actions, but Amande does not listen as she slowly brings her sword down into his body. She very slowly cuts him vertically, and the anguished homie begs her to kill him quickly, but she responds that it is only worthwhile to kill an enemy slowly and painfully. As Luffy continues fighting Chess Soldiers, Mont-d'Or stands above him on two levitating books and remarks that his feat is impressive because the Chess Soldiers are not weak and he is already worn from fighting Cracker. However, Opera comes in to attack Luffy again, and burns him with cream.
In the Mirro-World, Chopper and Carrot face off against Brulee, Randolph, the Noble Croc, and Diesel. Chopper immediately goes on the offensive as he pummels the Noble Croc before intercepting Randolph's attack. Diesel races at a high speed to attack Carrot, but she dodges him even faster and he quickly has to turn around and parry her Electro strike. However, Brulee emerges from a mirror behind Carrot, and Chopper barely manages to pull her out of the way of Brulee's scythe. Brulee's attack frees Chopper and Carrot from their chains, and she quickly enters another mirror. Suddenly, three reflection duplicates each of Chopper and Carrot come into the Mirro-World and subdue the two of them.
Luffy tries to attack Opera with Elephant Gun, but Mont-d'Or blocks his strike with a book, which seems to suck him in. Luffy is placed under the illusion that he is in the book's world, and when various threats in it come to attack him, he reacts to it in the real world despite no one attacking him, which confuses Nami. The Big Mom Pirates then take turns attacking Luffy while he is blinded, and Luffy is assaulted by both their real attacks and the fake attacks inside the book. Charlotte Counter and Cadenza bring it home by punching Luffy from both sides with massive Haki-imbued fists, and after their second attack, Luffy finally collapses. Meanwhile, Sanji walks down a corridor in the Whole Cake Chateau until he reaches Big Mom's throne room, where she sits eating desserts. Sanji tells her that he will marry Pudding without resisting, and in return, he requests that Big Mom spare his friends. Big Mom agrees to this deal, though points out that the Straw Hats have already committed egregious offenses against her. However, she will let them go because the wedding ceremony tomorrow is more important to her, and Sanji is overjoyed. Meanwhile, the enraged army rejoices in their victory and surveys the damage of the battle. Amande then approaches Nami and reaches into her dress, pulling out the Vivre Card she got from Lola. The army is shocked, and thinks Nami killed Lola, although Nami attempts to explain that they are friends. The army then takes her away, and Counter tries to pull Luffy off the ground, but to his surprise Luffy is still conscious and gripping onto the grass. Counter stomps Luffy multiple times, and eventually succeeds in knocking Luffy out and successfully pulling him away from the spot where he promised to wait for Sanji.

Inside Sanji's guest room, he looks out the window and thinks about his rejection of his crew, and the army sent out by Big Mom to attack Luffy and Nami. Meanwhile, Luffy wakes up and finds that his arms are bound to a wall behind him. Nami is next to him with the same binding, as the two are imprisoned in a page in a giant book. Several Big Mom Pirates stand outside, revealing that Luffy and Nami are trapped thanks to Mont-d'Or's ability. Luffy tries to pull off his binding, but is unsuccessful, and the Big Mom Pirates just laugh as they close the book. In the Mirro-World, Chopper and Carrot face off against Brulee, her henchmen, and several animals that have been transformed into their reflections. Carrot wonders what they should do, and Chopper gets an idea, which he whispers to her. Brulee gets mad at their plotting and has their reflections attack them, but the animal copies wind up attacking Chopper and Carrot's reflections instead. The animals then pounce on the real Chopper and Carrot, and the Noble Croc comes racing in with chains in his arms in order to capture the duo.
In the Room of Treasure in the Whole Cake Chateau, Brook's disembodied soul comes in through the wall and surveys the room, noting the amount of security in it and spotting the three Poneglyphs contained inside: two normal and one Road Poneglyph. Tamago talks to Sweet Commander Charlotte Smoothie about the importance of the Poneglyphs, one of which they had just received from Jinbe upon his and Wadatsumi's arrival at Whole Cake Island yesterday. As he talks, Smoothie wrings a liquid out of a woman like she is a cloth, and asks Tamago why they need extra security now. Tamago reveals that Pedro has been reported to be on the island, and the mink captain had attempted to steal their Poneglyphs five years ago. Brook is shocked at what he has seen and heard, and goes back to the wine cellar where he and Pedro are hiding. He tells Pedro about the level of security in the room, and they know they will not be able to get past all of it. However, since Tamago seems to be specifically keeping an eye out for Pedro, the duo get the idea to use the mink as bait.
In Brulee's house in the Mirro-World, she and her henchmen gather around a giant pot homie filled with boiling water. Carrot is tied on a rope above it, and Brulee's group looks forward to cooking and eating her. Chopper tries to claim that she will not taste good, but he is ignored and told that he will be added to Big Mom's collection of rare creatures. However, this situation is just what Chopper has planned, and he made sure to get captured in Heavy Point so that he could escape from his chains. Enough time has passed for him to be able to activate Monster Point as well, and he waits to execute his plan. Meanwhile, Big Mom takes the Vinsmoke Family to her library, where she shows them her collection of rare animals and races trapped inside books with the help of Mont-d'Or's ability. As she talks, Judge asks her about giants, having not noticed any in Totto Land yet. Big Mom's expression darkens considerably, but she simply claims that Judge has just happened not to see any. One of her servants then comes and reports that they have brought Luffy and Nami to the necessary spot, growing flustered as he stares at the Vinsmokes. Big Mom excuses herself and goes with him, berating him for getting overly excited about people from a comic strip. In the Prisoner Library, the Big Mom Pirates, now joined by Perospero, open a book to the page Luffy and Nami are in and position Big Mom's Den Den Mushi in front of them. Big Mom then speaks to Luffy and Nami, bringing up Luffy's declaration of war on Fish-Man Island and wondering why Luffy did not bring his entire crew. However, Luffy replies that he only came to rescue Sanji, and Big Mom says that he will rot in his cell forever. Luffy retorts by challenging Big Mom to fight him, and his defiance surprises her.

Pedro continues his assault through the corridors of the Whole Cake Chateau, slicing through guards before they can raise their weapons in defense. His sheer speed blows soldiers away, and he uses explosives to take out multiple opponents at once. As his rampage continues, Tamago and Smoothie race to corner him as they keep tabs on his location. However, Tamago wonders about Pedro trying to steal the Poneglyphs and then realizes that Brook had evaded their security just like Pedro did. Smoothie then goes back to the Room of Treasure, but as this is happening Brook is already at the entrance. He takes out several of the guards there, and when the rest of them try shutting the doors and locking him out, he speeds his way into the room. The doors remain locked as Smoothie comes to the room, and with those being the only way out, she lies in wait for Brook to come out. She initially intends to kill him, but Tamago says to leave him alive, as Big Mom will want him for her collection. Inside the room, Brook is confronted by the guards inside, and notes that the Chess Soldiers are all created from pieces of soul as he pulls out his guitar. However, the soldiers attack and overwhelm him before he can strike the right chords on his guitar, and they all converge on him. However, Brook manages to start playing and blow them away with a burst of soul energy, blasting their souls out of their bodies as a demonic soul specter manifests behind him.
In Brulee's house in the Mirro-World, Brulee prepares to submerge Carrot into a pot of boiling water, and her hungry crewmates are anxious to finally eat her. However, Chopper reveals that Brulee has dug her own grave. When he and Carrot were attacked by their mirror clones, Brulee's team captured one of Carrot's mirror copies, which was a frog transformed into her reflection. The real Carrot is in Brulee's attic, projecting her voice to make it seem like the frog clone is speaking. Brulee then has Randolph cut the rope holding the frog they believe is Carrot over the pot, but as Randolph prepares to do so, Carrot hurls a rock at him and knocks him backward. Brulee is surprised at Randolph's fall, and fails to see Carrot climbing down to her mirror clone until Diesel points it out. Carrot keeps her duplicate under control as she swings on the rope, and as Randolph attempts to cut it again, Carrot falls toward the side of the pot and kicks it at Brulee, tipping it over and dousing her in boiling water. The Big Mom Pirates fall into chaos, and Chopper joins the counterattack as he returns to his normal form to escape from his chains and eats a Rumble Ball, allowing him to activate Monster Point.
Meanwhile, after hearing about them from Eggplant Soldier, Sanji leaves his room to go pick flowers for Pudding to comfort her after their emotional meeting earlier. As he does this, Luffy continues resisting in his cell in the Prisoner Library. Suddenly, Pudding arrives and asks Opera if she can speak with Luffy and Nami. She enters their cell thanks to a bookmark, and confesses her failure to help rescue Sanji by bringing him to the Straw Hats like they had agreed back on Cacao Island. She talks in whisper to prevent Opera from hearing her, which confuses him. As Sanji picks flowers for Pudding, she continues talking to Luffy and Nami, and they stare at her in shock as she goes on.

Luffy and Nami are surprised by Pudding's revelation that Sanji proposed to her, but Pudding then says that she knows he only did it to be polite. She has no desire to marry him if he does not want to do it, and whispers something to Luffy and Nami. Her words leave the two gaping in astonishment, and Luffy struggles to take in what Pudding just told him as she leaves the Prisoner Library, tearfully bidding them goodbye.
Inside a room in the Whole Cake Chateau, the Vinsmoke Family, except for Reiju, sits and drinks tea. Judge states that Pudding will live with them in the Germa Kingdom after the wedding, as he wants to use her as leverage in order to prevent the Big Mom Pirates from taking advantage of them in their new partnership. Niji wonders if the Big Mom Pirates will try to do the same thing with Sanji, but Ichiji reminds him that they do not care for Sanji's well-being. This causes the brothers to chuckle, and Niji looks forward to living with Sanji again. In his room, Sanji prepares a bouquet of flowers for Pudding as Eggplant Soldier comes in with the ingredients Sanji requested. He reveals that Luffy and Nami are currently being detained, and Sanji is initially worried, but reminds himself that Big Mom agreed to let them go after the wedding. However, he is concerned when he hears of Brook still rampaging in the chateau, and tells the servant to stop talking and give him his ingredients. Since Pudding did not eat much during lunch, he wants to make her a meal, and he prepares to make it in the room's kitchen.
In Brulee's house, chaos abounds after Carrot doused Brulee in boiling water. Brulee's henchmen rush to attack Carrot, but she balls up Electro in her hands and slams it into the floor, creating an electric blast that shocks her attackers as well as the writing Brulee. Meanwhile, the Noble Croc notices Chopper standing behind him in Monster Point, but cannot do anything before Chopper picks him up by the table and flips him over, smashing his back into the floor. Diesel is the only Big Mom Pirate still standing, and he runs from the house at a great speed in order to report this attack to Big Mom. However, Carrot manages to catch up to him and covers his eyes, causing him to run towards a wall. When Diesel regains his sight, he is unable to stop in time, and crashes into the wall. Chopper and Carrot then celebrate their victory, and prepare to use Brulee's power to explore the Mirro-World and find all their crewmates.
In the Room of Treasure, Brook finishes off all the Chess Soldier homies with his soul power and turns his attention to the non-homie guards inside the room. They charge him, but Brook counters their attacks as he defeats them all with swift sword slashes. The largest fighter proves tougher than the rest, but Brook unleashes a powerful attack to break through his shield and armor. Brook then takes the keys to the cages containing the Poneglyphs and goes off to transcribe them. However, as Smoothie deduces that all the guards were defeated and prepares to break in, Big Mom suddenly comes in. She tells her daughter to move aside as she shatters the door to the room, and confronts Brook as he transcribes her Road Poneglyph. Brook is petrified to see her, and although Big Mom is angry at his intrusion, she does note that he is a very unusual creature.
Meanwhile, Reiju sneaks through the chateau and approaches a room with a door homie, but then turns back. She then creeps around outside, only to come face to face with a gun. Reiju recognizes the person behind the gun in shock, and she is shot. Inside the chateau, Pedro is pushed into the third floor courtyard by a battalion of Chess Soldiers. There, he confronts Baron Tamago. Tamago remarks that he is surprised to see Pedro back here, after he had so stubbornly clung to life the last time he came to Totto Land five years ago and got 50 years of his lifespan removed. The confrontation triggers a reaction in Tamago's left eye, which was taken out in his battle with Pedro five years ago, and things start heating up as Pedro reveals his own left eye, which had also been taken out. Pedro replies that this time, he was willing to lay his life down, but not before the Straw Hats had accomplished their goals. Meanwhile, Reiju manages to make her way back into the chateau, but collapses in the corridor from the gunshot wound on her lower body. In the Prisoner Library, Luffy tries to pull off the stake binding his hands in an attempt to escape, but to no avail. However, when he accidentally twists his arms around himself, Luffy gets an idea and spins around more, causing him to pull at the stake as he fights to escape no matter what.

After having defeated Charlotte Brulee, Chopper and Carrot search for a mirror leading to Sanji. They ride on Diesel's back, carrying Brulee's unconscious body. Carrot attempts to wake Brulee up, but fails to do so.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Nami are still trapped inside Mont-d'Or's book. They are watched by Opera, who mock them and tell them they cannot escape. As Luffy's hands are nailed to the prison wall, he gets the idea to tear his arms off in order to escape. His arms start to tear but he struggles to rip free. He keeps trying.
In the room of treasure, much to the surprise of Smoothie, Big Mom herself appears to confront the intruder. Brook explains that he aims to make a copy of Big Mom's Road Poneglyph. They prepare to fight.
Baron Tamago finds and confronts Pedro in the courtyard. They begin to fight, but Tamago gets the upper hand as he is wearing tights that are resistant to Pedro's Electro. They reminisce on the incident five years ago that cost both of them their left eye.
Five years ago, Pedro, leading the Nox Pirates, intruded Whole Cake Island to look for Poneglyphs along with his friend Zepo. They approached the room of treasure only to be confronted by Tamago. Pedro battles Tamago and wins, causing Tamago to lose his left eye. However, Big Mom appears and confronts Pedro and Zepo.
As punishment for the invasion, Big Mom uses her Devil Fruit ability to take away a hundred years from Zepo's lifespan. However, at the time, Zepo only had thirty years left to live, leaving seventy years unaccounted for. Pedro ends up cutting out his left eye, which leads Big Mom to reduce this to fifty years removed from Pedro's lifespan.
Back to present day, Tamago knocks Pedro into a wall. Pedro states that he is indebted to the Straw Hat Pirates for saving Zou from the Beasts Pirates, and he will spend the remainder of his life fighting for them. With this, Pedro leaps at Tamago, breaks his sword, and cuts him in half. Because of Tamago's Devil Fruit ability, an egg yolk comes out of Tamago's body.

Having been trapped in a book from Mont-d'Or's Devil Fruit ability, Luffy continues to try tearing his arms off to escape. He continues to struggle to do so.
Meanwhile, Sanji finishes making a meal for his fiancee, Pudding. However, Pudding's bedroom door is a homie, who denies him entry. He decides to try entering through Pudding's balcony.
Sanji goes outside in the pouring rain to Pudding's bedroom window. However, to his surprise, he sees Reiju, who has been bound to a chair by Nitro, a jelly homie. He also finds, to his horror, that Pudding has a third eye on her forehead.
Pudding mocks Reiju, revealing her true nature. She reveals that she plans to assassinate the entire Vinsmoke Family as well as the Straw Hat Pirates during the wedding the next day. She also expresses disgust for Sanji, revealing that she had been faking her crush on him the entire time. Lastly, Pudding reveals that Big Mom only arranged the marriage to steal Germa 66's clone army for military purposes. She continues to disparagingly mock Sanji while her homies laugh, all while Sanji was listening through the window.
Heartbroken, Sanji attempts to light his cigarette, but fails to do so in the pouring rain. 

As Sanji sits outside Pudding's room, wallowing in depression after overhearing her intention to kill him and his family at their wedding tomorrow, Pudding continues mocking him in front of Reiju. However, Reiju starts to get weaker, and Pudding prepares to get assistance for her since Reiju needs to be present at the wedding. Noting that it was impressive how Reiju managed to run away from her for a bit after being shot in the leg, Pudding reaches into Reiju's head and pulls out a roll of film containing Reiju's memories with the power of the Memo Memo no Mi, focusing on Reiju's memories of being shot and running away before eventually collapsing and being captured. Pudding then cuts out Reiju's memories of their encounter, and replaces it with someone else's memory of being shot by a Chess Soldier's stray bullet in order to explain Reiju's injuries. Reiju falls unconscious, and Pudding has her taken to a medical ward to treat her injuries. During this time, Sanji leaves the area outside Pudding's room.
In the Room of Treasure, Brook stands firm against Big Mom in order to complete his mission of transcribing the Poneglyphs in her possession. Looking for an opening to get past Big Mom, Brook does not see any, but takes off as he runs up the wall. He then runs around the circumference of the room, his sheer speed causing Big Mom to struggle to keep up with him. However, when he manages to get behind her and attempts to attack, Big Mom quickly sees him and repels him with Prometheus. Brook does not manage to land any attacks thanks to Prometheus' and Zeus' tight defense, and the two weather homies assault him with powerful attacks. Brook then tries to overpower them with his soul power like he did to the Chess Soldiers, but although his music does give them great discomfort, they come out of it unaffected. They then injure him further with more powerful attacks, seemingly defeating him, but as Big Mom tries to grab him to take for her collection, he crawls away and slowly gets back up. Zeus and Prometheus get into an argument as to who should finish him off, causing Brook to spot an opening on Big Mom and rush in to attack her. However, Big Mom's bicorne homie Napoleon releases a sword hidden within it and slams into Brook. Big Mom then asks the nearly-defeated Brook if he has had enough, and is surprised to see him get up again. Brook states that he knows Sanji is likely here to sacrifice himself, and so will be unlikely to come back with them. Thus, if Luffy fails, he wants their mission to Whole Cake Island to at least be fruitful by acquiring Big Mom's Poneglyphs. Big Mom wonders why Brook does not consider the possibility of his team dying in this mission, but Brook retorts that no one considers the possibility of death in their quests.
In the Mirro-World, Carrot tickles Brulee to force her to guide them to the mirrors in the Whole Cake Chateau. Brulee cannot take it anymore and relents, revealing that although she does not immediately know which mirror leads where, Carrot and Chopper can ask them and they will respond. The duo ask which mirrors lead into the castle, and the mirrors identify themselves. They then ask if any of them have seen any of their comrades, but the mirrors are unable to identify their comrades by name. In order to identify their comrades, Carrot prepares to draw them, claiming herself to be a good artist.
In the Prisoner Library, Luffy's arms start to tear as he gets closer to ripping them off and freeing himself, despite Nami's constant attempts to stop him. Opera then confronts Nami, revealing that Big Mom ordered him to get Lola's location out of her while it is still nighttime. Nami refuses to sell out Lola, and Opera goes to get a crossbow, telling her that he will shoot her every five seconds until she gives an answer. Luffy promises to free himself in five seconds, causing Nami to become even more hysterical, when suddenly Jinbe enters the library. Opera is confused, since Jinbe is not currently allowed in the Chateau, but Jinbe simply apologizes as he hits Opera in the chest with Gosenmaigawara Seiken. With Opera downed, Jinbe prepares to free Luffy and Nami.

On Whole Cake Island, inside the Chateau infirmary, a doctor and a homie guard both comment on Reiju's incredible enhanced healing ability. As they talk, Sanji sneaks in undetected and ties and blindfolds the homie to a chair. Reiju then wakes, noticing Sanji's presence with surprise. She also inspects her injured leg while recalling foggily that she had been caught in a supposed crossfire. Sanji tells her that her memory has been overwritten, and proceeds to tell her what really happened.
In the Prisoner's Library, Jinbe burns the book imprisoning Luffy and Nami, in order to free them. Nami thanks Jinbe, but wonders why he is on the island. Jinbe explains that his Sun Pirates are subordinate to Big Mom's crew. Nami points out the knocked out Charlotte Opera, and comments with concern that his actions constitute rebellion, and Jinbe affirms that there's no going back now. He tells Luffy and Nami that they have to hide somewhere where they won't be found, while Luffy complains about being hungry. Jinbe wonders how Luffy can be worrying about his stomach at a time like this, but Luffy interjects that he didn't ask for any food. Luffy recalls Pudding's words and tells Jinbe to look after Nami, before running off to find and warn Sanji.
In the infirmary, Reiju tells Sanji that she believes his version of events as she had been investigating Pudding due to finding her suspicious. Sanji proceeds to bemoan his belief that his own sacrifice would secure the safety of his crew, as Reiju notes on how Judge underestimated Big Mom before stating that they should not stand in the way of the planned assassinations. A shocked Sanji objects immediately, not wanting Reiju to die, but a touched Reiju responds that Sanji owes her nothing for helping him escape the Germa Kingdom 13 years ago. She urges Sanji to escape Whole Cake Island as soon as possible, and to worry about protecting the Baratie once he is safely away. 
Before Sanji can object further, Reiju divulges to him one of her strongest childhood memories. She recalls a fight between their father and mother, during which their mother refused to undergo the surgery which would transform their soon-to-be-born sons into emotionless machines. While she was ultimately unable to refuse the surgery, she secretly took a drug that counteracted (in part) the effects of the Lineage Factor manipulation surgery. The drug led to a sudden deterioration in her health, and did nothing to prevent the surgery's successful modification of Ichiji, Niji and Yonji. However, the scientists monitoring the Vinsmoke brothers began observing behaviors in Sanji that revealed that his modification had been unsuccessful. While Judge blamed Sanji for the drug's success, Sora cherished Sanji's displays of kindness, crying in happiness as she told Reiju and Eponi about Sanji's actions. After listening, a horrified Sanji begins to state that their mother's death was his fault, but Reiju overrides him and tells him that their mother was happy from the bottom of her heart, and did not regret a thing. Reiju continues by stating that Sanji cannot be a failure, and that he is in fact kinder than anyone, leaving Sanji speechless.
On the second floor of the Chateau, Luffy has taken hold of one of Big Mom's subordinates and is strangling him, trying to elicit Sanji's whereabouts. At the same time, in the Hall of Treasures, Charlotte Smoothie learns of Jinbe's rebellion and orders all homies and soldiers to seal off the fourth floor. Smoothie warns the soldiers not to inform Big Mom of the chaos inside the Chateau, and gives them permission to kill the rebels if necessary. 
Back inside the infirmary, Reiju encourages Sanji to forget about Germa and leave. She reflects that Germa is nothing but a war machine that the world can do without, and that the Vinsmokes are a family of murderers that deserve death. Sanji continues his objections to Reiju's proposed self-sacrifice, but Reiju explains that she cannot disobey their father's commands. With Luffy fast approaching and leaving a trail of destruction behind him, Reiju states that she believes the Baratie is under no threat from Big Mom and (further) reveals that Sanji's handcuffs are fakes she had switched out with the real pair. Reiju concludes by telling Sanji forcefully to consider what was most important in his life; in particular, she emphasizes that he will never again meet people as amazing the ones he has now, for as long as he lives.

After he is cut in half, a giant yolk flies out of Baron Tamago's body. To his surprise, the seemingly victorious Pedro watches as the yolk reforms into a different version of Tamago, who is covered in yellow, possesses a chicken beak and wings, and wields two daggers. The Big Mom Pirates around them cheer on as Tamago's new form, Viscount Hiyoko, attacks Pedro while making clucking noises. Hiyoko is an improved swordfighter, and he barrages Pedro with rapid attacks that the jaguar mink has trouble keeping up with them. Hiyoko goes so fast that he becomes a whirlwind of motion, and manages to knock Pedro's sword and send it flying a good distance away. Pedro races to his sword, and Hiyoko rapidly pursues him, but Pedro retrieves it in the nick of time and cuts Hiyoko in half, sending the yolk out of his body once again. Hiyoko's crewmates cheer at the impending evolution, revealing that he will turn into Count Niwatori with the power of the Tama Tama no Mi, which allows him to evolve each time he is destroyed. They claim Niwatori to be a "true knight" who will surely overpower Pedro. However, Pedro decides to attack him in the midst of the evolution, much to the shock of the Big Mom Pirates. They charge at him, but he pulls out a string of bombs that he promptly lights, sending them fleeing in fear. Pedro then sets off a massive explosion that sends the pirates and Count Niwatori flying, and seemingly engulfs himself.
In the Room of Treasure, Brook is near his limit against Big Mom, but mounts a charge in order to complete his task. Big Mom has Zeus and Prometheus attack him, but Brook withstands their lightning and fire as he spins past them in a fiery blaze and strikes Big Mom with his sword. However, to his shock, his attack has only pressed Big Mom's skin a little bit without penetrating it. Big Mom then retaliates by smacking him into the ground, and Brook is left unable to get up. However, as Zeus and Prometheus attack him some more, he unleashes an attack while lying down, which manages to cut Prometheus despite the homie being made of fire. Big Mom then finishes off Brook by smashing him into the wall, and as she captures him, Smoothie hears about Luffy rampaging through the castle as she stands outside the room. Knowing that Big Mom would not react kindly to more events threatening the wedding tomorrow, and that she might take it out on them, Smoothie orders her subordinates to bar off the entrance to the fourth level from all the levels below, and to deal with the problem without telling Big Mom.
Inside the room, Brook is stripped, and the Chess Soldiers do not find any stolen objects in his clothes. This lightens Big Mom's mood around Brook as she coddles him as her new pet, and she commends him for overpowering her Chess Soldiers. However, she reveals that he was unable to overpower her special homies, Zeus, Prometheus, and Napoleon, because they were made with pieces of her own soul. She is relieved that he was not trying to steal the Poneglyphs, revealing that Gol D. Roger managed to sneak in and read them with his ability to hear the Voice of All Things, allowing him to reach Laugh Tale. She planned to become the next Pirate King, as she now had a key to be able to hear the Voice of All Things as well. Pudding then enters the room, and Big Mom asks her if she has awakened her third eye's ability yet. The exasperated Pudding states that it may be impossible due to her being a half-breed, and Big Mom says that the third eye is just an ugly feature on her if it cannot be useful. Brook is surprised to hear of Pudding's third eye, and the two of them spot and recognize each other. Pudding, surprised that Brook got here, asks Big Mom if they can talk privately in her quarters.
Meanwhile, Luffy continues fighting his way through the Whole Cake Chateau to get to Sanji. He runs into Charlotte Cadenza, who is intent on stopping him. Recognizing Cadenza as one of the two fighters who defeated him in the battle outside Sweet City, Luffy attacks him, but Cadenza manages to stand his ground with his Busoshoku Haki. However, when Cadenza attacks, Luffy gets behind him and puts him in a chokehold, ordering the pirate to tell him where Sanji is. However, Cadenza refuses to say, causing him to pass out. Meanwhile, Reiju pleads with Sanji to leave the infirmary, saying that the Germa are nothing but warmongers trying to reclaim the past and they deserve to be erased from history. Even though she has this view, she accepts her death as well, since she was programmed to be forced to obey her father's commands and was guilty of partaking in the Germa's actions. However, she wants Sanji to live on with his conscience and return to his home with the Straw Hats. Reiju believes that since Big Mom wants Germa's technology, it is unlikely she will target Zeff. With Sanji still not leaving, Reiju then reveals that she replaced the exploding cuffs on his wrists with fakes, which will allow him to return to Luffy without fear of repercussions. As Luffy fights several Big Mom Pirates who came to attack him after Cadenza's defeat, Sanji gains his resolve.

In the aftermath of Pedro's explosion in the Chateau courtyard, Count Niwatori gets up, having only received minor injuries. After seeing the remains of the explosion, with no traces of Pedro to be found, Niwatori orders his subordinates to get the wounded to medical attention and put out the fires in the courtyard. Pedro is alive and with Chopper and Carrot in the Mirro-World. He recalls how the two of them found him through a mirror during his battle, and he immediately hatched a plan to end the fight by detonating the dynamite. Once he did it, he quickly ran into the mirror right before the explosion reached him. Chopper, Carrot, Pedro, and the captive Brulee then ride on Diesel's cart as they look for their remaining teammates, knowing Luffy and Nami were captured. Carrot shows the mirrors her drawing of her teammates, but to Pedro's shock, they are all drawn as bishonen. However, the mirrors recognize the drawings and reveal that they have seen Nami with Jinbe, and Chopper is surprised to hear Jinbe's name. On the first floor of the Chateau, Nami and Jinbe run away from a horde of Big Mom Pirates. The duo quickly find themselves surrounded, and Nami shocks some of the horde with a lightning blast, but unwittingly hits Chopper after he comes out of a nearby mirror. Nami and Jinbe then see Carrot through the mirror, and she tells them to get inside, much to their astonishment.
Meanwhile, Luffy keeps fighting past the Big Mom Pirates as he advances to the third floor where Sanji is, but he is then confronted by Cabaletta. Luffy initially mistakes Cabaletta for his quintuplet brother Cadenza, but Cabaletta corrects him as he prepares to avenge Cadenza's defeat. Saying that unlike Cadenza, he does not just boast physical strength, Cabaletta moves around in the blink of an eye, attempting to hit Luffy with Busoshoku Haki-imbued arms before Luffy can react. The two of them rapidly punch at each other, but end up in a stalemate. Luffy then shows weakness as his stomach growls from his extreme hunger, allowing Cabaletta to put him in a headlock. With Luffy being unable to escape, Cabaletta tells him that Sanji betrayed him and asks if Luffy really wants to rescue him. Cabaletta's statement about Sanji makes Luffy very angry, allowing him to break out of the headlock and grab Cabaletta's hair, preventing him from moving. Luffy then hits Cabaletta into a wall with Hawk Rifle, defeating him. He immediately continues his search for Sanji, and the rest of the Big Mom Pirates are reluctant to keep chasing him, but do so anyway.
Luffy continues looking around through the third floor when he is suddenly pulled into the infirmary by Reiju, who locks the door to prevent his pursuers from getting in. Luffy tells Reiju that he needs to warn Sanji about Pudding's deception, but Reiju reveals that Sanji found out about it just a little while ago. She also says that she told him to flee the island, but he is concerned about the threat of Zeff and the Baratie being held hostage. Luffy proclaims that he will go to defend the Baratie if they are in trouble, and with his hunger strike for Sanji on his mind and knowing that he did everything to help his cook, Luffy leaves the Chateau by jumping out the window. He lands on top of someone's house and destroys it. He struggles to move due to his hunger as he heads back to the spot where he promised to wait for Sanji, but Luffy is confronted by Chess soldiers along the way. Back in the Chateau, however, Sanji decides not to leave and accepts his fate, saying he could not go back after what he had done to his crewmates.

Having escaped the prison library, Jinbe and Nami join Chopper and Carrot in the Mirro-World Dimension. Jinbe is questioned about deserting the Big Mom Pirates and not spinning Big Mom's roulette wheel. Pedro explains that the roulette wheel is intentionally designed to kill all those who leave Big Mom's crew. They ride on Diesel's back in search of the others.
Meanwhile, having been defeated by Big Mom, Brook is hung on a thread by Big Mom and held in the throne room. Pudding enters and reveals her true nature to Brook. Pudding and Big Mom discuss the plan to assassinate the entire Vinsmoke Family in order to acquire Germa 66's clone army. Brook also discovers Pudding's third eye.
Members of the Big Mom Pirates, including Mont-d'Or, Tamago, Galette, Opera and Amande, gather at the meeting room to discuss the intruders that have entered Whole Cake Island. They first find that Brook had been captured by Big Mom, deducing that he is no longer a threat. However, they mistakenly believe that Pedro killed himself with the dynamite vest, and Chopper and Carrot had been captured by Brulee. To avoid embarrassment, Opera lies about Luffy and Nami's escape, stating that they were burned alive by the fire. Deducing that all intruders have been caught or killed, Mont-d'Or dismisses the meeting, but orders soldiers to watch Opera out of suspicion.
Meanwhile, Luffy is confronted outside by Chess soldiers, a bearded fighter, and a dagger thrower. Weakened by hunger, Luffy struggles to fight off the enemies. Despite this, Luffy crushes the chess soldiers, defeats the bearded fighter with Gomu Gomu no: Jet Pistol, and defeats the dagger thrower with Gomu Gomu no: Rocket.
Inside the castle, Sanji prepares a basket originally for Pudding, unknowingly making the favorite foods of each of the Straw Hats. He decides that he plans to go to the wedding and be killed along with his family, so that the Straw Hats could leave Whole Cake Island safely. Bobbin appears and takes Sanji's food. In response, Sanji violently kicks Bobbin into the ground before fleeing as he had attracted attention of authorities.

In the Whole Cake Chateau, a group of Big Mom Pirates encounter Bobbin recovering from being kicked into the wall by Sanji. They express concern over the situation, but Bobbin, not wishing for anyone else to get involved, bobs his head from side to side to make them fall asleep. After taking out his crewmates, Bobbin races after Sanji to deal with the Straw Hat himself, and Sanji continues running through the Chateau.
In the Mirro-World, Chopper, Carrot, Nami, Jinbe, and Pedro ask the mirrors for information about Luffy, Sanji, and Brook's whereabouts, but they are initially unsuccessful. They then take notice of a very large mirror up ahead, and Brulee gets excited about it. Pedro forces Diesel to pull their cart faster, even though Diesel cannot move fast due to the number of people he is pulling. The group reaches the mirror and spots Brook on the other side, but they then realize in shock that he is being held by a sleeping Big Mom. They try to call out to Brook without waking up Big Mom, but are unsuccessful, and Brulee and Diesel call out to Big Mom, forcing the Sanji Retrieval Team to bind and gag them. While she sleeps, Big Mom notices a fly, and unsuccessfully tries to smash it. After the fly passes by again, Zeus, Prometheus, and Napoleon wake up and obliterate it, and the Sanji Retrieval Team is struck with fear by the amount of force they used.
The team prepares to venture into the room to rescue Brook regardless, and Jinbe gets a skeleton from an execution room to stand in for Brook while Pedro collects seaweed from a kitchen to serve as the fake Brook's afro. After putting Brulee into the mirror to make it a portal, Chopper makes the first attempt to go in and replace Brook with the dummy. He almost trips, but manages to right himself. He then gets the urge to sneeze, and manages to quell it, but not for long as he sneezes. Big Mom then raises her hand to smash him, forcing him to run back into the Mirro-World. Carrot then goes in with the dummy, and jumps up to Big Mom's bed. However, Big Mom's snot bubble reaches all the way to Brook when she exhales, and so Carrot waits for her to inhale before she goes to Brook. She is unable to wake Brook up before Big Mom's snot bubble reaches her, and leaps onto the floor below. This partially wakes Zeus up, and Carrot attempts to imitate a stuffed bunny. This somehow works, Zeus goes back to sleep, and Carrot heads back to the bed. However, she kicks a pebble into another rock, and Zeus thinks that the fly is back and goes into attack mode. Carrot runs back into the Mirro-World as the cloud homie attacks, and Pedro decides to try himself. He sneaks all the way up to Big Mom's bed, and as he goes up to Brook, he notices Big Mom moving, but it is just her tossing and turning. He imagines rescuing Brook perfectly and being celebrated by his teammates, but Big Mom turns onto him before he can act, forcing him to run back into Mirro-World. Big Mom's tossing and turning causes Brook to fall off the bed, and Nami runs straight to her crewmate. She wakes Brook up, but Brook screams after seeing his dummy, which wakes Big Mom up. Thinking the fly is still there, Big Mom grabs Prometheus and throws it onto the ground where Nami and Brook are. However, Jinbe runs into the room and grabs Nami and Brook, bringing them into the Mirro-World right as Prometheus hits the floor and explodes. Big Mom and her special homies fall back asleep, and the Sanji Retrieval Team celebrates their success in retrieving Brook.
Sanji has made it out to Sweet City, and he is forced to shoo away a dog that attempts to steal his bento basket. Elsewhere, Luffy approaches the outskirts where he had fought the enraged army, but is attacked by Charlotte Counter. He tries to attack Counter, but can only muster basic attacks and none of them are effective. Counter easily overpowers Luffy, jumping up into the air and hitting him into the ground with two massive fists clad in Haki. Starving and nearly powerless, Luffy does not get up, and Counter stomps him into the ground once again.

Despite receiving brutal punches from Charlotte Counter, Luffy keeps getting up and fighting back. Counter continues to overpower him and beat him relentlessly, but the starving Luffy still does not relent. After slamming Luffy into the ground, Counter prepares to unleash a finishing blow as he covers his forearm in Busoshoku Haki. Luffy receives this punch, but to Counter's surprise, he manages to stand his ground and punch Counter in the face as well. However, Luffy's punch has little impact and Counter quickly retaliates.
In the Mirro-World, Brook is still shocked over what just happened to him. Pedro apologizes for putting him in a dangerous situation where he ended up in Big Mom's clutches, but Brook simply responds by opening his skull and taking out the copies of Big Mom's Poneglyphs. He states that he knew he had to complete this mission now, as they would otherwise have to start a war with the Big Mom Pirates if they wanted to try again. The Sanji Retrieval Team is absolutely astounded that Brook managed to get into Big Mom's most tightly guarded room and emerge with the printings. They congratulate him, with Brulee and Diesel being shocked to learn of Brook's actions. With one of their objectives completed, the Sanji Retrieval Team prepares to complete their other goal of finding Sanji. However, none of the mirrors around them see Sanji, and he is not in his room.
Nami then suspects that Sanji is outside in the field where he fought with Luffy, and the mention of their fight shocks Chopper. Jinbe understands why a fight might have happened, knowing that Sanji likely came to reunite with his family for a reason. However, he states that they should find Sanji quickly, as there is a plot going on that will unleash chaos during the wedding tomorrow. He reveals that Pekoms was caught up in this scheme, causing him to be shot by Bege, although he was saved from death in the ocean by Jinbe and his crew. Out in Sweet City, Bobbin pursues Sanji with malicious intent, but a mysterious gunman comes and shoots him from the shadows. Bobbin is only able to walk a little farther before collapsing, and he curses his mysterious attackers, of which there are three. Inside the Whole Cake Chateau, the bar girls serving the Vinsmoke Family all pass out, much to the disdain of Judge and his sons who are still drinking. Judge decides to call off their drinking for the night, planning to throw another party the next night after the wedding. The Vinsmoke men look forward to reconquering the North Blue with the Big Mom Pirates' support, and note how their failure Sanji is actually helping them achieve this goal. Outside their room, some chess soldiers are ordered to keep watch and make sure none of the Vinsmokes leave during the night as they prepare for the next day's wedding.
Sanji reaches the outskirts of Sweet City, and searches for Luffy among the fallen combatants of Big Mom's enraged army. After a long search, he remembers how Luffy threatened to starve to death as he waited in this spot for Sanji's cooking. Sanji shouts for Luffy before falling into despair. However, he hears the sound of a grumbling stomach, and locates the unconscious Luffy leaning against the corpse of Kingbaum.

Before Sanji found Luffy, it is recounted how Bobbin attempted to steal the food from his bento box, causing him to kick Bobbin and run away. As Sanji headed to the outskirts of Sweet City, Luffy fought against Charlotte Counter. Counter initially managed to easily overpower Luffy, but Luffy eventually managed to find the strength and resolve to stand up and counter Counter's strikes. The two traded punches, and Luffy ultimately collapsed, but was able to deal enough blows to Counter's head to make him fall unconscious before he could deal the finishing blow. The barely conscious Luffy then made his way toward the spot where he promised to wait for Sanji, dragging himself all the way to Kingbaum's corpse with his last ounce of his strength. After reaching the outskirts of Sweet City, Sanji initially had difficulty finding Luffy among the many fallen Big Mom Pirates, but finally located him by his growling stomach and approached him.
In the present, Luffy is unconscious as Sanji approaches him, but Luffy smells the bento Sanji brought and opens his eyes. Luffy is happy to see Sanji, but Sanji treats him coldly as he hands him the bento basket. Although the bento is ruined because it was dropped and soaked in the rain, Luffy eats it and proclaims it to be delicious. He notes that the bento contains the favorite foods of the whole crew, and says that Sanji should come back and make it for all of them, but Sanji states that he is not coming back. He lists three reasons for not doing so: him attacking Luffy, Zeff and the Baratie being held hostage to deter him from escaping, and his desire to save his family from being assassinated at the wedding despite them only ever being cruel to him. However, Luffy gets angry at the insincerity of the statement and punches Sanji into Kingbaum's corpse. As Sanji recovers, Luffy tells him to say how he really feels. Sanji then has memories of making food for the crew. He once got mad at Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper for sneaking food into their mouths, but the crew only had fun as they clamored for more of his cooking. In the present, Sanji starts to weep and after a big effort, he manages to confess to Luffy that he wants to return to the Sunny and the crew, though he cannot bring himself to abandon his family. In response, Luffy smiles and promises to help Sanji crash the wedding tomorrow. As the two reconcile, the storm dies down as dawn breaks.
In Sweet City, the second son of the Charlotte Family and one of the Big Mom Pirates' Three Sweet Commanders Charlotte Katakuri approaches the Whole Cake Chateau with a henchman. The henchman offers to contact someone to open the gates, but Katakuri replies that there is no need, as they will open soon. Katakuri's words quickly prove to be accurate as the gates soon open, and the duo enters the Chateau. There are five hours and 30 minutes left before Big Mom's Tea Party and the wedding of Sanji and Pudding begins.

In the Mirro-World, Chopper finds a shard of a mirror that had been broken previously. With this shard, he is able to communicate with Luffy, who found the other shard near Kingbaum's body. They update each other on the situation, and plan to crash the upcoming tea party and wedding.
At Big Mom's castle, Charlotte Daifuku, another officer of the Big Mom Pirates, appears at the gate. Chess soldiers offer to open the door, but Daifuku uses his Devil Fruit ability to summon a genie to pry the gate open.
Meanwhile, back in the Mirro-World, Jinbe tells more about Capone Bege's past. Bege was the leader of one of the five mafia groups in West Blue. He gained notoriety for his method of attacking other mafia groups; he would assassinate the leaders of each group and steal their valuables, leaving the rest of the group intact. He would grow bored of attacking on land and formed the Fire Tank Pirates, using the same methods to attack various pirate crews until he entered the Worst Generation. To gain even more influence, he became affiliated with the Big Mom Pirates, and he would be in charge of security during the upcoming tea party.
Jinbe reveals, to everyone's shock, that Bege intends to assassinate Big Mom. Bege previously shot Pekoms because he refused to join his plot. However, Jinbe confirms that Pekoms was saved by the Sun Pirates, and that he is indeed alive. 
Although Luffy was initially hostile to Bege, Jinbe instead advises Luffy to form an alliance with him to take down the Emperor.

The Big Mom Pirates's head chef Streusen leads several other cooks in making the wedding cake for the upcoming wedding, singing a song connecting the cooking to life in the process. At the eastern inlet of Whole Cake Island, Pekoms is kept under the watch of the Sun Pirates. Aladine assures him that Jinbe has reported Bege's treachery to Big Mom, and his crewmates readily back him up, but this only causes Pekoms to grow suspicious, and the Sun Pirates grow worried as he resists their lies.
Luffy and Sanji make their way to the Fire Tank Pirates' hideout, where they are greeted by Vito, who is excited to see Sanji. Chopper, who looks like he has come out of the bath, comes out and reunites with his crewmates, and Luffy and Sanji are confused about his appearance. Chopper confirms that he has been bathing, which Luffy does not like as he wants to meet with Bege quickly. However, Vito reveals that Bege will not meet with them until they are clean, and the scuffed-up Luffy and Sanji realize that they will have to bathe.
In the women's bath, Nami and Carrot talk to Chiffon while they bathe. Nami tells her about her experiences with her sister Lola, and wonders about Big Mom telling her in rage about a time that Lola ran away from her arranged marriage. Chiffon reveals that no giants live on Totto Land because they have a bad relationship with Big Mom, but this nearly changed when Loki, the prince of Elbaf, fell in love with Lola at first sight and proposed to her. However, after Lola refused to marry him and ran away, Big Mom attempted to use Chiffon as a substitute, but the giants quickly realized the deception and their relations with Big Mom only grew worse. Ever since, Big Mom has given up on trying to mend relations with the giants and has focused instead on turning people into giants, which she had commissioned Caesar Clown to work on. Big Mom hated Lola for ruining her efforts toward reconciliation, and this hatred extended to Chiffon as well for looking exactly like Lola. This resulted in Chiffon being abused every time Big Mom saw her, and with her frequent wounds still on her mind, Chiffon has no problem with Bege's plan to assassinate her mother. She notes that Lola probably does not even know Big Mom wants to kill her because of her happy-go-lucky personality.
Elsewhere, after bathing, Luffy and Brook get some milk from the fridge to heal their injuries despite the Fire Tank Pirate guard's disapproval. To his shock, Luffy regains his lost tooth and Brook's head injuries heal thanks to the milk. With everyone clean, the Sanji Retrieval Team picks out new outfits, with Luffy initially donning the costume of the robot from Sora, Warrior of the Sea. Sanji leaves the room and runs into Nami, and as she passes by him, she tells him that she will make him work hard for her when he rejoins them, but this just makes him ecstatic. Brulee and Diesel have bathed as well, and they sit tied up in the hallway. Brulee gets angry at Chiffon for going against her family, but Chiffon states that Bege and Pez are her family now and Lola's life is in danger. The Sanji Retrieval Team makes their way to the meeting room, and Luffy looks around for Bege. Bege then arrives and prepares to see whether or not this potential alliance can work out.
In Sweet City, Big Mom's fourth son Charlotte Oven heads to the Whole Cake Chateau. The liquid on the ground sizzles when he steps in it, and when the gatekeepers prepare to open the entrance for him, he says there is no need as he steps into the door and melts it, allowing him to enter. The tea party is set to begin in three hours and 30 minutes.

The Sanji Retrieval Team meets with the Fire Tank Pirates, and before any words are exchanged, Luffy helps himself to food from a bin on the table. Bege begins by saying that he considers the Straw Hats to be pests, and wonders why he should not kill them. Sanji points out that killing him would prevent the wedding and ruin Bege's plot, which Bege concedes to. Luffy sits in silence for a while before he finally recognizes Caesar Clown, who has slicked up his hair and is sitting with the Fire Tank Pirates.
Caesar gets scared when Luffy recognizes him, remembering how he got to be here. He was sitting around and drinking inside Big Mom's factory, having given up on making a gigantification serum for her. Suddenly, Bege and the Fire Tank Pirates broke into the lab. Bege had taken the position of guarding Caesar, and offered him a chance to escape and work for him, coercing Caesar with the scientist's disembodied heart. Caesar was brought to work on a weapon, and was appalled when Vito informed him the Straw Hats would be coming to meet them. This caused him to slightly change his appearance, and in the present he says he is "Gangster" Gastino, but his disguise fools no one but Luffy and Chopper. After this exchange, Bege asks if Luffy wants to form an alliance or not. In response, Luffy tries to punch Bege for shooting Pekoms. Gotti and the Fire Tank Pirates immediately become hostile, and Jinbe tries blocking Luffy's punch, warning him strongly against fighting. However, Bege sits in anticipation of the attack and Jinbe is unable to stop Luffy as Bege intercepts the punch with Caesar's heart and he and Luffy scuffle briefly.
In another area of Whole Cake Island, the people there look on as Big Mom's wedding guests, the emperors of the Underworld, arrive and disembark from their ships. Back in Bege's hideout, the fighting has ended as the Sanji Retrieval Team inquires as to how Big Mom can be assassinated. Bege says that they will have a five-second window to kill her, but it will not come easily, and any slip-up will cause them to be overwhelmed by Big Mom's top crew members. However, they will be able to do it with the help of Caesar. Caesar gets mad when he hears Bege using his real name, and warns him to keep his agreement to return his heart after the assassination, or else he will kill Pez. Chiffon simply asserts that Bege will keep his promise, and as the Straw Hats laugh at him, Caesar goes to show them his new invention. He unveils the KX Launcher, which on detonation will inject a very deadly substance into the body and is guaranteed to kill anyone upon penetrating their skin.
However, Bege states that even this weapon cannot penetrate Big Mom's tough skin, which has not been wounded by bullets, cannonballs, or sinking ships. He reveals, though, that Big Mom keeps a portrait of a mysterious disappeared woman known as Mother Carmel and puts it across from her during every tea party. During the previous one, a servant accidentally knocked it off the table and slightly damaged it, which caused Big Mom to go into a breakdown and emit a shriek that paralyzed everyone. She also unleashed her Haoshoku Haki, but when she fell to her knees during this, she noticeably scraped them. Thus, the plan to kill her during the wedding ceremony will center around destroying the portrait. The alliance will have earplugs to protect themselves from the shriek, and the interval during Big Mom's breakdown will give them the opportunity to shoot her with the KX Launchers. However, the portrait will not be reached easily, and so Bege asks Luffy to cause a distraction and disrupt the wedding. Despite his crew's protests, Luffy agrees to this. Three hours remain until the wedding.

The Charlotte arrive at Sanji's room, with the servant panicking because Sanji is not present. However, when Mont-d'Or and Galette open the door, Sanji is there and questions the racket. Mont-d'Or questioned Sanji about his whereabouts, as the latter confirms he was and the Big Mom Pirate Officer looks to the servant confirm if Sanji was really there. The servant nervously assured him that Sanji had been in his room the whole time. Mont-d'Or is skeptical and glares at him, until Sanji tells him he has to prepare for the wedding. 
Sanji tries to close the door but Mont-d'Or stops him, as he has something to tell Sanji. Exasperated, Sanji asks what it is and Mont-d'Or tells him Straw Hat died to test his reaction. Sanji feigns shock, as Mont-d'Or states he is guessing Luffy is alive and plotting with Sanji who shrugs it off because he is a Germa Prince marrying Pudding.

As Sanji walks down the hall in the Whole Cake Chateau, he remembers overhearing Pudding reveal to Reiju the Big Mom Pirates' plan to assassinate the Vinsmoke Family. However, when he enters the waiting room and sees Pudding in her wedding dress, he is immediately consumed by lust, to his horror. Meanwhile, the rest of the Vinsmoke Family approaches the gates to the wedding venue, but they are stopped by the Fire Tank Pirates, who tell them that they will need to go through a body check. The Vinsmokes reluctantly hand in their weapons upon demand, but are taken aback when they are told to also hand in their Raid Suits. Ichiji, Niji, and Yonji consider forcing their way through the security, and Niji and Bege nearly clash, but Judge stops them. He decides to comply with the Big Mom Pirates' wishes, and Bege welcomes them to the Tea Party. Inside Bege's body, the Straw Hats go over the wedding venue map to plan their attack, but Luffy is running around with a net. He says he is ready, assuring his crewmates that everything will turn out alright.
Outside the Whole Cake Chateau, Big Mom's Tea Party guests arrive just in time by a pig-drawn carriage. Out of the carriage come the Emperors of the Underworld: Du Feld, Stussy, Drug Peclo, Morgans, Giberson, and Umit. The emperors are greeted by adoring crowds as they banter amongst themselves, with Du Feld and Drug Peclo exchanging insults and Morgans being excited to cover Germa 66, who is a big part of his newspaper the World Economic Journal. Perospero greets the guests, and creates a candy escalator with his Devil Fruit power to take them up to the venue. He offers some children lollipops, saying they can lick the escalator too in a few minutes, before he too leaves for the wedding. At the venue, the tea party celebration gets into motion as the emperors arrive. Smoothie greets them and offers them drinks, and she squeezes liquid out of a giraffe.
Outside, an organ trader named Jigra tries to get past the Fire Tank Pirates' security without going through a body check, saying that he was invited to the previous tea party, but went to his mother's funeral instead. However, as he reveals that Big Mom sent him his hospitalized father's head in a box, he is suddenly shot through the head by a jelly bean. Bege and his crew look up to see Charlotte Katakuri sitting on the gate wall above them and flicking another jellybean with his finger; Bege wants to know why he killed a wedding guest. Katakuri reveals that Jigra was going to attempt to get revenge for his father and shoot down two of Bege's crewmates, which unnerves Bege, as he knows that Katakuri will be one of their biggest obstacles in the assassination plan due to his Kenbunshoku Haki being advanced enough to let him see a little bit into the future. Katakuri then reveals that 100 raiders are coming, and the Organ Dealing Assassination Group rushes onto the scene. Cursing Jigra for not waiting for them, they begin to attack, and Katakuri foresees the Fire Tank Pirates being overwhelmed by them as the organ dealers withstand their volleys of bullets. Once this happens, Katakuri shoots one of the organ dealers with a jellybean, and his brothers Daifuku and Oven leap out of the venue. The organ traders look forward to harvesting the Big Mom Pirates' organs, and one of them wraps chains around Oven, but Oven heats up his body and melts the chains as he hits one of the dealers with a hot fist and melts the weapons of everyone nearby. Fearing the brothers' power, the organ dealers begin to escape, but Daifuku scoffs as he summons a massive genie-like figure that deals a massive blow powerful enough to take them out, and the organ dealers are left in awe, calling the brothers "monsters".
In the Seducing Woods, meanwhile, Luffy chases after several animals with his net. He initially loses sight of them, but two monkeys fall out of a tree when their branch breaks, and Luffy excitedly moves to capture them. Meanwhile, the tea party guests brace for Big Mom's arrival, and she steps into the venue, eagerly ready for the festivities. However, both she and Sanji know the malice that is about to take place.

Inside the Whole Cake Chateau, Sanji and Pudding rehearse their vows with a priest. The priest states that the marriage will be sealed with a kiss, and Sanji notes that this will be when Pudding attempts to shoot him. However, when Pudding talks to him, he is quickly taken aback by her beauty and struggles to remind himself of who she truly is.
Outside the wedding venue, Bege checks on the Straw Hats' status, but finds Luffy leaning out of his body to look around. Luffy opens up the doors in Bege's body and jumps across them before being punched and taken back by Nami, and Bege remarks that he maybe should have killed them. Vito then calls out from atop the venue wall, remarking in excitement that Morgans is talking to Judge. He then reveals that Katakuri, Smoothie, Perospero, Compote, Daifuku, and Oven of the Charlotte Family are all in attendance, noting their strength and remarking that they will not be good enemies to have. The gate homie nearby is taken aback to hear that, and Bege tells Vito and Gotti to go check downstairs. Inside the Whole Cake Chateau, two of the Fire Tank Pirates are disguised as cooks and report to Bege that the cooks are enjoying a banquet after having made the wedding cake. With all passages and signals to the wedding venue closed off, the Fire Tank Pirates go off to complete their next task. However, they are stopped by a drunk cook, who notes that he does not recognize them. However, the cook is struck down by Gotti as he and Vito arrive.
Inside the wedding venue, some Chess Soldiers carry the portrait of Mother Carmel and place it on the table in front of Big Mom. She is joyful to see it, but no one else knows who Carmel is. When one person asks how she is related to Big Mom, Big Mom shouts at him to not intrude on her memories as she releases her Haoshoku Haki and knocks him out. Her guests then present her with gifts that they acquired from exotic locations, and Morgans asks about the report of her acquiring a great undersea treasure. Big Mom confirms this, revealing the Tamatebako from Fish-Man Island, which she plans to open during the feast after Pudding's wedding. Outside, Bege's men return to him with their mission completed, and Bege tells Caesar to come out of his body with the mirror. Caesar does so, and Bege briefs him on his role, telling him that he will be flying the mirror into the venue once they assassinate Big Mom so they can escape. At this point, the gate homie realizes that the Fire Tank Pirates are plotting something, but her face is then immediately sliced off by Gotti. Bege then goes inside his body to check on the Straw Hats, only to find everyone except Jinbe sleeping. Jinbe says that they have gone a while without sleep, and promises to wake them up ten minutes before the wedding starts. With everything ready, Bege has his subordinates enter his body and goes into the venue, saying that there is no turning back now.
Back in Sanji and Pudding's room, Sanji attempts to make conversation with Pudding, trying to act nervous about the upcoming affair. Pudding answers sweetly, making him lovestruck and causing him to struggle to remember her true nature. He asks if Pudding does not want to be kissed on the mouth, and Pudding says that she does, which causes him to get a nosebleed that makes him rocket around the room and stains his suit in blood. Pudding acts concerned, but is really extremely appalled and angered by Sanji's display of foolishness. Sanji is treated, and he and Pudding prepare to be brought out to the wedding venue, with Pudding gleefully anticipating her planned assassination. In the wedding venue, the Charlotte Family talks with the Vinsmoke Family about the imminent union between their two families, and Big Mom and Judge make a toast. Bege talks with Perospero, and they talk about preparing for the upcoming event. Inside Bege's body, everyone except Luffy is awake and ready to go as Sanji and Pudding arrive on a teacup carried by Zeus. Glitter and confetti floats through the air as the wedding guests celebrate, and Sanji acts very lovestruck, which causes Bege to think he is just acting well. With the bride and groom nearing the altar, the clock strikes 12 and the wedding has officially begun.

Inside Bege's body, Jinbe cannot wake Luffy up despite punching him multiple times. With barely any time left until the ceremony and the gunshot, Nami says that since Luffy was running around before he fell asleep, he will need meat to wake him up, and some Fire Tank Pirates rush to get some. Outside in the wedding venue, Streusen and his cooks sing before Streusen plunges his sword into the ground, causing it to break and the massive wedding cake to rise up. Big Mom compliments Streusen on the cake, and Sanji and Pudding are brought to the altar on top of it. As they draw closer to it, Pudding embraces Sanji and feigns nervous excitement while Sanji is lustfully ecstatic, although internally Pudding expresses her contempt with Sanji and is eager to murder him while Sanji keeps his mind on Pudding's true intentions. The two of them reach the altar and stand in front of the priest, and Big Mom excitedly anticipates the imminent assassination of the Vinsmokes. Judge, Ichiji, Niji, and Yonji are completely unaware of what is about to happen, with Yonji wishing he could have married Pudding before Niji reminds him that doing so would enslave him to the Charlotte Family. Reiju looks around at the powerful Big Mom Pirates surrounding them and anticipates her family's death, having no desire for salvation but hoping that Sanji can escape.
Inside Bege's body, Luffy is given a lot of meat and gorges on it, but Jinbe quickly pulls him away with the gunshot being imminent. Outside, after the priest recites the vows, he calls for Pudding's veil to be lifted up so she and Sanji can perform the kiss of oath and seal their marriage. Sanji lifts up the veil, and anticipation is high as Pudding readies her gun and shows Sanji her third eye. Sanji is shocked as expected, but before Pudding can shoot him, he compliments her third eye and calls it beautiful. This stuns Pudding, who begins to break down as she remembers her painful childhood where other children bullied her for it. Even Big Mom had openly remarked on its ugliness and told her to grow bangs over it. Pudding is unable to contain this sudden rush of emotion and collapses to her knees, shocking and angering her family and crew.
Big Mom then signals for the priest to shoot Sanji, but Katakuri foresees the priest's shot missing and so attempts to shoot Sanji himself. However, Sanji ends up dodging Katakuri's flicked jellybean and it hits the priest instead, whose gun goes off as he falls backwards. The Sanji Retrieval Team, being pulled by Diesel through the Mirro-World, hears the gunshot and Luffy gets excited to make his entrance. Outside, the wedding venue instantly becomes extremely volatile and uneasy after Katakuri's actions, and Katakuri stands in front of Big Mom as he anticipates something happening that he cannot stop. A confused and angry Big Mom questions his actions, but then multiple duplicates of Luffy burst out of the wedding cake, utterly destroying it and causing the wedding guests to run away in a panic. The Big Mom Pirates stand utterly shocked, and Big Mom quickly becomes enraged to see Luffy.

About three and a half hours ago, Luffy had requested for Bege to put a mirror inside the cake for him to enter the wedding through. Bege initially resisted, but Luffy insisted on entering in a fun way before noting that Brulee once turned animals into duplicates of his crewmates, intending on using that to his advantage. In the present, multiple duplicates of Luffy create chaos across the wedding venue, and Morgans excitedly takes pictures of the notorious pirate's entrance. The wedding cake starts to collapse, and Sanji uses Sky Walk to fly a weeping Pudding away. Smoothie confronts Mont-d'Or, having been led to believe by Opera that Luffy had been killed. Mont-d'Or curses Opera for lying to protect himself, and nearby, Big Mom walks toward her collapsing cake furious and on the verge of a breakdown. Streusen attempts to stop her, but her eyes change color as she orders three cooks to bring her a new wedding cake. With them being unable to do so, Morgans notes that Big Mom will perform "Soul Pocus". The atmosphere around Big Mom and the cooks changes dramatically as she gives them the choice to bring another wedding cake or surrender their lives. The cooks fear for their lives, which causes wisps of their lifespan to leave their body, and as they run away, Big Mom pulls out their lifespans.
Inside the Mirro-World, all of the Luffy duplicates have been unleashed and so Jinbe and Pedro go to back up Luffy while Nami, Chopper, and Carrot go to help Sanji, leaving Caesar alone with Brulee. Outside, Big Mom angrily turns her attention to Luffy as he and his duplicates run circles around her and her crew, asking aloud who the real one is. Bege is initially confident that Luffy will not divulge his location, but is completely flabbergasted as Luffy immediately identifies himself. An enraged Big Mom prepares to attack him with Zeus and Prometheus, and when he sees the Mother Carmel portrait, Luffy races toward it. However, as he activates Gear 2 and prepares to destroy it, he is suddenly hit by a massive tendril of a sticky substance coated in Busoshoku Haki. The tendril is revealed to be Katakuri's leg, and Big Mom is initially mad at her son for interfering in her fight. However, Katakuri reveals that he foresaw Luffy destroying the portrait, shocking everyone in the venue, and Bege gets worried about the plan being foiled.
With Luffy unable to escape the substance, Katakuri slams him towards the ground, but Jinbe comes in and launches a blast of tea that frees Luffy. Jinbe reveals to Luffy that Katakuri ate the Mochi Mochi no Mi, a "special Paramecia" Devil Fruit allowing him to control mochi. Big Mom notices Jinbe, and he addresses her, saying that he told the Straw Hats about the Carmel portrait. He then makes his official request to leave the Big Mom Pirates so he can join the Straw Hats, and Big Mom asks if he will pay the price; he agrees, but on the condition that no one else is harmed. Big Mom then asks if he wants to stay or give up his lifespan, and Jinbe chooses to give up his lifespan. However, as Big Mom begins Soul Pocus again, she is unable to pull out Jinbe's lifespan due to him not fearing for his life. Jinbe says that he cannot be afraid of an Emperor if he is a member of the future Pirate King's crew, and decides to return the sake cup that had formed their bond in order to part ways with Big Mom. However, Big Mom steps on the cup and remarks that she and Jinbe are now enemies, causing her to unleash a powerful attack with Prometheus. However, in the midst of the fiery explosion, Brook, who had disguised himself as Luffy and jumped out of the cake with the other duplicates, walks up to the Carmel portrait and smashes it with a hammer.

In disguise, Brook successfully destroys the portrait of Carmel. Big Mom quickly notices and begins her mental crisis. However, Brook removes his mask, revealing himself to Big Mom. She recognizes Brook and instead of shrieking, she goes on a blind rampage against the wedding guests. In retaliation, several of the Big Mom Pirates clash against the Straw Hats. Luffy and Jinbe fight off some of the minor Big Mom Pirates but are becoming overwhelmed. Pedro also fights, but is attacked by Oven. Oven uses his Devil Fruit power to heat up Pedro's sword, making it too hot to use.
Meanwhile, Sanji runs away with Pudding, but she turns on him, attacking him with a pistol. Sanji, dodging the bullets, attempts to sympathize with her. However, they are quickly attacked by Daifuku, who strikes Pudding out of the way. Daifuku uses his Devil Fruit power to summon a genie from his belt, who fights Sanji.
In the Mirro-World, Caesar Clown, disguised as Gastino, carries Brulee around. Caesar plots to escape, but is angered from being constantly seen as a loser by the others.
Vinsmoke Judge watches the chaos unfold and demands his weapon back, but Perospero stops him, promising to protect him "firmly and solidly." The Vinsmokes are all bound to chairs with candy using Perospero's Devil Fruit ability. Although Judge is angry about the betrayal, Ichiji, Niji and Yonji react nonchalantly, mocking their own deaths. Angry at her father for raising them without empathy, Reiju watches in scorn.
Luffy plans to show Big Mom the broken portrait again to get her to shriek. He runs to the portrait picks up the pieces. Meanwhile, Katakuri approaches Bege, ordering him to shoot Luffy. Bege refuses and prepares to fight Katakuri, backed up by Jinbe and Pedro.

With Perospero and the Big Mom Pirates about to assassinate the Vinsmoke Family, Sanji runs toward them. Nusstorte leaps to strike him with his sword, but Sanji blocks it. Laurin and Dosmarche then attack, and Sanji works to get around them as well. However, he is then confronted by Daifuku again. Outside the venue, Caesar exits the Mirro-World with Brulee in tow. Brulee pleads to not let her crewmates see her face so they do not kill her, but Caesar quiets her and looks forward to completing the mission and getting his heart back. He looks over the venue wall, and sees the Carmel portrait broken, and so is unsure why Big Mom is not shrieking right now.
Inside, Luffy runs toward Big Mom to show her the broken portrait, and Katakuri chases after him. Bege, Jinbe, and Pedro stand in Katakuri's way, and Bege shoots rapidly at the Sweet Commander. Katakuri uses his Devil Fruit power to turn his body into mochi and let the bullets pass through him, and the other Big Mom Pirates are taken aback by Bege's display of betrayal. They shoot at Luffy, but his rubber body deflects the bullets. Luffy prepares to put the portrait shards in front of Big Mom, but his arms are grabbed by Oven, who heats them up with his Devil Fruit. Luffy drops the portrait pieces and Oven picks them up, but Brook then attacks and freezes Oven solid. He gives the pieces to Luffy as Oven heats his way out of his encasement, and Brook faces Oven while Luffy keeps running. Meanwhile, Katakuri avoids another round of Bege's bullets before racing toward Luffy again, and as he runs, he tells Perospero to hurry and kill the Vinsmokes. Perospero taunts Judge, who can only weep over the absence of their Raid Suits. Sanji races toward his family, but Daifuku summons his genie to attack. Sanji blocks its first strike, and as he runs, Reiju silently expresses her happiness at Sanji being kind enough to try to rescue them, even though she considers them worthless. However, the genie catches up to Sanji again and pins him to the ground, and Sanji cannot do anything except shout at his family to run while Reiju silently thanks him and accepts her fate.
Katakuri continues chasing Luffy, covering Bege's gun with mochi before stretching a mochi leg towards Luffy. Pedro cuts the mochi leg, and Jinbe comes in and uses Fish-Man Karate to throw a punch at Katakuri, but the Sweet Commander turns most of his body into mochi and dodges the strike. He then successfully catches up to Luffy and pins him to the ground with mochi, but as he foresees, this is insufficient as Luffy stretches his arms up to Big Mom's face, allowing her to see the broken portrait. Big Mom takes the shards and puts them together, realizing that her prized portrait of Carmel is broken. This causes her to unleash a devastating scream that overwhelms everyone in the venue, and only the enemy alliance members are able to move around thanks to their earplugs. As Daifuku recoils and his genie disappears, Sanji breaks free and runs toward his family, activating Diable Jambe and performing a spinning kick into the top of the table. This causes Perospero's candy to shatter, freeing the Vinsmokes as Chopper gives them earplugs while Carrot and Nami give them their Raid Suits. Elsewhere, Vito and Gotti come out of Bege's body with their KX Launchers at the ready, and Smoothie cries out in shock in anger as she sees what they intend to do. As she screams, Big Mom calls out to Mother Carmel, recalling a time when she lost her as well as some other kids and asking why she left.

As Big Mom screams, she calls out to Mother Carmel and asks where she went to. A flashback starts, showing Big Mom's past 63 years ago when she was five years old. Linlin and her parents arrived at Elbaf's shore on a ship. Linlin's parents tell her to stay on the island and promise Linlin that they will return and reward her with sweets if she waits for them. Linlin replies that she will stay and wait for them and tells them goodbye as they leave Linlin alone on the island. Linlin's mother cries and her father says that it is best for them to leave Linlin on the island after all the damage she has caused around them and hopes that Mother Carmel will save her since he knows she lives on Elbaf. At the shore, Linlin sits down and waits for her parents to return but the day goes by and her parents do not come, causing Linlin to ask why they are not coming like they promised.
A century ago, there was a pirate crew of giants called the Giant Warrior Pirates who caused a lot of havoc around the seas and burnt countless cities. One day, the Giant Warrior Pirates lost their two captains when they began their duel on Little Garden. Not long after, several members of the giant crew were caught by the Marines and were about to be executed. However, a young Carmel, known as "Sister Carmel" at the time, steps in and tells the Marines to stop the execution. Carmel explains that if they were executed, the warriors of Elbaf will form an army to seek revenge against humans and tells the Marines to forgive them. A beam of light flashes on Carmel and she says that she will lead the giants into forming a world where all races coexist in great harmony. Eventually, Carmel receives the name "Mother" and she opens an orphanage called the Sheep's House, where she accepts children of all races who did not have a place to go while settling on Elbaf, hoping to build a bridge of friendship between humans and giants. 
37 years later, Mother Carmel meets the five-year old Linlin for the first time, promising that she will be in good hands until her parents return and tells Linlin that she will make good friends while in the orphanage. Because Linlin was always big, Elbaf was the first place she has been where people, houses, and other things fit her size, which made Linlin comfortable staying while in Elbaf. One day, Linlin spots a bear and a wolf fighting, knocking them both out and tells them that fighting is not good. Linlin is later spotted crying by Carmel and Linlin explains that she wanted a wolf and a bear to stop fighting and become friends so she decides to put them in the same cage in hopes that the bear and wolf would get along, but the bear ended up eating the wolf causing Linlin to hit it. Carmel asks how many times she hit the bear and Linlin replies that she hit the bear only once, causing Carmel to be shocked that Linlin was even able to kill the bear with one blow. Carmel tells Linlin that it is okay because she only wanted them to be friends to which Linlin finally formed a bond with Mother Carmel. To Linlin, Carmel was the first person who truly understood her. At this moment, the orphans started to talk about how Linlin was a dangerous person, able to kill a bear with one blow and even caused a giant an injury after she tried to hit a mosquito on him, breaking several of his bones. Linlin is spotted by Carmel twice, once trying to get rid of a longarm orphan's extra elbow joints and a fish-man orphan's fins. Carmel informs her that it was normal for them to look like that because of each of them belonging to a specific race that makes them carry those traits. Carmel pardoned her actions and told all the orphans to forgive her and that she is a nice child.
Ten months later, Oimo and Kashii discussed about the ongoing duel between their former captains, Dorry and Brogy, and decided to go check on them in ten years. Linlin chases after a giant girl named Gerd and is asked by Kashii if they finished with the preparations. Linlin asks what the preparations were for and Gerd tells her that in Elbaf, they go fasting for 12 days before the Winter Solstice Festival. Linlin was surprised on the thought of not eating for 12 days and says that she will be hungry. Gerd replies that if she fast, the festival will be enjoyable. Meanwhile, a young Hajrudin is seen training with an Elbaf warrior named Raideen. There, the two former captains of the Giant Warrior Pirates, Jarul and Jorul commends Raideen for his warrior spirit, causing Hajrudin to be grateful for their coming. Kashii asks why they came and Jorul replies that they will gather all the orphans together so everybody can eat semla. Linlin asks what semla is and Gerd replies that it is a very delicious sweet, much to Linlin's excitement, and explains that before they fast, they would get enough nutrition by eating semla. Gerd gives a description of semla to Linlin while both eventually drool over the thought of eating semla. Eventually, everyone gathers together in a banquet, ready to eat the semla with Jorul and Jarul thanking the sun for the birth of Loki, Goldberg, and Road as well as the growth of the children. As there were already a large quantity of semla made, everyone began to make their thanks and eat. Linlin eats semla and instantly fell in love with it, eating a huge quantity of semla very fast until she was stopped by two giants forcing her not to eat too fast as there would not be enough semla for other people to eat and told her not to forget to thank the sun. Linlin insist that she must eat semla and pushes the two giants away to eat the remaining semla on the plate and says that they were delicious. Three days have passed since the fasting started, and Linlin tells Carmel she is starved to which Carmel replies that fighting through the severe winter will lead the sun to shine down and it should be better for them to wait until the festival approaches. Days 4 and 5 passes and Linlin still feels very hungry but listens to Carmel to wait for the festival to begin. Day 6, Linlin thinks about semla and says she wants to eat it. On Day 7, Gerd rushes to Mother Carmel in a panic and reveals that Linlin was rampaging in the village. There, Linlin is wreaking havoc screaming for semla. As everyone is in shock of what Linlin did, Jorul walks in and says she has no right to thank the sun and her actions are unforgivable, stating that she is a god of disaster within a child's body. He draws his sword out to strike her down with Carmel telling him to stop as Linlin calls out for semla.

63 years ago on Elbaf, Jorul brought his sword down on Linlin, only for her to break it with her arm and flip the giant over, greatly injuring him. As other giants went to try subduing Linlin, Carmel told them to get the semla they had stored, and she went up to the flames engulfing Elbaf Village. Using her Devil Fruit powers, Carmel gave life to the flames and condensed them into a small sun, which she named Pandora. The giants stared in awe at Carmel's seeming miracle, and Linlin went to sleep after fulfilling her semla craving. Jorul urged the giants to retaliate against Linlin, saying to not think of her as a child, and Jarul prepared to plunge his sword Linlin. Carmel stood in his way and pleaded for forgiveness, and Jarul refused, saying Jorul would die from his injuries due to his advanced age. Carmel offered to leave Elbaf with Linlin, and Jarul reluctantly accepted her offer despite Hajrudin wanting Linlin dead. The next morning, Linlin went to Jorul's grave with the rest of the Sheep's House children, and to the giants' surprise, she had no memory of how he died.
Carmel took her wards to another island, where the giants built a new Sheep's House for them. Life resumed as normal for Linlin and the other kids, and one day, Carmel said she would be away for a bit to buy groceries. However, she instead went to a government ship to converse with Cipher Pol agents. It had been believed that Carmel had put the children of the Sheep's House into foster homes, but in reality, she was an Underworld child trafficker who sold children to become soldiers in the Marines or Cipher Pol. Her salvation of the Giant Warrior Pirates had been an act as well that resulted in giants like John Giant joining the Marines. Carmel put Linlin up for sale at a high price, promising that she would be a powerful tool for the Marines or Cipher Pol. She decided to retire after this transaction was completed, and returned to the Sheep's House, planning to celebrate Linlin's birthday the next day before handing over the children to Cipher Pol.
The next day, Carmel and the Sheep's House children presented Linlin with a croquembouche made of semla for her sixth birthday. Linlin became overjoyed as she gorged on the semla, and the friends she had made cheered her on. She became so happy that tears clouded her eyes, and noted that she took a few bites out of the table in the process, but when she finished eating, she opened her eyes to see Carmel, the other children, and the table no longer there, with only various scraps and parts of Carmel's clothing remaining. She looked around for them, but could not find them, and cried in despair as night fell. In the present, Big Mom screams over the despair of Carmel's disappearance, wanting desperately to know where she went all those years ago.

In the present day, Big Mom cries over Carmel's disappearance 63 years ago. Unbeknownst to her, there were two people who witnessed her disappearance that day. One was a giant from Elbaf who came to check on the Sheep's House, and when he saw what happened, he became horrified and ran away. He returned to Elbaf and told the other giants about what happened, causing them to revile Linlin even more. The other witness was a cook and former pirate named Streusen, who could turn inanimate objects into food with the Kuku Kuku no Mi. Streusen was amused by what he saw, and he decided to take advantage of Linlin. He approached her, offering to feed her if she accompanied him and made her a feast to eat.
In the present, Bege, Vito, and Gotti shoot their KX Launchers at Big Mom, and as she screams, Big Mom recalls the dream of wanting to create a utopia where all races live in harmony. Before Carmel disappeared, she had told Linlin and the other children about her dream for all races to see eye to eye, and Linlin interpreted this as making everyone else as large as her. After the disappearance, she told Streusen about this dream, and the cook offered to help make the island they were on into her utopia. Linlin still mourned over Carmel, and tried recreating the motions she had made to give life to objects. To her surprise, she was now able to do this as well and gave life to several flowers, trees, and pieces of ground, which impressed Streusen. Later, some Marines came onto the island to search for Carmel and the children she was going to sell when they encountered Linlin's homies. They were shocked by the living objects and tried to shoot them when they encountered Linlin. Angered at their actions, Linlin hit and threw the Marines with devastating power, to Streusen's delight. They later set off to sea, where Linlin easily destroyed and took over several islands. She received a bounty of 50,000,000 despite only being a child, and the Cipher Pol marked her as a dangerous future threat. Not very long afterwards, she was eating sweets in a castle she had attacked when she was confronted by Marines. She quickly overpowered them with the help of her new homies Zeus and Prometheus, and her bounty grew to 500,000,000 as she continued conquering islands with ease in order to impose her dream upon them, attacking people who did not go along with her wishes.
In the present, Big Mom grows frustrated at how people have always resisted her and Carmel's dream, and before the Fire Tank Pirates' shots can hit her, they are destroyed by her angry screams. Aghast at their failure, Bege, Vito, and Gotti run away, while Katakuri manages to put mochi earplugs in his ears. With his composure regained, he makes earplugs for his crewmates, allowing them to move around again. With the plan failed, Caesar then flies Brulee and the mirror down into the venue to help the Straw Hats and Fire Tank Pirates to escape. However, Big Mom's scream shatters the mirror, leaving the pirate alliance trapped on the roof of the Whole Cake Chateau as the Big Mom Pirates come for them.

With the Big Mom Pirates back on the move and surrounding him and his allies, Bege activates Rook In Voller Grosse: Big Father, turning his entire body into a fortress and growing massive in size. He tells his crewmates and allies to get inside him, and the Fire Tank Pirates shoot at the Big Mom Pirates to keep them at bay. As Nami, Chopper, and Carrot run toward Bege, they are knocked away by Caesar who is rocketing toward safety, causing them to get stuck in some cake. Caesar's progression is halted when Katakuri grabs Brulee, who is still kept in Caesar's backpack, with a mochi arm. After a brief struggle, Caesar breaks free of the bag and Katakuri rescues Brulee. Katakuri then leads his crewmates toward Bege, shooting several of the Fire Tank Pirates with jelly beans. Nami, Chopper, and Carrot pull themselves out of the cake and try to make it to Bege, but Nami is grabbed by Smoothie. Chopper unsuccessfully tries attacking Smoothie before being grabbed by Oven, and Carrot is apprehended by Daifuku's genie.
Meanwhile, Du Feld manages to acquire some mochi earplugs to protect himself from Big Mom's scream. He goes to steal the treasure in the Tamatebako, but to his horror, Big Mom's scream blows the chest off of the Chateau roof.
At the Vinsmoke Family's table, several of the Big Mom Pirates approach them with the intention of completing their intended assassination, and Sanji sees his crewmates in danger. The Vinsmokes decide to put on their Raid Suits, gaining their signature abilities. Niji uses Dengeki Blue to catch bullets at blinding speed, and some bullets and arrows are neutralized by Reiju's Poison Pink. Yonji uses Winch Green to catch and crush two boulders thrown at him, and Judge creates a whirlwind with his spear that blows Tablet, Mascarpone, and Joscarpone away. Basskarte then launches fireballs at the family, but Ichiji uses Sparking Red to blow away the flames with an explosion. When Perospero attacks the family with a candy wave, Ichiji punches him aside as Niji attacks Oven with an electric kick, freeing Chopper. Yonji confronts Saint-Marc, and easily overwhelms the large pirate with his strength as he spins him around before slamming him into Daifuku's genie, making it release Carrot. Yonji then subdues the genie by slamming his outstretched hand into the back of its head. Reiju kicks Smoothie in the arm, infecting the Sweet Commander with poison and forcing her to let go of Nami. As Nami falls a great distance toward the ground, she is caught by Sanji, who brings her to Bege. Luffy hits Dacquoise, Laurin, and another Big Mom Pirate away from Bege's entrance, and Sanji, Nami, Chopper, Carrot, and the Vinsmokes successfully make it into the fortress.
Bege then turns his attention to Big Mom, who is still weakened due to her breakdown. He tries shooting at her with his cannons, but Perospero blocks the shots with a candy wall. Bege then brings out tank treads and rolls toward Big Mom, planning to shoot her with all the ammunition he has. However, Katakuri plugs up the cannons with mochi, which causes them to explode. Refusing to give up, Bege rolls toward Big Mom again in an attempt to run her over, only for Perospero to hold him in place with his candy entrapments. Bege then declares the plan to assassinate Big Mom as a failure, and tells his crewmates and allies that they will have to fight under siege from the Big Mom Pirates.

The Big Mom Pirates besiege Bege as his Big Father form continues to be trapped, and Smoothie wrings out the poison that Reiju attacked her with. Katakuri confronts Brulee about her role in the enemy alliance, and she assures him in panic that she was a victim. Meanwhile, Bege manifests inside his body and notes that this was the first time one of his assassination plots failed. He says that they do not have much time to think of a way out, and immediately afterwards, Big Mom stops screaming and regains her senses. After Katakuri tells her about Bege's betrayal, she flies into a rage and begins attacking him. Bege reveals that since the Big Father fortress is his body, he will die if it is destroyed and everyone inside him will be expelled right in front of the Big Mom Pirates lying in wait. This is soon demonstrated when Big Mom hits Bege and destroys stone that could normally resist cannon fire, and inside, Bege takes injuries and writhes in pain from the damage. Big Mom climbs on Bege, peering through a window and telling him and Luffy to come out.
The Fire Tank Pirates become panicked as they try thinking of ways to help Bege, and Chiffon rushes to the window to plead for Big Mom to spare his life. However, Big Mom becomes enraged upon seeing her due to being reminded of her twin Lola, and Big Mom believes she conspired with Bege as she attempts to attack her. Luffy pulls Chiffon out of harm's way, and decides to go out and attack Big Mom. His crewmates stop him, reminding him that they did not come to fight, but Luffy wants to help Bege. Bege states that he does not care if the crews he allied with perish during this, but will continue protecting them in order to keep his family and crew safe. He then reveals his plan to escape. His exterior body will return to normal, with everyone remaining inside, and Caesar will come out and fly him to the coast of Whole Cake Island. However, Caesar protests this idea, believing that the Big Mom Pirates would easily kill him despite his Logia powers.
Meanwhile, Judge asks Sanji why he decided to save him and his family. Sanji replied that his real father would be disappointed to hear that he left his blood family to die out of petty vengeance, even though they hid him away in a cell to erase his existence as a child. Remembering how Judge told him to never claim to be his child before he escaped to East Blue, Sanji walks up to him, grabs him by the neck, and disowns him as his father. Judge accepts this, and agrees to never go after him or the East Blue in the future. Meanwhile, the others are in a frenzy as Bege's fortifications become very weak and Caesar still refuses to follow the plan. The Vinsmokes then go up to Bege, offering to head out and defend him and Caesar from the Big Mom Pirates. They head toward the gate, and Caesar is coerced to go along as Bege threatens his heart, and as Bege returns to his normal form, the Vinsmokes and Caesar fly out toward Big Mom.

After Bege reverts back to his normal body and Caesar and Germa 66 emerge from it, Bege and Caesar are left out in the open, and the Big Mom Pirates quickly take the opportunity to shoot at them mercilessly. However, Ichiji, Niji, Yonji, and Reiju shield them from the bullets. Caesar then grabs Bege and flies off with Germa accompanying him, and Katakuri foresees that they are trying to fly over the wall and escape from the wedding venue. Judge attacks Katakuri but misses, and the Big Mom Pirates leap up to attack their enemies. However, Big Mom stops them as she throws Prometheus toward the enemy pirates. Reiju takes the brunt of the blast, and is eventually overwhelmed and falls onto the ground. Luffy wants to leave Bege to help Reiju, but his crewmates hold him back. Mascarpone and Joscarpone attempt to attack her while she is down, but Reiju quickly responds by kicking them in the necks and poisoning them. Smoothie comes to remove the poison from her siblings, while Big Mom prepares to attack Reiju with Zeus. However, both Luffy and Sanji leap out of Bege and block the attack, and both of them are annoyed that the other came with them.
Nami, Chopper, and Brook are aghast at Luffy and Sanji's action, and after the clash, Sanji quickly grabs Luffy and they and Reiju run away from Big Mom. She calls out to Luffy, reminding him that he had promised to defeat her and wondering why he is running away. In response for her taunts, Luffy goes back to punch her once, despite Sanji's pleas. He activates Gear 4 and attacks Big Mom with Kong Gun, saying that he would become Pirate King, but she counters by simply coating her arms in Busoshoku Haki. Meanwhile, the Big Mom Pirates attempt to shoot Caesar in the air, but their bullets are again blocked by Germa. Vito assures the Straw Hats that his idols the Germa will protect them, and when High-Fat and Noisette leap up to attack, Niji beats them away with Dengeki Blue. Mobile, Laurin, and Mash then move to attack, but Yonji grabs the latter two and throws them into Mobile, sending them crashing into the ground. Dacquoise, Zuccotto, and Kato then attack, but Ichiji easily deals with them. He then flies toward Dacquoise and dodges his shots before punching him in the chest with Sparking Red, forcing him back onto the ground. As Germa protects him and his allies, Vito gazes at them in awe.
The Big Mom Pirates' assault continues as Oven leaps up right in front of Caesar and heats up his fists. However, Yonji intercepts the attack, allowing Caesar to fly away. Oven makes his fists too hot for Yonji to handle, forcing Yonji to separate from him as they confront each other. Daifuku then summons his genie to confront Caesar, but Niji steps in. Niji meets the genie's halberd with a kick, and their massive clash causes the genie to dissipate. Smoothie then jumps up, preparing to squeeze Caesar and Bege, but she is stopped by Ichiji. The two dodge each others' strikes, and Smoothie grabs Ichiji's leg as he attempts to fly away, but he manages to increase his jet power enough to escape her grasp. The Big Mom Pirates continue their pursuit, and Bege's subordinates attempt to shoot them from inside his body, but Judge arrives to take them down. Caesar gets very close to the wall and freedom, but Perospero erects a candy wall that converges down on him. However, Ichiji, Niji, and Yonji come rushing in and combine their abilities in an attack on the wall that completely shatters it, and the Straw Hats cheer on Caesar as he nears the home stretch.
Meanwhile, Du Feld is relieved that the Tamatebako landed on a ledge of the Whole Cake Chateau only a short distance below. He prepares to go get it, when he is confronted by Stussy. During this encounter, the frosting under Du Feld gives way, causing him to fall onto the ledge where the Tamatebako is. He excitedly goes to open it, only to be shot by Stussy's Tobu Shigan; being revealed to be an undercover CP0 agent, she declares that the Tamatebako will go to the World Government. She makes sure that Morgans, who is spying on this exchange, will blame the theft on Du Feld in his newspaper in exchange for getting to see its contents. However, Du Feld's unconscious body leans on the Tamatebako and pushes it off the Chateau, to Stussy and Morgans' shock. Meanwhile, Luffy declares he will defeat Big Mom after he takes down Kaidou as he attacks Big Mom with a two-armed strike. Big Mom manages to repel him, and her blow causes Luffy to deactivate Gear 4, forcing Sanji to grab him and run away. Big Mom says that Luffy beating Kaidou is impossible, but he will not even get the chance to try because he will not escape from her territory. As she races toward Luffy, Judge comes flying in and attacks her, expressing his shame over the fact that he was duped in his quest to restore the glory days of Germa. However, Big Mom catches his spear in her teeth and destroys it. Judge unsuccessfully tries attacking her again, and she grabs him, saying that he can be assured she will use his scientific technology to bring peace to the world. She then uses Zeus to strike him with a massive thunderbolt.

Big Mom's attack on Judge shatters his helmet and takes him out. Niji and Yonji turn back to save their father, and as Caesar reaches the wall, he is confronted by Katakuri. Niji and Yonji attack Big Mom before she can finish Judge off, and Ichiji attacks Katakuri, splitting him in half and saving Caesar, who flies in the opposite direction. Meanwhile, Sanji, Reiju, and Luffy are confronted by Smoothie, Daifuku, and Oven. With Luffy still tired from using Gear 4, Sanji and Reiju go on the offensive. Sanji unleashes attacks against Oven and Daifuku, while Reiju tangles with Smoothie and successfully poisons her again.
However, Smoothie punches her into some rubble and squeezes out the poison again. Galette then binds Sanji, Reiju, and Luffy in place, allowing the Big Mom Pirates to attack and subdue them. Ichiji is unable to land a hit on Katakuri, and the Sweet Commander grabs him by the arm and knees him. Ichiji states that he will put his own life on the line to accomplish his task of keeping the Big Mom Pirates at bay, and uses Sparking Red to build up energy and unleash a devastating explosion that engulfs the two of them. However, Katakuri reforms without taking damage and grabs Ichiji by the neck before punching him in the face. Meanwhile, Yonji struggles to withstand Big Mom's strength, and Niji kicks her in the head using Electric Blue. However, Big Mom is barely affected by the voltage and shows the brothers true power as she strikes them both down with Zeus. Elsewhere, Caesar is confronted by Brulee, who has turned into a mirror image of him, and as he looks behind him, he realizes in shock that all of his allies have been defeated and the Big Mom Pirates are surrounding him, ready to shoot. With no options left, Bege concedes, and the Straw Hats and the Fire Tank Pirates prepare to go out and fight as Big Mom gleefully prepares to start their execution.
However, as the Tamatebako lands at the base of the Whole Cake Chateau, it cracks open and releases the explosives that the Minister of the Right had put in it back on Fish-Man Island. The resulting explosion rocks the Chateau and damages its base, causing it to collapse. Chaos erupts inside the Chateau, and the people in Sweet City flee from its impending fall. At the wedding venue on top of the Chateau, the Big Mom Pirates begin to fall along with it as well. Big Mom tumbles all the way off the venue, and is sent plummeting toward Sweet City a great distance below. Morgans takes pictures of the event as he and Stussy wonder how the Tamatebako could have possibly caused this. Brulee weeps as her family and crew are all sent tumbling to their doom, and Bege laughs gleefully at this reversal in fortune.

From the Tamatebako explosion, the Whole Cake Chateau collapses, sending Big Mom, Galette, Morgans and Stussy falling towards the ground. Galette is saved by Katakuri, Morgans falls to the ground and Stussy gets away using Geppo. Carrying Luffy, Sanji gets away and enters safety in Bege's castle. Caesar carries them all away and Germa 66 also retreats, but their castle in Germa Kingdom is attacked by the Big Mom Pirates.
Meanwhile, Streusen uses his Devil Fruit ability to cut the Whole Cake Chateau and turn it into sponge cake. Big Mom is saved by Zeus just before the Chateau crashes into the ground, flooding the island with cream. Big Mom complains that Streusen's ability produces food that does not taste good.
Mont-d'Or falls to the ground but ends up unharmed. Enraged that the Straw Hats had escaped, he orders all the Tartes in Totto Land to pursue them.
Bege takes the Straw Hats to a safe location. Disappointed, Vito confirms that the Big Mom Pirates have all survived the Chateau collapse. Bege also gives Caesar his heart back and frees him. Bege finally ends his alliance with the Straw Hats before leaving. The Straw Hats plan to escape using the Shark Submerge. 
Back at the wrecked Chateau, Katakuri divides the army into two units, one to pursue Straw Hat and one to pursue Bege. However, to the horror of Smoothie, Big Mom starts a crazed rampage demanding wedding cake. Opera attempts to flee but Smoothie, unhappy that Opera had lied to his family, orders him to stand up to Big Mom.
The other Big Mom Pirates gather and discuss the situation. Katakuri and Brulee decide to personally pursue the Straw Hats. However, they are interrupted by Smoothie, alerting them about Big Mom's hunger rampage. She continues to destroy the town in rage.

Big Mom continues her crazed rampage destroying Sweet City. To her crew's horror, she throws Opera's lifeless body into the ground, having removed some of his lifespan. Smoothie decides that they must find a wedding cake to give to Big Mom to stop the rampage. However, head chef Streusen had gotten critically hurt from the fall and was unconscious.
Perospero gets an idea. He lies to Big Mom, telling her that the Straw Hats have an extra wedding cake. This works, and Big Mom leaves Sweet City to pursue the Straw Hats, buying the family some time. However, before she leaves, she claims that if she finds out Perospero is lying, she would steal his lifespan.
Pudding arrives with a plan to make a new wedding cake, more specifically a chocolate chiffon cake. She reveals that she could make the chocolate, Chiffon could make the chiffon cake, and the needed ingredients were stored in Chocolat Town. She suggests leading Big Mom to Cacao Island.
In the outskirts, the Straw Hats plan to cut through the Seducing Woods to reach the Thousand Sunny. They see Kingbaum, who had been sewn back together by his fiancee, Lady Tree. Nami uses her Vivre Card to force him to transport them through the forest. She reveals she had torn the card in two, so Amande only took one of the pieces. However, they are pursued by an army of vengeful enemy pirates, as well as Big Mom herself riding on Zeus.
Meanwhile, the Germa Kingdom castle faces an attack from the Big Mom Pirates. Although one fighter finds the clone manufacturing room, Germa 66 arrives and quickly defeats the attacking army. Katakuri sneaks onboard the Thousand Sunny via the Mirro-World. 
Desperate for her wedding cake, Big Mom holds out her bicorne hat Napoleon, which transforms into a sword. She unleashes the powerful attack Ikoku, blasting off about a third of Kingbaum's body.

After Big Mom's attack, Nami encourages Kingbaum to continue to live on for the sake of his fiancee, Lady Tree. The encouragement works and the homie runs faster than before. Upon watching her manipulation, Pedro compares her to a devil while Carrot cheers her on. With Big Mom still on their tails, Luffy prepares to fight. However, Nami stops him, claiming to have an plan. Nami licks her lips and uses her Sorcery clima-tact to release Black Balls, weather balls with thunder clouds within them, as Big Mom starts to attack again. She claims that "Thunder likes thunder". Big Mom falls to the ground as Zeus starts following the trail of Black balls away from Kingbaum. Kingbaum reaches the Seducing woods and all the homies make way for him, giving him a straight path to the coast where Sunny is.

Chopper and Brook make it to the juice river where they left the Shark Submerge III, but find the river flooded with cream, which was sent there by the Whole Cake Chateau's collapse. Chopper takes a liking to the cream and ends up eating enough of it to free the Submerge, and the duo head to the Thousand Sunny. As they go down the river, they spot a merman, and they are confronted by a massive sea beast, which they quickly sail away from.
As Luffy's group continues running away from Big Mom, Jinbe reveals that Big Mom is having a tantrum due to her craving for wedding cake. Nami gets mad at Luffy for ruining Big Mom's wedding cake, but he and Carrot remember how delicious it was. The group comes across a bridge that they had ran into the first time they came to the Seducing Woods, though Nami notes that the bridge had been destroyed earlier and that the homies in the Seducing Woods are trying to prevent their escape. She continues distracting Zeus by feeding him thunderclouds, and Zeus' fellow homie Prometheus berates him. Luffy decides to attack Prometheus to avenge Kingbaum, and rapidly punches him with Busoshoku Haki. However, Prometheus is unharmed by the attack due to only being a mass of flames, and he rains down fire on the Straw Hats. Jinbe responds by going to the river and shooting several bursts of water at Prometheus, which strips the homie of his power.
After this, however, Big Mom's children that were accompanying her manage to get in front of the Straw Hats, leaving them trapped. Luffy fends off Laurin and Compo's attacks despite them being assisted by the Seducing Woods homies, and Jinbe manages to counter High-Fat's sword strikes before overwhelming him with Fish-Man Karate. Carrot and Tablet clash, and Tablet pursues Carrot on his sheep steed. However, she manages to get on behind him and shock him with Electro, causing him to run into a tree. Sanji manages to break Mobile's swords with Diable Jambe before kicking Mobile into the ground. Meanwhile, Luffy finishes off Laurin and Compo with a single attack, and Jinbe defeats High-Fat by slamming him into the ground. Pedro clashes with Kato, who remembers Pedro's last time here five years ago. Kato insults Pedro's deceased comrade Zepo, and an angered Pedro subsequently overpowers and defeats him in their next clash.
The Straw Hats regroup, but are then chased again by Big Mom and a rejuvenated Prometheus. Sanji says they should not run without knowing where they are going, and Carrot offers to jump over the woods to spot the Sunny. However, her attempt is stopped by the tree homies. Pedro then offers to go, and he cuts a path through the trees to get on top of them and allow him to see the Sunny. He points the Straw Hats toward the Sunny's direction, and says he will guide them from above. However, the Straw Hats find themselves under attack from Big Mom's air slashes and Prometheus' fire rain, and Zeus ends up eating Nami's entire Weather Egg. The Weather Egg fills him up with storm energy and causes him to increase greatly in size, and Nami gets an idea as she has Sanji pick her up while they run away. She then uses her Clima-Tact to blow a gust of wind at Zeus, forcing him to unleash an enormous thunderbolt that strikes Big Mom with extreme power.

Pedro's massive sacrificial explosion engulfs the entire surrounding area, knocking Big Mom down as well as freeing the Thousand Sunny, Chopper, and Brook from their candy entrapments. A distraught Carrot tries to go to the scene of the explosion to desperately try to see if Pedro survived, but Nami holds her back, saying that Pedro gave his life to give them this chance to escape. Luffy prepares to have the crew activate Coup de Burst, but Katakuri still remains on the ship. He asks why everyone is so heated up, and Carrot activates Electro as she leaps at him in a rage. As she attacks, she remembers training in swordsmanship with Shishilian on Zou. Shishilian was constantly overpowering her when Pedro came in and offered to train Carrot with a weapon that would suit her better. He gave her a paw-shaped gauntlet to wear on her hand and trained her, to much greater success. Later, they sat on top of the Whale tree, and Carrot thanked Pedro for helping her to become stronger than she had ever imagined. He told her to be constantly prepared, as everyone would have their turn in life to act and so her turn would come as well. In the present, however, Katakuri manages to dodge all of Carrot's strikes before pinning her to the ground with his foot, and Carrot sheds a tear over her failure to live up to Pedro's instructions.
Luffy then steps in to fight Katakuri, and after Katakuri dodges his first wave of strikes, Luffy attacks with Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gun. Katakuri blocks the giant punch with a wall of mochi, but Luffy then unclenches his fist and wraps his fingers around Katakuri's body, trapping him. As Nami builds up the cola energy for Coup de Burst, Chopper and Brook go to tie the Shark Submerge III to the Sunny. However, they see Big Mom heading toward the ship, unharmed by the explosion, and go into a frenzy to get the Submerge tied into place. Amande's fleet of Tartes fires a round of cannonballs at the Sunny, but misses as the Coup de Burst preparation is completed. However, right before it can be activated, Big Mom grabs the Sunny's stern and tips the ship backward, causing one of the cola barrels to fall out of the Sunny's engine.
After realizing what has happened, Nami prepares to go restore the engine while Chopper and Brook intercept the next rounds of cannonballs fired by Amande's fleet. Jinbe wants to join them, but Nami tells him to man the helm while she goes below deck, and she gives him a tone dial from Franky to tell him how to activate Coup de Burst. Meanwhile, to Katakuri's horror, Brulee appears in the mirror behind Luffy to try to help, and Luffy then uses his other arm to grab onto her. As Big Mom starts taking bites out of the Sunny, the Straw Hats see in shock that Perospero is alive. Perospero emerges from the smoke with his right arm missing, and he curses Pedro for destroying his candy armor. Nami hurriedly goes below deck, where she reloads the barrel of cola that had been knocked out of place. With one arm grabbing Katakuri and one arm grabbing Brulee, Luffy tells his crew that he will leave the rest to them and will return to them later. Following Franky's instructions, Jinbe waits for the cola's energy to build up, and upon completion, he pulls the lever to activate Coup de Burst. The blast hits Big Mom from point-blank range, and the Sunny is sent flying over Amande's fleet and far into the distance. As they are in the air, however, the Straw Hats look and see no trace of Luffy or Katakuri. Luffy pulls himself and Katakuri through the Sunny's mirror into the Mirro-World, and Luffy breaks the mirror leading there as he faces Katakuri. Katakuri states that Luffy is no match for him and will die here, but Luffy affirms that he will defeat the Sweet Commander and return to the Sunny.

Luffy confronts Katakuri in the Mirro-World, and although the Sweet Commander states that Luffy's recklessness has made him very dangerous to the Big Mom Pirates, Luffy is no match for him in combat. Katakuri's subordinates affirm this, stating that his bounty is greater than 1,000,000,000 and he is the strongest of the Three Sweet Commanders. Luffy then attacks Katakuri, but Katakuri easily dodges all the attacks and hits Luffy with his advanced Kenbunshoku Haki. Eventually, Luffy attacks Katakuri with rapid punches, but instead of moving out of the way, Katakuri creates mochi tendrils out of his back that he fashions into fists, and he perfectly counters all of Luffy's punches with the mochi fists. After Luffy ceases his attack, Katakuri proceeds to pummel him with the fists, and mercilessly beats him to the point of pushing him into the wall and creating a crater. Katakuri says that he is superior to Luffy in everything, and with Gear 2 activated, Luffy attempts to assault Katakuri again. However, Katakuri manages to keep up with Luffy while in Gear 2 and eventually outpaces him to kick him into the wall. Katakuri then foresees that Luffy will show him his power next as Luffy bites into his thumb.
Meanwhile, the Thousand Sunny falls back to the sea, far away from Whole Cake Island. The crew briefly searches for Luffy, but deduces that he must have gone to the Mirro-World. Brook and Chopper then wonder where Pedro is, and Nami explains to them about Pedro's sacrifice as it starts to rain. The three of them and Carrot get emotional and weep, but Jinbe tells them to not get upset. This angers Brook, but Jinbe tells them that Pedro had been preparing to sacrifice himself, and that his sacrifice was what allowed them to escape the Big Mom Pirates' onslaught on Whole Cake Island. Since they are still in Totto Land and the Big Mom Pirates would soon pursue them again, they will need to get working and be vigilant in order to escape and honor Pedro's goal. This spurs Nami, Chopper, Brook, and Carrot into action, and they quickly get in position to aid in their voyage. However, Carrot soon spots the Big Mom Pirates' fleet coming after them, and it is accompanied by Big Mom herself, who is walking on a candy sea slug created by Perospero. Perospero creates a prosthetic right arm out of candy, but curses Pedro since the candy arm will melt whenever he drinks tea. Meanwhile, Zeus and Prometheus go to the coast of Whole Cake Island to find no one there, and the two homies are frustrated and hungry.
Elsewhere, as Sanji, Chiffon, Pudding, and Nitro ride Rabiyan toward Cacao Island, Sanji finds out that Lola is a master chocolatier. Chiffon reveals that Lola was the Minister of Chocolate who governed over Cacao Island before she ran away, and the position has not been filled since then since the best candidate, Pudding, refuses to take Lola's spot. Pudding is currently lying down in the rolled-up front of Rabiyan, and refuses to come out because she does not want to be seen with Sanji in her wedding dress. Down in the sea below, Pound is sailing away when he sees Chiffon up above. He tries calling out to his daughter, but she does not hear him as her team arrives at Cacao Island.

After sparring with speed, Katakuri predicts that Luffy will attack him with power next as Luffy activates his Elephant Gun. However, his giant fist is met by Katakuri's even bigger mochi fist, and he is slammed into the wall. Katakuri's men cheer as Luffy falls to the ground, but Luffy quickly recovers and immediately tries attacking again with Grizzly Magnum. However, Katakuri creates two bigger fists just as easily and overwhelms Luffy again. During their clash, Katakuri transforms the fists back into mochi and covers Luffy's arms with it, allowing him to spin Luffy around. Luffy manages to slip out of the mochi and tries to attack Katakuri with Gigant Axe, but Katakuri dodges the attack as he creates an even bigger foot out of mochi and pounds Luffy into the ground. Luffy is left lying in a crater after the attack, and Katakuri says he sees no victory in Luffy's future, with his men believing Luffy to already be defeated.
Meanwhile, Pudding puts handcuffs on Chiffon in order to pass her off as a prisoner, and manages to tell Sanji to hide in Rabiyan's fold. The group arrives at Cacao Island, and Pudding assures the concerned citizens that Chiffon was not a key member of her husband Capone Bege's plan to assassinate Big Mom. Some animals sense Sanji's presence, but Pudding manages to press on ahead to keep him hidden. The Choco Police officer takes her to the Sweets Factory, and they discuss the wedding and Big Mom's rampage. The officer states that Whole Cake Island's 31 finest head chefs have been gathered to help make the cake, and these chefs step out, ready to get to work.
The WCI 31 introduce themselves to Pudding's group, and she instructs the citizens outside to not peek inside the Sweets Factory at any time. She then has each of the chefs meet with her alone, and she manipulates their memories to make them think the wedding between her and Sanji was successful and that the cake was ruined by the weather. Meanwhile, Sanji shows Chiffon his blueprints for the cake, and she is taken aback at how he perfectly remembered all the ingredients through smell alone. Pudding then joins them, and she reveals what she did to the chefs. Sanji then gives orders to them, telling Chiffon to make the chiffon cake and Pudding to make the chocolate, and he will make the secret ingredient that he says will unlock true happiness. They will have a short two hours and 40 minutes to bake the cake, and will decorate it after taking it out to sea, with the intention of crossing paths with Big Mom and the Straw Hat Pirates between Cacao and Whole Cake Island and feeding her there. The WCI 31 does not think that they can cook in that short of a timespan, but Chiffon intimidates them into action as the group begins working.
In the Mirro-World, Katakuri receives a call from Perospero, who reveals to him that the Straw Hats escaped from their blockade on Whole Cake Island, but they are catching up to the crew through the water. He asks about Katakuri's fight with Luffy, and Katakuri says that he is just about to finish the pirate off. Luffy regains consciousness and overhears Perospero mocking Pedro's sacrifice and how it was in vain. Perospero tells Luffy that he will die in vain as well before the call ends, and as he starts talking to Brulee, Katakuri realizes that Luffy has gotten up. Luffy charges at Katakuri and attacks him with Elephant Gatling, but an annoyed Katakuri easily dodges it before countering it with a bigger mochi fist, sending Luffy crashing into the wall again. Saying that he is stronger than Luffy in every aspect, Katakuri pummels the pirate with dozens of mochi fists, leaving him lying submissively on the ground. Katakuri tells Brulee to take the soldiers and attack the Thousand Sunny, and Mascarpone and Joscarpone bring in a mirror leading to it. Luffy tries attacking them to get the mirror, but Katakuri stomps him into the ground, and Brulee gleefully holds the mirror while Mascarpone and Joscarpone aim flaming arrows at the portal to the Sunny.

Luffy attempts to stop Mascarpone and Joscarpone from shooting flaming arrows into the Thousand Sunny through a mirror, but his attacks are intercepted by Katakuri, who warns him to not attack his siblings before assaulting him. The arrows land in the men's room and set it on fire, and Luffy desperately tries calling out to the Sunny crew through a mirror shard. The crew is busy dealing with Amande's fleet, with Jinbe steering the ship to avoid cannonballs and Chopper and Brook intercepting some of the shots. Nami hears Luffy calling out through the mirror shard, and he tells her to break all of the mirrors on the Sunny. She says that he will not be able to get back if that happens, but he does not waver. Brook and Chopper then notice that the men's room is on fire and desperately try to put it out, but the crew is overwhelmed by both this and the attacks coming from around them. Mascarpone and Joscarpone prepare to continue shooting at the room while Chopper and Brook are in there, and Luffy races toward them, but Katakuri kicks him into the wall, causing him to let go of the mirror shard.
At Cacao Island, the chefs hurriedly get the ingredients prepared, but find that they are short on butter. Sanji tells them to use prunes to make a puree that will substitute for the butter, and they are very impressed, especially Pudding. She gets extremely excited every time the chefs remark that they are a good match or state that they are husband and wife, to the point of fainting.
Back in the Mirro-World, Brulee prepares to lead Mascarpone, Joscarpone, and the other Big Mom Pirates through the mirror so they can raid the Sunny. Luffy manages to attack Katakuri and break free of his foot pressed against him, and resumes talking with Nami. He once again tells her to break all of the Sunny's mirrors, warning of the impending invasion. Before the Sunny crew can do anything, however, they are suddenly faced with a massive wave created by Big Mom and Perospero's candy homie, and Nami does not think there is a way to escape from it. The crew cowers in terror with the exception of Jinbe, who says he has a plan and has the crew affix ropes to the sails. He then grabs the ropes while standing at the helm, allowing him to control the sails singlehandedly. On top of the wave, Perospero cautions Big Mom against this excessive action, but it is too late as the waves begin crashing down. Jinbe steers the ship straight toward the wave, and the Straw Hats are sure that they will die as the wave comes down. However, they find themselves inside a pocket space in the wave, which Jinbe calls the "Green Room"; he says it is a popular place for fish-men children to play in. Jinbe pilots the ship through the Green Room, taking it out of the wave safely, and the Straw Hats rejoice. Perospero and Big Mom stand on their candy homie with nothing in sight around them, and Perospero thinks that his lie was buried with the Straw Hats. He calls Katakuri to report the Sunny crew's demise, and Brulee's group calls off their invasion, although they notice that the room on the other side of the mirror does not seem to be underwater. However, Nami shatters the mirror, and tells her crewmates to trust in Luffy as they worry over her actions. With his orders carried out, Luffy prepares to renew his fight against Katakuri.

Brulee finds another mirror leading to the Sunny, and Mascarpone and Joscarpone prepare to shoot flaming arrows into it. However, the Sunny crew quickly gets to work locating and breaking all the remaining mirrors on the ship, and the Big Mom Pirates are shocked as they shatter. Mascarpone and Joscarpone think that the Sunny sunk into the ocean which caused the mirrors to shatter, but Brulee is suspicious about it. Luffy notices the mirrors shattering, and catches Chopper on the other side of the mirror shard in his possession. Luffy runs away from Katakuri and the Big Mom Pirates to talk to them in secret, and Chopper reveals that Jinbe saved them from Big Mom's tidal wave. The crew wonders how Luffy will get back to them, and they make a plan for Luffy to reunite with them on Cacao Island, where they intend to reach in 10 hours at 1:00 AM. However, at that moment, Katakuri assaults Luffy, shattering the mirror shard. Luffy struggles to get away from Katakuri while holding the tiny remnants of the mirror, but is smashed into the ground by a giant mochi axe kick, and his crew is greatly concerned. However, Luffy acts like everything is fine and approves the plan to reunite on Cacao Island, causing his crewmates to celebrate.
In Sweet City, Count Niwatori asks Mont-d'Or about the status of the Straw Hats, worrying that they may have escaped from Totto Land. However, Mont-d'Or reassures him that the Territorial Sea Slugs will soon sense them, and they along with the Germa Kingdom will be overwhelmed. At the Germa Kingdom, the Big Mom Pirates have begun their assault. Yonji fights Charlotte Basskarte, and initially overpowers him as he easily deals with his flame shots. However, as Yonji charges at him, Basskarte uncovers his mouth and breathes a large stream of fire that consumes the former.
As Luffy struggles to get up, Katakuri brings his trident Mogura out of his arm and correctly predicts Luffy's declaration that he will not die here. He mocks this declaration, and Brulee pops out of a mirror to tell Luffy that he has no hope of beating Katakuri, saying that her brother is a superhuman who has never laid down since he was born. Luffy gets annoyed and tries to punch Brulee, but Katakuri grabs his arm and throws him against the wall. Katakuri then transforms his arm into mochi and uses Mochi Tsuki to twist it around to strike at Luffy with Mogura. Luffy barely dodges the strike, and is awed at the damage left to the wall behind him before being forced to run away as the damage results in the entire section collapsing. As Luffy and Katakuri continue fighting, it turns out that Brulee had overheard Luffy talking to his crew and found out that they were still alive. She contacts Perospero to tell him about this and reveals the plan to meet on Cacao Island, and this relieves Perospero as he thinks Pudding's cake baking operation on Cacao Island will enable him to cover up his lie. He tells Big Mom to go to Cacao Island, but to his horror, she decides to head to the nearby Nuts Island instead. Back in the Mirro-World, Katakuri maintains his advantage against Luffy by overpowering him with Mogura, and Luffy continues to be unable to lay a hand on him. He tries using Thor Elephant Gun to punch Katakuri into the ground, but Katakuri transforms into mochi to avoid it and after transforming back, he punches Luffy into the air before attempting to strike him with Mochi Tsuki again.

Katakuri prepares to use Mochi Tsuki on Luffy in the air, but Luffy manages to use the wall to propel himself away from Mogura. Luffy attempts to counterattack, but Katakuri throws him into the wall and strikes at him with Mogura again. Luffy very narrowly avoids being impaled, and when Katakuri attempts another strike, he bunches himself up to duck under it. However, this propels him upward right into the ceiling, and Katakuri kicks him back to a wall. Luffy narrowly falls to the ground right before Katakuri strikes his spot on the wall with Mochi Tsuki, and he is utterly dazed. Luffy manages to dodge more of Katakuri's attacks, but any of his attempts to attack lead to him being harmed. However, Katakuri notes that Luffy is tiring him out like no one ever has before, and as he attacks again, Luffy attempts to grab ahold of Mogura. Katakuri pulls it back just in time, and when Luffy attempts attacking again, he throws the Straw Hat to the ground before pinning him with his hand. Katakuri prepares to strike Luffy at point-blank range, but Luffy manages to stop Mogura with his legs. This allows him to punch the ground and escape from Katakuri's grasp.
At Sweet City on Whole Cake Island, Mont-d'Or gets annoyed with Pekoms for weeping over Pedro's death. Count Niwatori states that he can sympathize with Pekoms, recalling how Pedro sacrificed his eye to Big Mom five years ago in order to witness the "Dawn of the World". Now that Pedro had sacrificed his life to free the Straw Hats, Niwatori grows concerned about the threat they may pose to Big Mom. Mont-d'Or scoffs at the thought of them challenging Big Mom, viewing their actions so far as luck, but Niwatori points out that several things have somehow gone their way since they arrived, which is concerning to him.
On the seas of Totto Land, the Fire Tank Pirates sail their ship the Nostra Castello away from a fleet led by Custard, the sixth daughter of the Charlotte Family. Bege has the ship turn around and fire at Custard's fleet, and after a few attempts he manages to hit the Tartes right next to Custard's ship. Custard is distracted while arranging for the Tartes to be repaired, allowing the Fire Tank Pirates to escape, and she reports this to Mont-d'Or. At the Germa Kingdom, Charlotte Dosmarche attacks Ichiji, and overwhelms him briefly with his rapidly-spinning dual blade. Charlotte Nusstorte similarly catches Niji off-guard with a tornado created by his hat. However, the Vinsmokes are ultimately unfazed by these attacks, and eventually take down the Big Mom Pirates' 10,000-strong army. Niji contacts Mont-d'Or and impersonates Nusstorte to trick him into believing that the Big Mom Pirates were victorious, and the Vinsmokes find out the status of the Straw Hats.
Back in the Mirro-World, Katakuri uses his awakened Devil Fruit powers to turn the ground in front of him into mochi, which forces Luffy off-balance. Katakuri wraps Luffy in mochi, and predicts that Luffy will respond by activating Gear 4. Thus, before Luffy can blow into his arm, Katakuri is able to prevent his transformation by punching him with mochi tendrils. As chefs wait in the shadows with carts of food, Katakuri grows annoyed that Luffy has made him late for his merienda. Giving Luffy his due respect, Katakuri ends their battle by turning several of the walls into mochi and piling them on top of Luffy with the intent to suffocate him. Katakuri then heads off as a buried Luffy stops struggling under the weight of the mochi.

With Luffy buried under the massive pile of mochi, Katakuri calls out to his chefs to bring in the sweets for his merienda. The chefs come out and proudly display the large donuts they made from rare ingredients, although the tea had become cold while Katakuri had been fighting. However, Katakuri accepts iced tea, relieving them. Katakuri then constructs a house out of mochi to eat his snacks in private, and the chefs are impressed at what they think is Katakuri trying to take the time to concentrate. Katakuri enters the house, warning the chefs to not let anyone in, and the chefs notice in shock that Luffy's arm is no longer sticking out of the bottom of the mochi pile. They watch as the pile starts to shake, and an obese Luffy eventually emerges from it after having eaten his way out. He looks around for Katakuri, and the chefs say that he has departed, but Luffy smells donuts from inside the mochi house. To the chef's surprise, he runs away from the house, but they quickly become horrified when he runs back, having burned all of his excess calories, and destroys a large section of the house with a single punch.
On Cacao Island, the wedding cake's creation is going steady with no issue, and Sanji believes that they will finish it in time. Pudding works hard to focus on her task without getting distracted by Sanji, and is tested when she gets jealous by him complimenting Chiffon. Meanwhile, Charlotte Oven draws closer to Cacao Island, intending to check on the wedding cake's development.
Back in the Mirro-World, Luffy and the chefs discover Katakuri lying on his back and singing as he blissfully eats donuts with his large mouth. When Katakuri spots Luffy above him, he immediately becomes enraged, and his chefs run away in fear. Katakuri approaches them in great fury, and impales one of them with Mogura. The other chefs try to plead with Katakuri, promising not to tell anyone, but Katakuri ends up misinterpreting one statement as an insult against his mouth, causing him to make his arms square-shaped and hit the chefs into the wall with devastating power. He then turns his attention toward Luffy, and overwhelms him with his superior Busoshoku Haki as he pummels him into the ground. However, as Luffy gets up, he manages to use his Kenbunshoku Haki to dodge Katakuri's punch and kick him in the jaw, much to his surprise. He then succeeds in dodging further attacks, and starts figuring out how Katakuri's power works as he activates Gear 4. The enraged Katakuri creates tendrils of mochi out of the ground and assaults Luffy with them, but Luffy manages to avoid them and Katakuri is unable to keep up with him as he is hit by Luffy's Kong Gun and gets sent flying.

Luffy manages to hit Katakuri while in Gear 4, sending him rocketing into the wall. Seizing the advantage as he continues assaulting the Sweet Commander, Luffy states that he has figured out Katakuri's powers. He remembers the beginning of his training on Rusukaina, where Rayleigh explained the abilities of Kenbunshoku and Busoshoku Haki. Luffy has realized now that there is nothing out of the ordinary with Katakuri's Devil Fruit; the Sweet Commander had simply been using his Kenbunshoku Haki to move his body out of the way up until now, and now that this has been nullified, his strong Busoshoku Haki is unable to withstand Gear 4. Katakuri continues to be hit and sent flying by Luffy's attacks, but with Brulee's words about his back never touching the ground fresh in his mind, he does everything in his power to stay on his feet, and at one point he even has to use his head to bounce off the ground.
However, Katakuri eventually regains his focus, and when Luffy attacks him, he confirms that Luffy's understanding of his abilities is correct as he foresees where the attacks will land, transforms the body parts that will be attacked into mochi, and changes the shape of those parts to dodge the attacks. With his composure back, Katakuri now regains the advantage, and he traps Luffy's outstretched arm in his stomach as he recognizes how the Straw Hat managed to defeat his brother Cracker. He then creates two donut-shaped mochi pieces from the ground and forms them into giant rectangular arms, which he controls remotely with his own arms. He then uses these giant arms to deliver a devastating strike to Luffy that manages to injure him in Gear 4.
On Cacao Island, Pudding receives a call from Brulee, who checks in on the cake and reveals that she has overheard the Straw Hats' plan. Outside of the factory, meanwhile, the citizens are shocked to see Pound approaching them. Pound wishes to enter and see his daughter Chiffon, but the citizens push him back due to Pudding's wishes. Brulee tells Pudding that the Straw Hats are planning to reunite with Luffy on Cacao Island at 1 AM, but they will have no luck in doing so as she reveals that Luffy is fighting Katakuri in the Mirro-World and will thus surely die. Even if the Straw Hats get to Cacao Island earlier, they will be intercepted by Oven's army which has just arrived. Oven is told by the Choco Police that he cannot enter the Sweets Factory, which he accepts, and he then spots Pound knocking on the door trying to get in. Oven recognizes his former stepfather and punches him, and Pound pleads his former stepson for mercy. However, Oven states that disposing of Pound is necessary, as Big Mom will be coming to Cacao Island and would not be happy to see him. Inside the factory, Pudding expresses worry to Sanji about Luffy going against the undefeated Katakuri, but Sanji only responds with confidence that Katakuri will take his first loss today as Luffy continues charging at the Sweet Commander.

In the Mirro-World, Luffy is intent on beating Katakuri, but Katakuri matches Gear 4 with his Chikara Mochi punches, and Luffy is once again unable to hit him at all. Katakuri binds Luffy with strands of mochi around his body, and assaults him with tendrils of mochi from the ground. Luffy then finds himself overwhelmed as Katakuri creates several remote arms, and is unable to dodge Chikara Mochi for long as he is punched into the wall. On Cacao Island, Sanji reaffirms to Pudding that Luffy will beat Katakuri and their only job is to make the cake, which she resumes doing with great enthusiasm.
Meanwhile, Amande, Mondee, and Effilee arrive at Nuts Island after hearing about it being under threat from Big Mom. Amande watches as the cake-crazed Big Mom lands on the island and begins tearing apart buildings looking for the wedding cake, which horrifies her and Perospero. Back in the Mirro-World, Katakuri predicts that Gear 4 will soon wear off, which ends up greatly benefiting Luffy as he finds out and immediately starts running away. Katakuri transforms his entire body into mochi and slithers on the ground at a very fast speed right as Gear 4 wears off, and Luffy struggles to keep his distance from Katakuri as he now needs 10 minutes before he can use Haki again. Katakuri assaults Luffy with Chikara Mochi, and he struggles to dodge it. However, he then spots Brulee around a corner, and grows ecstatic as he grabs onto her and jumps through one of the mirrors. Katakuri is aghast that Brulee left herself open to that, and attempts to grab them before they escape, but is too late and ends up breaking the mirror instead. Luffy and Brulee end up in a house on Nuts Island, and Luffy's plan to rest there for 10 minutes is cut short when the rampaging Big Mom tears the house apart. There, Luffy and Brulee watch in shock as Big Mom tears apart Nuts Island while Perospero and Amande try to stop her.
On Whole Cake Island, Mont-d'Or receives a call from Custard to report that her ship has lost its pursuit of the Fire Tank Pirates. Custard reveals that she has not gotten any signals from the Territorial Sea Slugs, which shocks Mont-d'Or as he is facing the same issue with the Straw Hats pursuit, and he wonders what has happened to them. On the Nostra Castello, Bege wonders why more Big Mom Pirates are not pursuing them, and Vito points out that the Territorial Sea Slugs do not seem to be operating and connecting with the crew's Den Den Mushi as they normally would. Bege commands his crew to take the ship on the shortest route to Cacao Island, where they will pick up Chiffon. On the Sunny, the Straw Hats notice that they are not being pursued either, and Jinbe wonders if Aladine and the Sun Pirates made it out safely. Back on Whole Cake Island, Mont-d'Or receives a report that the Territorial Sea Slugs are nowhere to be found, much to his shock and anger. Deep in the ocean, the Sea Slugs have gathered around Charlotte Praline, as she sings to entrance them and prevent them from doing their jobs, and Aladine hopes that this will help Jinbe.
In response to this turn of events, Mont-d'Or gathers up several Tarte fleets from all across Totto Land, as well as the Queen Mama Chanter. The thousands of Big Mom Pirates on these ships are ordered to find and pursue the Straw Hats, the Fire Tank Pirates, and the Sun Pirates. Back on Cacao Island, one of the WCI 31 is on the verge of death due to pure happiness from eating Sanji's completed Simsim whipped cream. Chiffon's chiffon cake and Pudding's chocolate icing are finished as well, and Sanji notes that they are making good time. He decides to bring the ingredients out to a ship and construct the cake while they sail toward the Sunny, and gets excited to deliver it to Big Mom.

On Nuts Island, Perospero and Amande try to stop the rampaging Big Mom from destroying the island when Perospero sees Luffy and Brulee right below him and Big Mom. He points Big Mom to Luffy, and she throws a large section of the peanut tower at the Straw Hat, forcing him to run away with Brulee in tow. Perospero creates a Candy Wall, and Luffy tries to break it, but his Gear 3 punches are ineffective without Haki. Perospero surrounds Luffy with the Candy Wall as Amande appears behind him and attempts to cut him with Shirauo, but Luffy dodges the strike and pulls himself and Brulee over the wall, leaving Amande trapped. Perospero then transforms the wall into a slug moving toward Luffy, and Big Mom jumps on it as she demands her wedding cake from Luffy.
The Candy Slug ends up causing even more devastation to Nuts Island, and Perospero and Big Mom lose sight of Luffy. Luffy runs through the street, intending to find somewhere to rest until he regains his Haki and resumes his fight against Katakuri. However, he accidentally drops Brulee, and she hides inside a chunk of a fallen building, gleeful that Luffy will not find her. However, when Luffy calls her "Branch", she inadvertently pops up to remind him of her name, causing him to recapture her and tie her up. With Brulee on his back now, Luffy heads into a building and tries to jump through a mirror, but Charlotte Effilee shoots it before he can. Effilee shoots at Luffy, but his body bounces the bullets back at her, and he manages to lose her by pulling himself and Brulee up to a roof. However, he is then confronted by Charlotte Mondee, who tries to attack him with her sword. Luffy responds by putting Brulee in the path of her sword, preventing her from attacking him. Eventually, Mondee does unleash an attack, but Luffy dodges it and it causes the building below him to collapse. Luffy resumes running down the street with Brulee in tow, but Big Mom sees him and unleashes a devastating attack with Napoleon.
On Cacao Island, Sanji takes glasses from a chef as he disguises himself in order to head out of the Sweets Factory. The wedding cake is brought out, and the citizens marvel at it and cheer for Pudding and Chiffon. Meanwhile, Pound looks at the procession from behind some foliage, and is delighted when he sees his daughter Chiffon. Oven then arrives to stop the cake, wondering why Pudding is taking it out to sea when Big Mom is headed for Cacao Island. Pudding argues that she does not want to risk Big Mom damaging Cacao Island, and Oven agrees with this and allows her to proceed. However, he attacks Chiffon and throws her to the ground, intending to punish her for her role in Bege's treachery against Big Mom. Pudding wants to stop Oven, but Sanji says that she will make herself a traitor too if she does, although he is unsure how he can intervene either.
Chiffon struggles to get up after her brother's attack, but she is intent on fulfilling her goal to let Nami and the Straw Hats escape safely, and she makes it clear to Oven that she will be going to finish the cake. In response, Oven grabs her by the neck and prepares to execute her, and Sanji realizes that he needs to do something. However, he then sees Pound charging toward Oven to free Chiffon, and Oven drops her to attack him. Sanji then seizes the opportunity to go and kick Oven in the face at high speed, right as he was about to clash with Pound. Oven is sent flying into a building, and Sanji brings Chiffon back to the cart. Pound wonders if he really sent Oven flying, but Oven knows he did not as he gets up and punches his former stepfather into a building. Pudding hides Chiffon under a blanket, but Oven then returns to the cart and quickly finds her. He prepares to burn Chiffon to death despite Pudding's pleas, when he receives a call. One of the Big Mom Pirates reports to him that they are chasing Bege and the Fire Tank Pirates towards Cacao Island, which delights Oven. The Nostra Castello draws closer and closer to Cacao Island, with Bege coming right for Chiffon.

On Nuts Island, Big Mom launches a devastating Ikoku attack at Luffy, but he manages to escape into a mirror with Brulee just in time. He tries to rest in the Mirro-World, but Brulee calls out to Katakuri to rescue her, causing him to find them. Katakuri reaches out to grab Brulee, and just barely comes up short as Luffy manages to jump through another mirror. Mont-d'Or's group on Whole Cake Island then hears reports from different islands about Luffy being spotted, until finally Luffy and Brulee make it to a house where they are all alone. Brulee wonders why Luffy does not just escape to Cacao Island, revealing that the Big Mom Pirates found out about his crew's plan. However, Luffy wants to fight Katakuri, and he realizes that Kenbunshoku Haki can deplete just like Busoshoku Haki can. However, rather than attempt to deplete Katakuri's Haki, he instead remembers Rayleigh teaching him that Haki grows stronger when one faces strong opponents, and he decides to strengthen his own Haki against Katakuri until he reaches the Sweet Commander's level.
On Cacao Island, Oven contacts Bege as the Nostra Castello continues heading for the island while under heavy pursuit from the Tartes. Oven tells Bege to stand down or else he will kill Chiffon, but Chiffon tells her husband and crew to leave her, thanking them for being her only true family. Oven responds by attacking her, and the Fire Tank Pirates are distressed as they hear her cries through the Den Den Mushi. Bege agrees to meet Oven at the coast, and he calms down Pez as Oven cockily tells Chiffon that this will be the last time she sees her new family. However, Bege shoots an explosive shot that hits Oven square in the face, sending him flying off the cart carrying the cake, and he tells Pez that this is his way of life as his crew cheers and Chiffon weeps in joy.
Meanwhile, the Sunny crew finds themselves pursued by the Big Mom Pirates. The crew rushes to man their battle stations, and Chopper looks around for Carrot. He finds her on the crow's nest, and struggles to get her attention as she is transfixed on the sky. She then asks him if there will be a full moon tonight.
Back on Cacao Island, Sanji is ready to go along with whatever Bege has planned, but wonders what he will do next as the Nostra Castello is surrounded by Tartes and is still heading for the coast at full speed, with the Big Mom Pirates waiting to meet him there. At the same time, Oven pulls himself up and begins to heat up in a fit of rage. He and his crew brace themselves to attack, but to their surprised, the Nostra Castello speeds up until it hits the coast. Bege then reveals that it is an amphibious ship that can travel on land, and its tank treads take it up onto the island, where it rolls toward Chiffon's group. As the Fire Tank Pirates gun down the Big Mom Pirates, Bege tells Chiffon's group to bring the cake onboard, which scares them since they have no idea how to do that. However, Sanji responds by kicking the cart up into the air, and he tells Bege to make room for it to land on the ship.

Katakuri continues to stand in solitude in the Mirro-World, noting that ten minutes have passed since Luffy left. He begins to expect that Luffy will not return, but to his surprise he then sees the pirate approaching him. Activating his Busoshoku Haki, Luffy charges toward Katakuri and resumes attacking him. The start of the battle goes as it did before, with Luffy being unable to hit Katakuri and getting punished for it. Katakuri asks Luffy why he did not run away, saying there is no shame in running away from him, but Luffy's fighting spirit does not waver.
Meanwhile, the Nostra Castello continues rolling through Cacao Island. Sanji successfully gets the wedding cake ingredients onto the ship, and Bege frees the seal pulling the cart before he, Pez, and his crew reunite with Chiffon. Oven stands the way of the Nostra Castello, intending to get back at Bege and stop it, but he is easily run over. Pez then grows happy as he notices his grandfather Pound waving at him and Chiffon from nearby, and Pound is happy to see his daughter and grandson, although Chiffon does not know who he is. Bege decides to cut through Chocolat Town to leave the island from the southeast coast, and Pudding allows him to do that, saying the chocolate houses they destroy can be rebuilt. The Nostra Castello rolls through the town, and the Fire Tank Pirates engage in a firefight with the Big Mom Pirates. The Big Mom Pirates are prevented from using heavy artillery in order to protect the wedding cake, and the Nostra Castello makes it back to the ocean and sets sail for the Thousand Sunny.
Sanji thanks Bege for rescuing them, but Bege replies that he had no intention of saving him. The pirates and chefs then notice that the temperature is rising as the ocean starts to boil and fish begin to die. They look toward Cacao Island and see Oven heating the water with his Devil Fruit, and everyone worries as the increase in temperature threatens to ruin the cake ingredients. The boiling ocean also damages the ship, preventing its treads from rolling. However, Pound then rushes in and hits Oven in the head with a club. The blow only angers Oven, but it does cause him to pull his body out of the water as he angrily turns to confront his former stepfather. As he tries interceding with Oven, Pound sees Chiffon and Pez again, who are happy with their new family in the Fire Tank Pirates. Pound regrets not being able to be a part of Chiffon's life, remembering 26 years ago when Big Mom exiled him right after she and Lola were born, not even allowing him to hold them. He hopes that Chiffon did not have a hard life, being unaware of the abuse Big Mom gave her due to her resemblance to Lola. He then shouts at Chiffon to congratulate her on her marriage right as Oven strikes him from behind with a flaming blade, and Pez starts crying as Chiffon wonders what the shout was about.
Meanwhile, the Sunny crew finds themselves pursued not only by a fleet led by Charlotte Bavarois, but by Big Mom herself as well. The fleet shoots cannonball homies at the Sunny, but Big Mom's insanity renders the homies easily confused, and the Straw Hats redirect them away from the ship. Bavarois grows frustrated as the Sunny continues to outrace his fleet thanks to Jinbe, but the Big Mom Pirates then become happy as another fleet emerges toward the Sunny from the front, surrounding the Straw Hats.

In the Mirro-World, Katakuri wonders why Luffy chose to face death by returning to confront him again, asking if he intended to subordinate himself to the Big Mom Pirates. Luffy attempts to strike Katakuri as he states that he came to beat the Sweet Commander, and Katakuri says that that is not an option as he dodges all the attacks and prepares to respond with his own attack. Katakuri overpowers Luffy in their clash, and creates mochi arms with Muso Donuts again. Remembering Rayleigh's teaching about how Haki grows stronger when one faces stronger opponents, Luffy attempts to concentrate and predict Katakuri's attack. However, he is hit head-on by the mochi arms and slammed into the wall. Katakuri begins to grow exasperated with Luffy, whom he repeatedly states will never be able to beat him despite Luffy's unwavering drive.
Out at sea, the Sunny crew is confronted by Daifuku's fleet while being chased by Big Mom and Bavarois' fleet, causing them to be surrounded. Bavarois finds out that a fleet led by Smoothie, who is accompanied by Citron and Cinnamon, has come to back the Big Mom Pirates up as well. The Sunny crew finds out that Daifuku is the one who has arrived, and he contacts Perospero to ask for permission to shoot down the Sunny. Perospero grants it, knowing that Big Mom will go to Cacao Island and eat Pudding's cake. He then notices that Big Mom is becoming thinner. Daifuku gets his fleet into position and orders his subordinates to shoot non-living cannonballs due to Big Mom making the cannonball homies unstable. He then waits for the Sunny to get into firing range, and the Sunny crew decides to continue moving forward, preparing to fight. Carrot looks at the moon, and she remembers Pedro telling her that everyone's time will come someday. She then tells the crew to leave the fleet to her, stating that she will use the power of the full moon. Jinbe asks her if she can control Sulong, and she confirms this, saying Pedro taught her.
Carrot then gazes at the full moon and activates Sulong, causing her hair and fur to grow longer and her eyes to turn red as she gains a feral yet regal image. Daifuku's crew notices Carrot and are shocked as they recognize Sulong, and the Straw Hats are equally captivated. Carrot then leaps down toward the ocean, but to the Straw Hats' surprise, she is able to fly over the water toward Daifuku's fleet. Landing on Daifuku's ship, she overwhelms his crew with her speed and takes several of them out at a time with powerful Electro blasts. Daifuku asserts that she will not stop his fleet from taking out the Sunny, but in the blink of an eye Carrot rips off the helm of his ship, leaving Daifuku aghast as his ship loses control. Carrot then leaps toward one of the Tartes as Daifuku summons his genie to attack her. However, Carrot dodges the genie's strike, which slices several Tartes in half as collateral damage. Daifuku's subordinates call out in desperation as his genie continues to attack Carrot, missing every time and causing more damage to the fleet.
The Straw Hats watch Carrot's performance in awe, and Nami realizes that this is the minks' trump card that Inuarashi mentioned on Zou. Jinbe reveals that by gazing at the full moon, the minks lose control of their senses and become more feral and dangerous. However, due to this lack of control, Sulong is a very dangerous ability as the minks can tire themselves out to the point of death within hours if they are unable to deactivate it. Brook then prepares to go and provide backup to Carrot, and runs on the water toward Daifuku's fleet. Bavarois' fleet then comes within striking range of the Sunny and begins firing at it, forcing the remaining crew to defend against it.

After he pummels Luffy into the wall with Chikara Mochi, Katakuri wonders why he is not giving up. Luffy charges toward him once again and tries to attack, but Katakuri dodges everything Luffy throws at him and successfully counterattacks. He then creates several Muso Donuts and assaults Luffy with many Chikara Mochi punches. Luffy does his best to dodge most of them, but is eventually caught and punched into the wall. Katakuri is then surprised as he foresees what Luffy's plan is, and Luffy concentrates in order to utilize his strengthening Haki.
Meanwhile, as Bavarois' fleet continues pursuing the Thousand Sunny, Perospero and Bavarois become worried as Big Mom grows thinner and weaker, resulting in her falling to her knees and panting. Perospero states that Big Mom's hunger cravings have never lasted this long before, and what will happen to her next is completely unknown. Big Mom calls for Zeus and Prometheus, with Napoleon sending a signal to them. The two homies receive this signal, and race through the air to rejoin Big Mom, with Prometheus reprimanding Zeus for letting Nami use him against their creator and crew. Bavarois then reports to Perospero that Pudding's wedding cake has come out to sea, but Perospero is horrified to find out that it is on Bege's ship, and he panics as he can no longer trust that the cake will help them.
On the Nostra Castello, Sanji oversees the addition of the icing on the cake when Bege's men bring him some poison to put in the cake. Sanji immediately kicks the poison overboard, causing him to get into an argument with Bege, who views the cake as a great opportunity to assassinate Big Mom. However, Sanji responds that he will feed anyone who wants food, and do nothing more. Bege counters that keeping Big Mom alive is foolish, but Sanji then sticks a spoon of cream into his mouth. The sweetness of the cream causes Bege to collapse, which causes his crew to confront Sanji, but they back off when they see their captain is on the verge of dying from happiness. The smell of the cake becomes so great that a few chefs start to pass out, and Pudding swoons over Sanji's ability.
Meanwhile, Carrot flies from ship to ship while in Sulong form, tearing off their helms and rendering them uncontrollable. She is aided by Daifuku's genie, which destroys Daifuku's own ships in its attempts to attack her, and eventually Daifuku's entire fleet is disabled. Brook then reaches the fleet, and puts Daifuku's men to sleep. Carrot grows exhausted as the transformation takes its toll on her, and is faced with the oncoming blade of Daifuku's genie. However, Brook manages to pull her away just in time, and he returns to the water as he carries Carrot back to the Sunny. Carrot reveals that she can transform back into her normal self by covering her eyes, and she is given a hero's welcome upon her return to the Sunny. As she is brought belowdeck to rest, the Sunny goes full steam ahead with Daifuku's fleet no longer in front of it. However, Zeus and Prometheus then return to Big Mom, and she jumps onto Zeus with agility that Perospero and Bavarois have never seen before. Big Mom has Napoleon transform into a sword and Prometheus ignites her hair as she flies toward the Sunny and jumps on it. Wanting to find her wedding cake, she rips open part of the upper deck, and the Straw Hats stare at her in terror as Jinbe tells them to prepare to abandon the Sunny.

Inside the Mirro-World, Katakuri continues attacking Luffy as the latter tries to predict Katakuri's next move. Luffy states that he cannot quite see the future, but Katakuri can.
At the Thousand Sunny, Big mom asks where the cake is. Jinbe tells her that it is not on the ship, but Big Mom disagrees, saying that her son would not lie and if he did, she would have to kill him. Perospero panics as he realizes she has remembered. Big Mom then uses her Cognac attack. Jinbe blocks the attack for a while before he is sent flying. Big Mom attacks the ship, and Nami notices she is destroying the room that Carrot is in. She tries to stop Big Mom, but she attacks her. Luckily, Chopper stops her with Guard Point, and Big Mom states that she will add Chopper and Brook to her collection after she has eaten. The sail catches fire from Prometheus. Jinbe returns and puts out the fire with a sea current. He then hits Big Mom in the stomach with a Fish-Man Karate move, knocking her off the ship but Zeus saves her. Jinbe orders the crew to speed up, but Big Mom catches up again and Nami tries to tempt Zeus. Zeus is briefly enticed but then shouts at her saying that the same trick will not work twice before trying to electrocute her. Chopper cries out and then Brook walks out of the lightning, saying that he does not have any flesh so it does not affect him. He then asks to see Big Mom's panties, and everybody looks shocked. Suddenly, Brook jumps up and does Yahatzu Giri on Zeus. Nami then discharges Zeus and Big Mom is electrocuted.

Mirrors are shown breaking on Wheat Island and citizens are getting scared that if the battle continues longer, there will be no mirrors left on the island, before switching to the battle itself. Katakuri continues to overwhelm Luffy, but Luffy is not giving up.
Back on Whole Cake Island, Mont d'Or and Niwatori are shown talking about how long the fight has been going on, showing the time as 9:30 pm, which is six and a half hours since the start of the fight. Stussy and Morgans come into view, with Morgans saying how it would be big news if the Straw Hats got away. Stussy then reveals that it was the Tamatebako that destroyed the chateau.
After capturing Zeus, Nami tells him to serve under her or die. Zeus accepts the former option.
Back with Katakuri and Luffy, Katakuri is battering Luffy, then we are introduced to a new character - Charlotte Flampe, who admires her older brother. She boasts about how she won the best younger sister award, and how she wants Katakuri's affection. She and her subordinates try to kill Luffy, but her sniper can't get a clear shot. As a response to this, she stabs him in the head with a fork, showing how she still carries a spoiled attitude at the age of 15.

Luffy manages to predict Katakuri's attack and counter it, which surprises Katakuri as he realizes that Luffy's Kenbunshoku Haki is developing. However, Katakuri manages to lay more hits on Luffy after this, and as Luffy attempts to see whether Katakuri will attack with Mogura or his mochi donuts next, Katakuri notes that Luffy's precognition is not as developed as his own and attacks with both. Luffy does his best to dodge the attacks, but his fatigue begins catching up with him and, despite occasional good moves, he continues to be overwhelmed. Luffy eventually ends up lying on the ground, and Katakuri tells him not to get up, saying that the Big Mom Pirates had heard about his plan to meet with his crew on Cacao Island and are lying in wait for him there if he somehow manages to emerge from this. However, to Katakuri's surprise, Luffy does not see this as a problem. As the two of them continue fighting, Flampe believes the fight will finish soon as she aims at the unsuspecting Luffy with her blowgun.
On the Nostra Castello, one of the chefs reveals that he neglected to add frosting roses to the top of the wedding cake, and could not do so now that the cake was otherwise complete. The chefs begin to panic, but Sanji then steps in and offers to to it. Using Sky Walk, he flies to the top of the cake and adds the frosting roses perfectly, causing Pudding, Chiffon, and the chefs to celebrate. With the cake now completed, Sanji looks forward to seeing his crew again, but Pudding's sadistic side comes out and suggests that the crew might already have been killed, much to the horror of her more pleasant personality when she is reprimanded by Chiffon. She, Chiffon, and the chefs then collapse from exhaustion, and Bege looks forward to Big Mom eating the cake, saying there is no need to poison it as he hopes that Big Mom will die from its deliciousness.
Meanwhile, Big Mom catches back up to the Sunny as she flies on Prometheus. Chopper activates Monster Point to deal with her, but is quickly overwhelmed and injured by Big Mom's sword strikes with Napoleon. Prometheus breathes fire at the Sunny, forcing both Nami and Brook to work to stop the oncoming flames. The Sunny crew refuses to go down without a fight, but Prometheus then expands massively, causing him to torch the Sunny with his heat, and Jinbe says that the sun homie is too big to stop with sea water. All Chopper can do is try to coerce Big Mom to come back down so he can pull her with him into the ocean, but Nami then notices the Nostra Castello approaching, and Big Mom catches the scent of the wedding cake. The Sunny crew rejoices as she heads toward it, and Bege prepares to lure her toward him. Sanji agrees that he can do whatever he likes to her after she eats the cake, and he prepares to head to the Sunny with Pudding on Rabiyan. Pudding bids farewell to Chiffon, and is happy to see her sister living happily with people she loves. Chiffon tells Pudding to not lose the source of her happiness, causing Pudding to become tense as she looks at Sanji. She and Sanji then fly off toward the Sunny, with Rabiyan going fast enough to avoid detection. Sanji reunites with his crewmates immediately after reaching the Sunny, and wonders where Carrot and Pedro are, to which Brook lies that they are both resting belowdeck. Meanwhile, Perospero notes that this situation is intended to split up the Big Mom Pirates. He looks at the cake and gets worried about it, knowing that Big Mom needs to eat it to save everyone from her rampage, but also knowing they will all be in danger if the cake turns out to be poisoned and kills her. He then receives a call from Bege as the Sunny crew begins to head out to Cacao Island.

Luffy continues fighting Katakuri in the Mirro-World, and Katakuri's sister Flampe looks on as she prepares to shoot Luffy with her blowgun. Luffy keeps attempting to strengthen his Kenbunshoku Haki and foresee Katakuri's attacks, and although he is not on Katakuri's level yet and continues getting pummeled as a result, he is developing it very rapidly. Katakuri recognizes this, and as he realizes he needs to finish Luffy off quickly, Flampe successfully shoots Luffy in the leg with a blowdart. The dart causes Luffy's leg to numb, rendering him unable to dodge as Katakuri attacks him with Mochi Tsuki, which results in Mogura dealing a gruesome wound to his side. Katakuri expresses his disappointment in Luffy while Flampe laughs in secrecy, and although Luffy manages to get back up, he is utterly overpowered by Katakuri's kick. Flampe delights in what she did, imagining that Katakuri will be proud of her afterwards and think of her as his favorite little sister. Luffy tries to dodge further strikes from Mogura, but is unable to get back in the fight as Katakuri pummels him with multiple mochi fists created from Muso Donuts, leaving him unmoving in a crater on the ground.
On Whole Cake Island, Mont-d'Or expresses his disbelief that the Whole Cake Chateau's collapse was the Straw Hats' doing, and Count Niwatori says that if they are this good at planning, they might pull off something unexpected. Swearing to not let that happen, Mont-d'Or contacts the Tartes, telling all of them to go to Cacao Island and bring an end to the Straw Hats. Out at sea, Bege calls Perospero, and the former says that they will put an end to Big Mom's hunger pangs with the cake, pointing out that Pudding made it. Perospero is still suspicious that the Fire Tank Pirates will try to assassinate Big Mom again, and tells Bavarois that their fleet will pursue Big Mom and Bege while Smoothie's fleet continues pursuing the Straw Hats. Perospero contacts Smoothie to tell her about this plan, saying that her fleet should sink the Straw Hats before they reach Cacao Island. Smoothie, her sisters Citron and Cinnamon, and her subordinates then prepare to attack.
While sailing away from Big Mom, Bege says that he cares more about escaping than assassinating Big Mom, but Chiffon reminds him they have a debt to pay to the Straw Hats and so need to keep them safe from Big Mom. Meanwhile, the Sunny crew finds out from Sanji that the Big Mom Pirates know about their plan to go to Cacao Island, and although they are on track to get there in time, their situation is made worse as Smoothie's ship comes and confronts them. However, Sanji gets an idea to rescue Luffy from the Big Mom Pirates' assured lockdown of the island. On Cacao Island, scores of Tarte ships arrive to besiege it; the people who arrive are skeptical that this much force is necessary and some do not even believe Luffy will escape Katakuri and the Mirro-World, but Oven points them to Mont-d'Or, who tells them via Den Den Mushi about the Straw Hats' responsibility for destroying the Chateau. Oven tells his crew to destroy every mirror on Cacao Island, so that if Luffy arrives he will come from the lone mirror remaining right in front of them. The people are reluctant to destroy their valuable mirrors, but Oven says they can throw them into water, threatening to kill the families of anyone who does not comply.
Back in the Mirro-World, Katakuri stands over the unmoving Luffy, lamenting at how the pirate had faltered right as he was starting to respect him. Luffy is still alive, however, and remembers training his Kenbunshoku Haki with Silvers Rayleigh. A blindfolded Luffy had celebrated dodging one of Rayleigh's strikes, saying it felt like he had imagined the attack coming. Rayleigh replied that Kenbunshoku Haki is an extension of the imagination, but Luffy needed to develop it to become instinctual. Luffy then wakes up and pulls himself up, much to Katakuri and Flampe's surprise. Flampe attempts to attack Luffy again, shooting a numbing needle ten times as strong as the last one. Luffy manages to see it coming and dodge it, but ends up falling over afterwards, causing Flampe and her subordinates to laugh uncontrollably. Despite their attempts to subdue it, Katakuri ends up overhearing them, and begins to realize that he and Luffy are not alone.

Flampe and her subordinates continue laughing as Luffy weakly tries to get up after being utterly pummeled by Katakuri, to the point where they do not even attempt to conceal themselves anymore. Katakuri notices Flampe's group, and then realizes that she assisted him in injuring Luffy. He walks toward her, and as she imagines him praising her for what she did, Katakuri in reality is angry at her interference, thinking that it would make his victory cheap. Katakuri reaches Flampe and proceeds to stab himself with Mogura in the same place he struck Luffy, which horrifies Flampe as a little of his blood lands on her face. Katakuri then removes his scarf and shouts at his sister to not patronize him and Luffy and interfere in their fight. Flampe's shock quickly turns into derision, as she mocks her brother for his display of weakness as well as his mouth, comparing it to a pelican eel's. Her subordinates get in on the mockery, and they decide to expose his appearance to the rest of Totto Land to make everyone lose their respect for him. Although he remembers being bullied and receiving the exact same insults for his mouth as a child, Katakuri simply turns around and heads back to Luffy without saying a word as Flampe's group continues jeering and takes pictures of him. Katakuri then confronts Luffy again, and the two of them agree that the people on the sidelines are annoying as Flampe threatens to shoot both of them with her blowgun. They then each unleash their Haoshoku Haki, causing Flampe and her subordinates to be knocked out.
Meanwhile, the Fire Tank Pirates worry about Big Mom being in hot pursuit of their ships, but Bege is confident that they can outrun her especially since they have nearly reached Liqueur Island. However, Chiffon then says that they cannot go there, as it is too close to Cacao Island and would give Big Mom time to get there before the Straw Hats manage to escape. Chiffon says they should go on to Funwari Island instead, and with her intent on repaying her debt to the Straw Hats even if it costs her her life, Bege agrees to his wife's request and changes course to Funwari Island, much to the horror of his crew. Elsewhere, Sanji and Pudding depart for Cacao Island on Rabiyan, and Carrot comes out after waking up from her sleep. However, her talk with the Sunny crew is cut short as Smoothie unleashes a blast of water at the ship, forcing Jinbe to steer it out of harm's way. By stabbing her subordinates, Smoothie absorbs the liquid inside them and becomes much bigger. Despite the pleas by her sisters, she is intent on sinking the Sunny, and the Sunny crew goes to the crow's nest to help Jinbe dodge her water blasts. Jinbe manages to use his skills to dodge them all, annoying Smoothie.
Back in the Mirro-World, Katakuri removes his vest as he prepares to fight Luffy again. He apologizes for Flampe's intrusion, but Luffy does not pay much mind to it since to him, pirate fights are rarely fair. Katakuri then says that he no longer considers Luffy to be below him, which Luffy likes hearing as the two of them charge at each other. Katakuri lands the first blow on Luffy, but Luffy keeps himself steady before using Kenbunshoku Haki to land a blow square on Katakuri's face.

Luffy and Katakuri continue fighting. Each tries to gain an advantage as they work to overcome the other's attacks, and Luffy, with his Kenbunshoku Haki at a level higher than ever before, is ultimately able to foresee Katakuri's attacks as well and perfectly match the Sweet Commander's attacks. Katakuri manages to get the upper hand briefly by using Kuri Mochi to rapidly shoot mochi spikes, but as the two clash again, Luffy remembers his training on Rusukaina. He had difficulty dodging Rayleigh's Haki-imbued stick swings while blindfolded in order to train his Kenbunshoku Haki, and Rayleigh told him he could not eat until he had dodged 100 times. Night fell, and as Luffy lay hungry on the ground, some of the animals he tamed tried to bring him food, but he turned them down. However, he asked them to help him with his training, and they brought several other animals to attack him and develop his Haki. A giant, enraged lion then appeared, and Luffy initially had trouble dealing with it, but got close to it and realized something was hurting it. After the lion collapsed, Luffy found a stick lodged in its body and pulled it out. Rayleigh then came back and resumed Luffy's training, and Luffy successfully dodged 100 blows, even the last one when Rayleigh attempted to hide his presence completely, which Luffy had been able to sense because he felt his mentor smile.
Back in the present, Katakuri slams Luffy into the ground with a mochi fist and creates several Muso Donuts. Luffy then remembers eating with Rayleigh after completing his Haki training. Rayleigh noted that Luffy seemed to possess an unusual gift to be able to sense the emotions of people and animals. He then told Luffy that a few strong people in the world had advanced enough Kenbunshoku Haki that they could see a bit into the future, and asked Luffy how he would deal with them. Luffy replied that it would depend on their personality, and Rayleigh was intrigued by the answer as he and Luffy went to the next stage of training. In the present, Luffy is able to visualize Katakuri's next move, and is able to perfectly dodge the barrage of mochi punches. Katakuri shifts his attack and is able to overpower Luffy, but Luffy comes right back and lands some hits on the Sweet Commander. Katakuri uses Yaki Mochi to shoot his Haki-hardened mochi fist out, and the fist sends Luffy rocketing all the way through one of the Mirro-World's formations. Luffy gets back up, however, and the two of them exchange blows over and over again until they are both left panting. With neither of them defeated, however, Luffy and Katakuri resume fighting right away.
Meanwhile, Sanji and Pudding fly to Cacao Island, and Pudding's sadistic side is heavily conflicted about her close proximity to Sanji. Sanji makes preparations to get onto the island and rescue Luffy without being seen, and on Cacao Island, several of Oven's brothers and sisters arrive to join his cause. His army now numbers in the thousands, and includes former Sweet Commander Snack, which causes some of the members to deride the excessive force. With slightly less than an hour to go before the Straw Hats' rendezvous time, Katakuri stands over a downed Luffy, and as Luffy gets up once again, the two of them anticipate the rapidly approaching end of their fight. Luffy decides to end it by activating a new form of Gear 4: Snakeman.

After being beaten into the ground by Katakuri, Luffy moves to end the fight and activates a form of Gear 4 known as Snakeman. During his training on Rusukaina, Luffy had shown the abilities of his Boundman form to Rayleigh. However, Rayleigh questioned how effective it was as he hit Luffy with great speed and used his Kenbunshoku Haki to dodge Luffy's attacks. Upon entering Snakeman in the present, Luffy throws a punch straight at Katakuri, who dodges it and is confused about why Luffy seemingly initiated a simple attack. However, the punch then comes and hits Katakuri in the side. Katakuri suffers from some more of these attacks before being able to realize that Luffy is rapidly changing the direction of his punches. When Luffy throws another attack at him, Katakuri is able to read it and attempts to block it, but is ultimately blasted away into a wall as the punch gained momentum the longer it was being thrown. Luffy then assaults Katakuri with rapid punches, but Katakuri transforms into mochi and avoids them as he rolls toward Luffy in a donut-like shape. Upon reaching Luffy, Katakuri transforms back into his human body as he turns one of his arms into a massive spiked mochi club imbued with flaming Busoshoku Haki, and he slams the club into Luffy in a move called Zan Giri Mochi. In addition to being injured, Luffy becomes stuck to the club, and Katakuri spins it around rapidly before slamming it into the ground, leaving Luffy at the bottom of a large crater.
Meanwhile, Sanji and Pudding draw very close to Cacao Island on Rabiyan. Sanji orders Rabiyan to suddenly stop, causing Pudding to almost fly off, but Sanji grabs her. He and Pudding then look through binoculars at the fleet and army gathered on and around the island, noting that there is enough military power to destroy it. They try to think of a way to get ino without being detected, and decide to have Rabiyan quickly fly low to the ocean to get past everyone's radar. Nitro binds Sanji and Pudding to Rabiyan to prevent them from falling off, and Pudding becomes infatuated with the idea of holding hands with Sanji. Rabiyan flies very low to the water, preventing anyone on the ships from seeing them, and they successfully make it into the town.
Back in the Mirro-World, Katakuri tells Luffy that any attack the Straw Hat tries to get through to him will only be met with brutal punches from him in response, knowing that Luffy can still hear him. Luffy then gets several random thoughts off his chest before leaping out of the hole. Luffy resumes attacking Katakuri, who meets his punches with mochi-infused fists, and the two deliver powerful hits to each other, culminating in Luffy hitting Katakuri square with Gomu Gomu no Jet Culverin while Katakuri hits him with Yaki Mochi. Luffy then unleashes his next attack, a rapid-fire punching move called Gomu Gomu no Black Mamba. Katakuri is initially hit by it, but recovers and manages to dodge it as he moves toward Luffy and kicks him with the spike on his boot, sending him crashing into the wall. Luffy and Katakuri then say that this next exchange of attacks will be their last. Sometime in the past, Rayleigh went to Shakky's Rip-off Bar, and Shakky wondered how Luffy was doing. She recalled Rayleigh saying that only those who live in the present could shape a new epoch, and Rayleigh reflected on this as he hoped for Luffy to surpass his captain Roger. Back in the present, Katakuri transforms into a mochi donut as he prepares to unleash Zan Giri Mochi again, while Luffy moves his arm around his body and enlarges it in a move called Gomu Gomu no King Cobra. Both attacks hit their mark, resulting in a tremendous clash that rumbles through the Mirro-World.

Right as Luffy and Katakuri hit each other with their final blows, Brulee manages to free herself from her rope bindings. To keep Luffy from escaping the Mirro-World, she decides to run off and join Oven's group on Cacao Island. At 12:28 AM, Oven's army waits for activity to happen, and Newshi ponders the possibility of Luffy beating Katakuri. Oven and several other siblings admonish him, refusing to believe Katakuri could be beaten. However, they do think that Luffy could capture Brulee and run away from Katakuri when his crew arrives at 1 AM, and so are waiting to ambush him. In a nearby alleyway, a hidden Sanji observes the army's movements, saying he will need to move as soon as Luffy comes out of the mirror for them to have a chance of escaping. He tells Pudding that this will be their farewell, and remarks how they met in an odd way. He remembers his experiences with Pudding, from seeing a picture of her for the first time, to resigning himself to marriage with her, to acting through the marriage ceremony in preparation for her attempting to assassinate him, and finally to making the second wedding cake together. Sanji reaches out for Pudding to come to him, and her violent personality briefly manifests and rejects him, causing her kind personality to become distraught. Sanji remarks that even though Pudding started out as his enemy and had once planned to assassinate him, he is still glad she was his fiancee, causing her to burst into tears. After calming down, Pudding asks Sanji for one last favor, and she plucks his cigarette out of his mouth before moving in closer to him.
At 12:37 AM, Luffy and Katakuri's attacks retract, and the ground falls out from underneath Luffy as Snakeman deactivates, leaving him incapacitated at the bottom of a sinkhole. Katakuri stays on his feet for a few seconds longer and says that he will not lose, but ultimately loses consciousness as well and falls forward. On Whole Cake Island at 12:40, Morgans notes that the Straw Hats still have not been caught and remarks that their ever-likelier escape will be a big headline. Mont-d'Or quiets him, saying that the Big Mom Pirates have put aside their pride and have gathered thousands of their forces to take down the Straw Hats. He says that once the Straw Hats are caught, they will be beheaded to serve as an example, and Stussy remarks about his brutality. At 12:43, Big Mom and Prometheus have gotten close enough to the Nostra Castello to start burning its sails, and the Fire Tank Pirates beg Bege to dispose of the cake and flee. However, Bege says that they all came from different places, and now is the time to remain steadfast and die together if necessary, and Chiffon is able to see their destination Funwari Island coming into view.
At 12:45, Smoothie's fleet has stopped attacking the Thousand Sunny, but Jinbe says they will likely resume once the Straw Hats become involved with the occupation on Cacao Island. Brook tries to negotiate with Smoothie, but fails. Nami says that they will make it to Cacao Island at 1 AM on time, but worries that Luffy will not, noting that he will have to use Brulee to escape from the Mirro-World. However, she and the crew continue to believe in him. At 12:47, Luffy pulls himself out of the sinkhole, and struggles to walk as he heads for Brulee. Katakuri then stands up in front of him, and asks Luffy if he will come back and take down Big Mom. Luffy affirms this, declaring that he will become the Pirate King, and Katakuri remarks that he is seeing a ways into the future. The Sweet Commander then falls on his back, defeated, and Luffy puts the hat he received from the Fire Tank Pirates over his face to cover his mouth. Luffy then goes to where he left Brulee, only to see that she is gone. However, he then overhears her wailing over Katakuri's defeat, and comes face-to-face with Pekoms, who has disguised himself as "Nazoms" and captured Brulee. After realizing Luffy knows who he is, Pekoms says that he is going to help him escape to honor the wishes of Pedro's sacrifice, and carries him and Brulee toward the sole mirror to the island. At 12:50, the Straw Hats are very close to Cacao Island, and remark how well-defended it is. With the minutes ticking down until 1:00, Oven has his army prepare their weapons for the ambush.

A man stationed on one of the Big Mom Pirates' ships surrounding Cacao Island sees the Thousand Sunny approaching, and shouts the news to his crewmates around him. The Sunny crew marvels at the massive force gathered on Cacao Island as they continue to be pursued by Smoothie's fleet, which intends on using the fleet around Cacao Island to trap the Sunny. On the island, Oven's army is on high alert for Luffy to emerge from the mirror in front of them, and Sanji impatiently waits for Luffy. In the Mirro-World, Pekoms tells Luffy about how he can activate his Sulong form by staring at the full moon, and says he will do this on Cacao Island to rampage and distract Oven's army. He reveals that nobody can bring him to his senses except for the now-deceased Pedro, but is intent on honoring Pedro's memory by helping Luffy escape. Brulee says that Pekoms and Luffy will be overwhelmed by Oven's army even if Pekoms activates Sulong, but Pekoms ignores her as he carries her and Luffy toward the lone mirror on Cacao Island.
As the clock strikes 1 AM, Pekoms emerges from the mirror holding Brulee, with Luffy nowhere in sight. The members of Oven's army are extremely confused, and Pekoms holds Brulee at gunpoint to keep them at bay while he gazes at the full moon and transforms into a massive, wild beast. However, Oven lights Pekoms' gun on fire to get him to drop it before punching the mink, resulting in Luffy being outed from under Pekoms' costume. Some of the Charlotte Decuplets attack Luffy, and he dodges their strikes by jumping over a building, but Raisin leaps up to him and prepares to strike him with his sword. Sanji then comes and kicks Raisin into a building, and the Big Mom Pirates watch in shock as Sanji carries Luffy through the air. Sanji asks Luffy if he beat Katakuri, which Luffy confirms. The decuplet males then use Geppo to confront Sanji and Luffy in the air, but as Sanji attempts to dodge their strikes, Pekoms unleashes the power of his Sulong and takes out all of the decuplets.
However, in his feral rage, Pekoms ends up attacking Sanji and Luffy as well, but as they look at him after being sent crashing into a roof, he hears Pedro's voice calling out to him, causing him to regain his senses. Pekoms tells Sanji to take Luffy to safety, and the lion mink returns to the ground and resumes attacking Oven's army. However, several of them impale him with spears as Oven orders them to shield his eyes from the full moon, bringing his rampage to an end. Sanji looks back in worry over Pekoms, but his distraction allows Yuen to smash him and Luffy into the ground. The Big Mom Pirates then surround Sanji and Luffy and prepare to shoot them, but their attention is quickly diverted by the Germa Kingdom arriving and attacking their fleet. Ichiji, Niji, Yonji, and Reiju then don their Raid Suits and fly toward the island, and they shield Sanji and Luffy from the Big Mom Pirates' bullets. Sanji wonders what they are doing here, and Ichiji replies that they wanted to give the Big Mom Pirates a crushing blow like the group had given to them at the tea party.

With Ichiji, Niji, Yonji, and Reiju between them and their targets Sanji and Luffy, the Big Mom Pirates open fire on the Vinsmoke siblings. However, the bullets harmlessly bounce off of them, and Ichiji tells Sanji to take Luffy off the island, with the Vinsmokes claiming the Big Mom Pirates as their prey. Oven wonders how they are here, having heard that they were defeated by Nusstorte's army. The Vinsmokes reveal that they defeated the army and tossed them all into the water, stunning Oven's army as well as Mont-d'Or and Niwatori, who are overhearing the exchange through Den Den Mushi. The latter two start panicking, wondering who had called them to falsely proclaim their victory over Germa and unsuccessfully trying to contact Nusstorte's army.
Spurred on by his siblings, Sanji breaks off toward the coast with Luffy, and uses Sky Walk to take to the air. Some of the Charlotte Decuplets fire torpedoes at them, but Ichiji, Niji, and Yonji combine their strength to destroy the projectiles. The Tartes surrounding Cacao Island find themselves under attack by Judge and the Germa Kingdom fleet, and the pirates on Smoothie's ship wonder if they should go help them. However, Smoothie sticks to pursuing the Thousand Sunny, and her crew is joined by Daifuku. On the Sunny, Nami wonders if Germa are their allies or enemies, and the crew is contacted by Sanji. Being unable to get closer to Cacao Island, the crew is tasked by Sanji with staying around the harbor until he can get to them.
Oven's army chases after Sanji and Luffy, and Brulee is intent that they succeed, revealing to everyone in tears that Luffy had beaten the once undefeated Katakuri. This revelation leaves everyone in the army completely aghast, and this shock eventually turns to anger as the Big Mom Pirates seek to avenge their crewmate and brother. Sanji works to avoid their relentless attacks, but is shot in the arm, and an enraged Oven charges ahead and attacks Sanji and Luffy with a flaming naginata. However, Ichiji then comes in and hits Oven and several other Big Mom Pirates with explosive blasts, and he tells Sanji to keep going. Remembering how his brothers attacked him for being weak, Sanji keeps going as Oven's crewmates check on him. Sanji takes to the air again and is confronted by Yuen, but before Yuen can attack with his staff again, Yonji comes in and destroys it before grabbing Yuen and extending his arm to swing the pirate through several buildings, defeating him. One member of the army then shoots a missile at Sanji and Luffy, but Niji comes in and speeds them away, striking down several Big Mom Pirates with his electricity-imbued sword in the process.
After making it out of the town, Niji throws Sanji and Luffy toward the ocean, sending them flying away at a high speed. As Sanji and Luffy fly over the blockade fleet, Brownie tells his men to shoot at them, but they are promptly attacked by Reiju, who uses her poison abilities to take them down and shield Sanji and Luffy from their attacks. She then joins them in midair, and tells Sanji to hold on tight to Luffy, remembering how she freed him from the Germa Kingdom and told him to find people who would appreciate him and his kindness. Sanji and Luffy make it out to sea as the Vinsmokes continue fighting the Big Mom Pirates, and the Sunny crew gets excited as the two of them come into view.

Having escaped from Cacao Island, Sanji flies Luffy through the air toward the Thousand Sunny, but has to dodge cannon fire from the Big Mom Pirates' fleet. They eventually reach the Sunny, and are embraced by their crewmates. The crew is overjoyed to learn that Luffy defeated Katakuri, and Chopper gets to work mending Luffy's injuries, with Sanji leaving his own injury for later. However, the Straw Hats are not out of the clear yet as Smoothie and Daifuku's fleet gets closer to them and harasses them with cannon fire.
In the ruined Peanuts Town on Nuts Island, the citizens and their minister Amande work to rescue anyone in peril from the wreckage. They, along with the citizens of several other Totto Land islands, worry about what might become of them if Big Mom's craving rampage is not stopped. Meanwhile, the Fire Tank Pirates have reached Funwari Island and placed the wedding cake on the coast, but are forced to watch as Prometheus consumes the Nostra Castello with flames, destroying it. Bege then prepares for his crew to leave, but Chiffon insists on staying until the cake is eaten, saying it his her responsibility as Minister of Puff to keep watch over this island. Big Mom leaps off of Prometheus and stands eagerly in front of the cake, and Mont-d'Or contacts Perospero to ask about her status. Bavarois reveals that Perospero has collapsed due to leaving his arm stump untreated for too long, and the weakened Perospero tells Mont-d'Or that the cake has been left for Big Mom. He says that three results could happen: Big Mom dies from poisoning, she does not like the cake and continues rampaging, or she likes the cake and her craving stops. If anything but the third option happens, everyone on Totto Land will die. Mont-d'Or then realizes that Stussy and Morgans are gone and orders for them to be found immediately, not wanting the world to find out if the worst case scenario happens. With Chiffon confident that the cake will satisfy Big Mom, Bege tells Vito and Gotti to look for a ship to escape with while he and the rest of the crew watches the cake's consumption.
Back near Cacao Island, the Sunny continues to be assaulted by Smoothie and Daifuku's fleet, but the Germa Kingdom fleet comes in to give them support. As the Straw Hats pass by the main Germa ship, Judge calls out to Luffy, asking why he values Sanji when his body and mind have flaws preventing him from becoming a perfect soldier. However, Luffy does not understand that this is a question and simply bids Judge farewell, before asking his crew why Judge listed good qualities about Sanji. The crew then quickly finds themselves in trouble again, as they see another massive Big Mom Pirates fleet coming toward them from the front. This new fleet consists of Paddle Ships that are able to rapidly approach their target, and as the crew is forced to deal with their new onslaught, Smoothie's ship gets close enough from behind that Daifuku can attack the Sunny with his genie. Sanji fends off the genie's attacks, but the Sunny is a sitting duck as it is surrounded by hundreds of ships. However, the sea suddenly begins to rise underneath the fleet, and Wadatsumi sends many ships flying into the distance as he bursts out of the water. Jinbe promptly dives underwater, where he sees his former crew the Sun Pirates. He wonders why they came back to help, and they declare that they will serve him until he and the Straw Hats can make it out of Totto Land.

On Funwari Island, Prometheus and Napoleon return to normal as Big Mom walks up to the wedding cake, and the Big Mom Pirates tensely observe from afar and wonder what effect the cake will have. With the cake at Big Mom's fingertips, Bege insists that they leave and carries Chiffon away. Chiffon pleas with him at first, but eventually accepts their departure and expresses her confidence in Sanji's culinary skills. Big Mom scoops out some pieces of cake, puts them in her mouth, and swallows. Suddenly, she freezes up, and falls on her back.
The Big Mom Pirates think that she has been poisoned and rush to get medical help, but Perospero then stops them as they watch Big Mom express her joy over the excellent taste of the cake. She gets back up and launches herself at the cake, overwhelmed by its magnificence, and her crew celebrates. As she watches her mother eat the cake, Chiffon remembers Sanji making his cream on Cacao Island, and she had gotten mad at him for doing what normally took a whole night. However, Sanji said he would finish it in two hours, saying he wanted Big Mom to have a joyful expression on her face when she ate it, and in the present, Chiffon remarks that Sanji got what he wished for. Perospero still believes the cake was poisoned, but thinks it just failed to harm Big Mom. He then announces to his crewmates and citizens of Totto Land that Big Mom's craving rampage has stopped, causing them to celebrate and be thankful for their survival. On Cacao Island, the citizens hail Pudding as a hero for making the cake, but she overhears them from the alley and denies it, tearfully remembering the skill and kindness of Sanji.
In the ocean close to Cacao Island, Jinbe stands before his former crew the Sun Pirates, who have all agreed to stay in Totto Land until Jinbe and the Straw Hats make it out. They then go on the offensive, with Wadatsumi swatting away ships with his massive arms while the rest of them use their weapons to disable the Paddle Ships and confront the Big Mom Pirates onboard. Smoothie and Daifuku continue pursuing the Thousand Sunny from behind, and Daifuku attempts to attack it with his genie again. However, Aladine uses Fish-Man Karate to hit the genie's halberd with a powerful stream of water, disarming it. The Sun Pirates successfully open up a path for the Sunny to sail through, and they bid Jinbe goodbye as he helms the ship to freedom.
On Cacao Island, Snack's fleet attacks and boards the Germa Kingdom fleet, and Judge heads out to confront the former Sweet Commander and his subordinates. All of the Charlotte Decuplets confront Ichiji, Niji, Yonji, and Reiju and merge together into a single massive fighter. As this happens, Oven arrives on a Paddle Ship through the Mirro-World and tells the pirates there that he has entrusted Brulee with the fight on Cacao Island. Brulee approaches the Big Mom Pirates with special bullets that will penetrate the Vinsmokes' Raid Suits and harm them, and out at sea, Oven heats up as he is determined to stop the person who beat Katakuri at all costs. He sticks his hands into the ocean and boils it, rendering the Sun Pirates unable to remain in it and forcing them to retreat into the deep.
Back on Funwari Island, Big Mom starts singing while eating the cake, reminiscing of her dream of creating a harmonious land in Totto Land. She realizes that the taste of the cake reminds her of the croquembouche she ate for her sixth birthday party with Mother Carmel and all her friends at the Sheep's House, and imagines herself back with them all. As she sings, Judge clashes with Snack, while his children are overwhelmed by Brulee's bullets. Mont-d'Or receives a report that the Queen Mama Chanter is about to arrive at Cacao Island, and he celebrates. With the Sun Pirates out of the way, the Big Mom Pirates resume their assault on the Sunny, and the Straw Hats struggle to defend against the barrage of cannon fire coming for them. Eventually, they come face to face with the Queen Mama Chanter and its barrage of cannonballs. After the Chanter's attack, flaming ship wreckage is left where the Sunny once was, and the Straw Hats' Jolly Roger is seen underwater.

Near Cacao Island, the Big Mom Pirates look at the flaming ship wreckage left in the Thousand Sunny's place, and remark how their victory was inevitable. Mont-d'Or's group on Whole Cake Island celebrates, as do the people on other Totto Land islands when they hear the news. On Funwari Island, Perospero marvels at the effectiveness of Pudding's wedding cake, which has been consumed in its entirety. Big Mom, now back at her normal size, lies on the ground in a blissful daze. Perospero attempts to tell her important news, such as the Fire Tank Pirates' escape, but she does not register his words.
However, back near Cacao Island, the Big Mom Pirates suddenly realize that the ship wreckage is not the Sunny, but is in fact the Sun Pirates' ship. Just moments ago, Aladine had ordered Wadatsumi to put their ship in the Sunny's place, even though Fisher Tiger had built it long ago. Wadatsumi managed to do it in the nick of time, pulling the Sunny underwater and putting it into his mouth before swimming away. The Big Mom Pirates see Wadatsumi underwater, and Oven shoots tendrils of heat through the water. One of the tendrils pierces Wadatsumi, causing him to spit out the Sunny and the Straw Hats in pain. The Big Mom Pirates' fleet quickly turns to pursue the Straw Hats once more, but Wadatsumi stands between them and intercepts the cannon fire. He apologizes to the Straw Hats for his actions on Fish-Man Island, and thanks Jinbe for having later allowed him to tag along. He and the Sun Pirates had decided earlier out of gratitude to protect Jinbe until he left Totto Land with his new crew, and were willing to throw away their lives to accomplish it. Aladine then pulls Wadatsumi underwater, and the Sun Pirates rise up out of it, ready to battle the Big Mom Pirates' forces.
The Sun Pirates quickly get to work taking down their opponents, and when Oven tries attacking the Straw Hats, Aladine charges in and clashes with him. However, the Sun Pirates are vastly outnumbered by the Big Mom Pirates, and are overwhelmed by the fleet's cannon fire as well as by Smoothie and Daifuku's abilities. On the Sunny, Jinbe tells the Straw Hats and Carrot to drain any water flooding the ship and repair the sails in order to get out of Totto Land as quickly as possible, and his comments confuse Luffy. Jinbe admits that he cannot leave his old crewmates behind, and Luffy offers to stay behind as well. However, Jinbe says that the crew will never leave alive if they cannot escape from the Big Mom Pirates' fleet, and he intends to ensure they escape by defending them from the rear. Luffy accepts this, but reminds Jinbe that he is his captain and tells him to reunite with them in Wano Country at all costs. Jinbe then thanks him.
Meanwhile, Big Mom races away from Funwari Island on a candy homie with Perospero accompanying her. Perospero tells her that their crew is currently battling the Straw Hats near Cacao Island, and Big Mom looks forward to getting there and using Luffy's soul to make homies. They pass by the Fire Tank Pirates sailing away on a Tarte, and Bege is relieved that they escaped. Vito worries about the Germa, and Bege notes that Chiffon seems worried as well, although she states she is confident the Straw Hats will escape and that she will see Nami again. Back near Cacao Island, Oven overpowers Aladine in a clash, and Jinbe goes to catch his comrade. Aladine is unhappy to see Jinbe here, but the fish-man says that they all need to survive. He and the Sun Pirates then create a whirlpool that brings forth a massive current which pushes the Sunny further away from the Big Mom Pirates' fleet. Close by, on a flying vessel attached to several News Coo, Morgans overhears what is happening and cheers on the Straw Hats, and Stussy asks why he is doing that. Morgans replies to her that he believes one of the members of the Worst Generation will become the next Pirate King.

As the Thousand Sunny sails through calm ocean, Sanji finds out that Pedro has died. He is surprised to hear this, and remembers their first encounter on Zou, when the jaguar mink had begged him to save Inuarashi and Nekomamushi from death after Jack's attack. Carrot tells him to not feel bad, as this is what Pedro wanted and they would not have escape alive without his sacrifice. She then starts sobbing, and Sanji comforts her. Chopper is tending to Luffy's wounds when cotton candy snow starts falling, which the crew takes as a sign that they are almost out of Totto Land.
The battle between the Sun Pirates, Germa 66, and the Big Mom Pirates continues raging on Cacao Island, and Jinbe puts himself into the fray as he attacks the Big Mom Pirates' ships. Pudding remains camped out in an alley in Chocolat Town, and weeps as she holds a roll of film in her hands. She remembers being once set to fool and kill Sanji during their wedding, serving as Big Mom's pawn even as her mother frequently made rude comments about her third eye, which she had been bullied for since childhood. Thanks to that, Sanji complimenting her third eye, which Pudding had intended to use to stun him with repulsion during their wedding, caused her to break down in tears. In the last moments of their time together on Cacao Island, Pudding had kissed Sanji, but promptly removed his memories of the event, leaving him wondering what her request was as she ran off. Now, she is alone with just the roll of Sanji's memories.
On Whole Cake Island, Mont-d'Or tries calling Perospero to find out Big Mom's whereabouts, but is unsuccessful and receives a call from Cacao Island. The call reveals that a stray Territorial Sea Slug had picked up the Sunny on the edge of Totto Land, meaning they had successfully escaped the Big Mom Pirates' territory. Mont-d'Or's group reacts with anguish, and after hearing this report, Jinbe, the Sun Pirates, and Germa 66 pull out of the battle on Cacao Island as they prepare to retreat. However, everyone sees Big Mom coming onto the scene, and the Sun Pirates and Germa brace to take her on. Jinbe is intent on remaining alive, but the Big Mom Pirates' overwhelming assault on their enemies is renewed as they celebrate their captain's arrival. As she reaches Cacao Island, Big Mom asks her enemies if they will give her their lifespan or die.
In the Mirro-World, Brulee goes to the defeated Katakuri and begins treating his wounds. She asks him why he got up and fell on his back after initially falling forward, and Katakuri admits that his reputation of never laying on his back is a lie. Brulee reveals that she knows this, having seen him through mirrors, but she thinks no less of him, as she knows that Katakuri took on his invulnerable image to protect his siblings. When they were children, Katakuri enjoyed eating donuts with his massive mouth on full display, and if anyone made fun of it, he would just beat them up. However, one day he discovered that the people he beat up gave Brulee a cut across her face out of revenge, and although Brulee insisted that he was fine the way he was, Katakuri could not handle his sister getting hurt because of him. Donning a scarf to cover his mouth and wielding Mogura, Katakuri went to take down Brulee's attackers. In the present, Katakuri asks about what happened to Luffy. Brulee reveals that he escaped from Totto Land, and as she expected, Katakuri smiles at the news.
On the seas outside of Totto Land, Luffy remarks that he is hungry. Sanji asks if he wants him to cook something, and Luffy, Chopper, Brook, and Carrot are ecstatic for him to do so. As Sanji starts cooking, a group of rowdy pirates comes to Baratie and demands food. The cooks are displeased and hesitant about serving them, but Zeff starts cooking right away. Sanji and Zeff both comment that everyone gets hungry, and so they cook to serve everyone who wants food.

As Shanks looks out toward the ocean with a newspaper in his hand, he remembers his time in East Blue 12 years ago. Wanting to be a pirate and join Shanks' crew despite his inability to swim, a 7-year-old Luffy tried proving his toughness by stabbing himself under his eye. Afterwards, Luffy continued trying to convince Shanks to let him join as the Red Hair Pirates drank at the Partys Bar. A band of mountain bandits led by Higuma then came in and demanded alcohol, but Makino informed them that she was all out due to the pirates drinking everything. Higuma responded by hitting Shanks over the head with a bottle, and Shanks did nothing more than apologize for the mess and clean up. After humiliating Shanks some more, Higuma and his band departed. Luffy got mad at Shanks for not fighting back, and started eating a fruit he found in a chest. When he saw this, Shanks panicked and revealed that Luffy had eaten the Gomu Gomu no Mi, a Devil Fruit which would render him unable to ever swim. Shanks tried shaking Luffy to force the fruit out, only for Luffy's body to stretch as the fruit's powers took effect.
Later, Makino alerted mayor Woop Slap that Luffy was being attacked by Higuma's group. They were powerless to stop the mountain bandits as Higuma prepared to kill Luffy, but Shanks then arrived and greeted them. One of the bandits threatened Shanks with his pistol, only to be shot by Lucky Roux. Benn Beckman then went on the offensive and quickly took out all of Higuma's men. A cornered Higuma responded by unleashing a smoke ball, allowing him to flee with Luffy in tow. Higuma took Luffy out to sea and threw him into the water to drown, but was then eaten by the Lord of the Coast. The Lord of the Coast attempted to eat Luffy as well, but Luffy was saved by Shanks. Shanks scared the Sea King off, but Luffy was distraught that he had lost his arm in the process of saving him. Some time later, the Red Hair Pirates were about to set off to sea, and Luffy had decided to remain behind and form his own crew in the future that would surpass Shanks'. Shanks decided to give Luffy his straw hat, telling him to return it when he had surpassed him, and Luffy watched with the Foosha Village citizens as the Red Hair Pirates departed. Ten years later, Luffy set out to sea on his own, and took down the Lord of the Coast with Gomu Gomu no Pistol. In the present, Makino is with her infant son when Woop Slap approaches her, and she asks if he has seen the newspaper.
As the Thousand Sunny is sailing, Luffy wakes up and a Raid Suit canister falls from his pocket. Chopper reveals that the Germa 66 members use those to transform, and he and Luffy beg Sanji to try it on. Sanji refuses, not wanting any part of his family's technology. Luffy and Chopper unsuccessfully attempt to activate the canister, and plead with Sanji again. He voices his dislike of scientific devices like that, and Nami wonders if he feels the same way about her Clima-Tact. She then has Zeus emerge from it, and Sanji grows resentful of the cloud homie for being Nami's servant. Carrot then receives a newspaper, and goes down to show the crew. They see no updates on Jinbe, but find that Luffy and Sanji have received new bounties. Sanji is happy that his bounty is now greater than Zoro's and that he is wanted dead or alive again, but becomes depressed upon seeing that the name on his bounty poster is now "Vinsmoke Sanji". Luffy is also aghast at what his new bounty is as well.
It is revealed that due to Luffy's newfound command over the Straw Hat Grand Fleet as well as his perceived masterminding of the invasion of Totto Land, he is now considered to be the Fifth Emperor of the Sea. On Fish-Man Island, the Ryugu Kingdom royals talk about the news as they prepare to head to Levely. With the Sun Pirates now enemies of Big Mom, King Neptune decides that Fish-Man Island will now place itself under the Straw Hats' protection. Princess Shirahoshi then approaches her father and brothers, intending on joining them for Levely. In Marine Headquarters, Fleet Admiral Sakazuki cares little about Luffy's new title, as he has no intention of the Marines allowing pirates to have their way. Meanwhile, back on Shanks' island, he reads the news and smiles. 

At Marine Headquarters on New Marineford, Sakazuki asks about the statuses of the royals heading to the Levely. One Marine reports that pirates attacked the Lulusia Kingdom ship and kidnapped Princess Komane, angering Sakazuki. The ships of Dressrosa and the Prodence Kingdom sail to Levely together, and Rebecca races up to Riku Doldo III with Leo, Kabu, and Bian, asking her grandfather if he read the article about Luffy. Doldo affirms that he has, and Rebecca's group expresses their excitement over Luffy's accomplishments, but Elizabello II warns them to refrain from expressing such admiration once they reach the World Government's domain. Rebecca then goes to show the article to Viola, but finds that she has read it as well.
Meanwhile, the band of pirates that had kidnapped Komane spies on the Dressrosa-Prodence group from an underwater submarine, and they shoot a torpedo at it. However, Koby dives underwater and redirects the torpedo, saving the royals. The royals still feel the effect of the explosion and are put on guard, but Koby then leaps onto their ship and gets in contact with Helmeppo, who has disabled the submarine, taken out the pirates, and freed Komane. The royals give Koby their utmost gratitude for saving them, and Koby is sheepishly humble in response. When Rebecca approaches him, Koby notices the picture of Luffy on her newspaper and expresses his surprise at seeing him. Rebecca lends him the newspaper to read, and Koby quickly tears up as he reads about Luffy's accomplishments, recalling his life-changing experience with the pirate.
Two years ago, Koby was slaving away on the Alvida Pirates' ship when Luffy suddenly broke out of a barrel some of the crew was planning to drink from. Luffy revealed to Koby that he was going to become the Pirate King, and Koby believed that would be impossible, but Luffy refused to believe that. Koby became slightly bolder as he revealed his own dream to join the Marines, although he was still too scared of Alvida. When Luffy confronted Alvida, however, Koby worked up the courage to stand up to her. Days later, Koby attempted to rescue Roronoa Zoro at Shells Town, and talked about how he wanted to uphold justice as a Marine. After this, he, Luffy, and Zoro were at a bar when the Marines arrived to force the latter two off the island. They wondered if Koby was with them, and Luffy was able to rile up Koby into punching him, causing the Marines to separate them. Koby then asked to join the Marines, and some of them were initially hesitant, but he was accepted as he and the Marines went to thank Luffy and Zoro for their help.
Back in the present, Koby thanks Rebecca for giving him the newspaper, and she asks him if he is friends with Luffy. A flustered Koby attempts to deny it, but Rebecca sees through it and invites him to talk about Luffy with her and the Tontatta. On the Thousand Sunny, Luffy weeps over his new bounty, telling his crew that it was decreased to 150,000,000. Elsewhere, an enraged Kaidou reads the newspaper and wonders why Luffy was in Big Mom's territory. On Whole Cake Island, Big Mom is incredulous at how the story claims that Luffy "won" against her, and on another island, Blackbeard says it is still too early for Luffy to be considered an Emperor of the Sea. Meanwhile, Shanks sits alone and smiles, saying the time may soon be near for him and Luffy to reunite. Back on the Sunny, Brook picks up his bounty poster and realizes that Luffy was incorrect; his bounty was actually raised to 1,500,000,000.

The Peachbeard Pirates raid a port town in the Lulusia Kingdom. With the royals having left for the Levely and their best fighters all accompanying them, Peachbeard and his crew are easily able to overwhelm the remaining Marines and subdue the defenseless villagers to take their belongings for Blackbeard. Moda attempts to run away with a jar of milk in her hands, but she is chased and subdued by the pirates. She says the milk is for the children and she has no money, but Peachbeard takes the milk and inquires about the money she has saved for the Heavenly Tribute. Moda says she and the other citizens, who are poor, will be killed if they cannot pay the tribute, and Peachbeard remarks that their king is a bad ruler, but orders his crew to steal the Heavenly Tribute regardless. He then hits Moda away, but her fall is stopped by Belo Betty.
Suddenly, the ground rises up, and out of it emerges the okama giant Morley. The Peachbeard Pirates are stunned at Morley's arrival and feminine appearance, and their gawking causes Morley to become flustered and aggressive, resulting in her moving the ground like clay and pushing it towards them. Belo Betty then steps out and asks the townspeople what they are going to do. Lindbergh flies in, annoyed that Morley attacked too early and prevented him from debuting his new weapon, and a murder of crows flies in that manifests into Karasu. The Peachbeard Pirates are left in shock, with one of them revealing to his captain that these four are the commanders of the Revolutionary Army.
On the Thousand Sunny, Luffy gets up from resting to ask Nami if there is any article in the newspaper about the Revolutionary Army. Nami does not see any, with the most recent report on them still being about the discovery and destruction of their base on Baltigo. Meanwhile, Monkey D. Dragon, Sabo, Koala, and the other Revolutionaries walk through their new headquarters on Momoiro Island. They reach a table where Emporio Ivankov and Inazuma is sitting, and Sabo lies down and starts reading the news about Luffy. The news makes him smile, and Ivankov is also very interested in the news about Luffy and Sanji. Sabo smiles so much that he starts getting a cramp in his mouth, and the Revolutionary leaders wait for the four commanders to arrive so they can begin their meeting. Sabo then receives a call from Lindbergh, who says that they will be there soon. However, Dragon decides to begin proceedings now rather than wait, and Sabo looks forward to preparing for their upcoming declaration of war on the World Nobles during the Levely.
Back in the Lulusia Kingdom, the four commanders prepare to fight the Peachbeard Pirates, and Peachbeard incurs Karasu's wrath when he points out the commander's mumbling. Betty then turns to the townspeople, asking them what they will choose to do and encouraging them to fight. As she does this, she waves her flag around, using the powers of the Kobu Kobu no Mi to awaken the townspeople's full potential. The people are roused by her speech, and pick up sticks to charge the pirates. The Peachbeard Pirates think little of this as they attempt to shoot at the townspeople, but Morley moves the ground to block their shots, Lindbergh uses his new Cool Shooter to freeze their guns, and Karasu unleashes a murder of crows that takes all the guns. The townspeople then overwhelm the pirates, with Moda defeating Peachbeard with a single blow to the head. In the aftermath, a captured Peachbeard promises revenge from Blackbeard, but Betty replies that he does not care about his subordinate crews. She then leaves him in the care of the townspeople, saying they can get his 52,000,000 bounty by turning him in to the Marines, and she also gives them the Revolutionary Army's contact information should anyone wish to join their cause and fight. The townspeople cry with joy, and the commanders talk about the army's plans as they head off, with two days remaining until the Levely.

Two years have passed since the Summit War of Marineford. Sakazuki is now the new Fleet Admiral of the Marines. Due to the catastrophic destruction of Marineford, the Marines decided to build a new headquarters named New Marineford. New Marineford is an even greater fortress built to acclimate to the raging pirate era. It has become the new home of justice located at the entrance to the New World.
Sakazuki is angered when he learns that Fujitora has gone to Mary Geoise. He had only allowed the Admiral to set foot on a Marine base if he had captured Luffy and Law. Fujitora rationalizes his visit by saying that Mary Geoise isn't technically a Marine base. Sakazuki then finds out that Ryokugyu is also at Mary Geoise, so he orders T-Bone to have Ryokugyu turn Fujitora away when he sees him.
He and Borsalino talk about how Luffy's bounty has gone significantly higher. This makes Sakazuki regret not ending Luffy's life when he had the chance back in Marineford. He curses the Great Pirate Era and vows to end it. He recalls Whitebeard saying that, like there are people who have inherited Roger's will, there will also be others who will inherit Ace's. He adds that no matter how they might destroy their spirit, no one will be able to extinguish their flame.
Meanwhile, Sengoku also muses about how quickly the Great Pirate Era gathered so much momentum in just two years. He commends Luffy for making history by being the first intruder to infiltrate Impel Down. Even if he snuck in alone, Luffy was able to escape with an army of inmates who had become allies, including former enemies. He also notes Luffy's ability to make miracles happen, such as when the Gates of Justice opened for Luffy's ship as he and some inmates tried to escape. He then recalls the events in Marineford, such as Whitebeard's arrival, the intense battle between the Marines and Whitebeard's fleet, and Luffy falling from the sky to rescue Ace.

Sengoku continues his memories about what happened at Marineford two years ago. Luffy and the escaped prisoners join the Whitebeard Pirates and battles against the Marines. To the shock of everyone, Luffy unintentionally uses Haoshoku Haki, knocking out everyone in the vicinity. He rescues Ace and they prepare to escape, but Ace is unfortunately killed by Akainu. Whitebeard would also lose his life in this war.
Back to present day, many of the monarchs around the world gather at Mary Geoise for the Levely. King Beer VI of the Roshwan Kingdom, Queen Mororon of the Tajine Kingdom, Tacos of the Shishano Kingdom, and Ham Burger of the Ballywood Kingdom arrive. However, to the surprise of the spectators, the Neptune Family also arrives, despite only having attended a Levely once before.
Meanwhile, Fujitora eats a bowl of noodles with Ryokugyu, whose features are not shown. Ryokugyu explains that Sakazuki ordered him to kick out Fujitora, but he will not do so. Fujitora gives his motive for attending the Levely: he wants to dissolve the Seven Warlords of the Sea.

The Neptune Family walks through the crowd, escorted by Garp, as paparazzi take photos of them. Shirahoshi shows everyone. However, they are stopped by Sterry of the Goa Kingdom. He was previously a noble in the kingdom and married Princess Nantokanette, but due to the king and prince's mysterious passing, Sterry rose as the king of the Goa Kingdom.
Sabo watches Sterry, remembering that he is Sabo's adopted brother. He recalls when he first met Luffy at the Gray Terminal. Although he was originally hostile to Luffy, they would eventually exchange sake cups for a Sakazuki ceremony, officially becoming brothers. Sabo would forfeit his noble heritage and become a pirate.
However, Sabo's parents would catch wind of this, hiring Bluejam to capture them. Sabo is forced to leave Ace and Luffy and return to his parents' mansion. There, he meets Sterry, whom his parents have adopted. Sabo finds out, through Sterry, that the nobles of Goa Kingdom plan to burn down the Gray Terminal to make the country "cleaner," so that a World Noble could visit.
Sabo attempts to stop the fire, but is beaten by the guards. There, Monkey D. Dragon, leader of the Revolutionary Army, notices him. To the shock of Dragon, Sabo exclaims that he is ashamed of being a noble. Sabo decides to set sail and leave Goa Kingdom as a pirate. However, a World Noble was passing by, who guns down Sabo's ship. Dragon rescues Sabo from the wreckage, who would later accept him as the second-in-command of the Revolutionary Army.
Meanwhile, Luffy had been telling the story of him and Ace after Sabo had supposedly died. Ace promises Luffy that he would never die. They both promise to set sail when they turn 17 and become pirates. Luffy would grow up and set sail himself, dreaming of becoming Pirate King.
Back at the Red Line, Sabo captures one of the guards, taking their armor. Sterry continues speaking with Garp, only to be approached by the Neptune Family. Mistaking them for giant fishmen, Sterry collapses, terrified of them. They ride up the bondola to get to Mary Geoise, and Shirahoshi is amazed to see the sun for the first time. Sterry also rides up the bondola, panicking from the height, the wind, and Morley, who watches them from the Red Line. Sabo disguises himself as one of the guards and rides the bondola with Sterry.

The group of royals including the Neptune Family and Sterry reach the top of the Red Line on a bondola and disembark to a large staircase leading up to Mary Geoise. They are greeted by a guard, who is actually Sabo in disguise. The Neptune Family is given new bubbles suited for the elevated climate, and after traversing the stairs, the royals gaze at the pristine landscape of Mary Geoise. They are still a ways off from Pangaea Castle, but the guards take them to moving walkways known as travelators. Fukaboshi decides to not stay on the travelator and offers to take Shirahoshi through the forest instead. The Neptune Family is escorted toward the forest, and Sterry mocks them for avoiding modern conveniences, but Fukaboshi senses that something is off. Unbeknownst to him, his intuition is correct, as the travelators are moved underground by forced slave labor, with the slaves being on the verge of death. Meanwhile, from the World Nobles' domain, Charlos spots Shirahoshi with his binoculars and is ecstatic to see the mermaid princess.
The royals eventually reach Pangaea Castle, where they happily mingle with representatives of other nations before the Levely starts. The royals are awed to see the famed Shirahoshi for the first time, with many of them offering their sons as potential suitors. Shirahoshi quickly becomes flustered and rejects all of them, causing the royals to feel spurned and get angry. Fukaboshi and Ryuboshi quickly intervene to try to diffuse the situation, claiming that Shirahoshi was speaking in a different dialect while telling their sister to let her suitors down easily. Meanwhile, Nefertari Vivi meets Leo for the first time, and she calls him cute, much to his chagrin. He tells her that he is a pirate who serves under Luffy, and Vivi and Rebecca marvel over their shared connection to Luffy.
Two years ago, Vivi had sailed with the Straw Hats to save her country Arabasta from Crocodile and Baroque Works. On their voyage, they had put x marks on their arms to prevent being impersonated. While in Arabasta, she got into an argument with Luffy, who opposed her ideal of protecting the country herself. After a brief fight, Luffy declared that if Vivi was to shoulder this burden, they would at least shoulder it with her. Crocodile set up a rebel army to try to depose the royal family, and as they attacked the capital Alubarna and fought the royal army, the Straw Hats fought against the Baroque Works agents. Usopp and Chopper defeated Mr. 4 and Miss Merry Christmas, Sanji defeated Mr. 2 Bon Kurei, Nami defeated Miss Doublefinger, and Zoro defeated Mr. 1. Vivi desperately tried to stop the two armies from fighting, and the fight managed to stop as Luffy defeated Crocodile and rain began to fall again on the country. A few days later, Vivi contemplated whether to continue sailing with the Straw Hats or stay behind in her country. As the Straw Hats set sail, she called out to them from the coast and bid them farewell, having decided to stay in her country. In order to keep their goodbye covert, the Straw Hats showed Vivi the x marks on their arms. In the present day, Shirahoshi overhears Vivi and Rebecca and asks if they know Luffy. Ryuboshi quickly try to intervene due to not wanting Shirahoshi to reveal her friendship to Luffy, and Vivi and Rebecca are likewise unsure if she is a friend. However, Shirahoshi does not heed her brother's warnings, and the three of them are happy to find other friends of Luffy as they remember their experiences with him.

Vivi, Rebecca and Shirahoshi discuss their experiences with Luffy. Dalton and Kureha appear at the Levely from the Sakura Kingdom, but also Wapol, who had taken over another kingdom. Vivi remembers her adventure on Drum Island.
The Straw Hats previously stopped by Drum Island because Nami had come down with an incapacitating disease. Drum Island was ransacked by Blackbeard before the Straw Hats arrived only to have their own king, Wapol, abandon the country. After the Straw Hats arrived, Wapol returned, and Luffy had to prevent Wapol from taking back the throne. Luffy defeated Wapol, sending him flying away to a faraway land.
Vivi also tells of Chopper and how he became the Straw Hat Pirates' doctor. Chopper was at first mentored by the quack doctor Hiriluk, but because Hiriluk had died, Chopper went to Kureha to continue his medical training. After Luffy defeated Wapol, he invited Chopper into his crew.
Back in present day, in underwater prison Impel Down, former Warlord Doflamingo is chained to the floor on the lowest level, named Eternal Hell. Doflamingo claims that he knows the secret of the holy land Mary Geoise.
Meanwhile, in Mary Geoise's Pangaea Castle, a mysterious hooded figure holds Luffy's wanted poster, approaching a giant straw hat.

The episode starts with the Neptune Family arriving at Mariejois on the wishes of late queen Otohime. 
Another scene shows King Sterry of the Goa Kingdom coming into the Pangaea Castle. He was enamored by the grandiosity of the Empty Throne and wishes to sit on it but his efforts were thwarted by a priest who explains the significance of the throne. This does not stop Sterry's desire to sit on the throne.
In another scene, Shirahoshi was being captured by a slave orders of World Noble Charlos. Fukaboshi attempts to intervened but was stopped by King Neptune who views it too risky to counter the actions of the world nobles. Vivi decides to intervened but was held back by others. Rebecca does the same but was also held back by Sai who tells her that it's too risky to attack a World Noble. Charlos' slave smashed Shirahoshi on the ground in an attempt to subdue her, only to have the spectators more horrified. After subduing Shirahoshi, Charlos announced that he will make Shirahoshi his pet. Leo rushes out to save Shirahoshi while Sai attempts to stop him. With all his efforts lost, he decided to join Leo on the attack, only for both to be stopped by Rob Lucci. Lucci and Kaku tells both of them and countless nations were saved by the wrath of the World Nobles due to their efforts.
In another scene, Wapol was seen appreciating the World Government while insulting all the pirates that exist. A flashback of the Straw Hats fighting at Enies Lobby to rescue Robin was played. 
Rob Lucci starts talking about how the World Nobles are sacred like gods due to their impact on the world, thus having more rights. He adds on that if a god wants something, one must give it to them. Vivi protests that this isn't fair and makes no sense, only to be told that not everything has to make sense. Vivi later goes to grab Lucci. This move inspired Neptune to attack the World Nobles. Vivi runs and protects Charlos as she knew the consequences of attacking the World Nobles. Neptune says sorry to Otohime's words and decides to provoke war with humans. Suddenly, Mjosgard appears and strucks Charlos with a spiked club. Mjosgard announces to everyone that he was ashamed by the actions of his fellow world nobles and asks for forgiveness. Wapol questions if Mjosgard is a World Noble. Mjosgard tells Charlos' slave to leave Shirahoshi alone. He kneels down towards Neptune and tells him about how he was indebted to the Ryugu Kingdom. He recounts the story of when he was trapped him the Ryugu Kingdom. When he provoked the Fish-men to return him back to Mariejois, the fish-men fired upon him to shoot him. Otohime rushed and blocked the bullets from hitting him. Otohime tells the fish-men to drop their guns. The fish-men question her actions but she explains that while she knows their resentment towards humans, being resentful towards humans does no good. Otohime wishes to establish better relationships with humans. After telling the story, Mjosgard says that he decided to be a decent human due to this action and was willing to protect anyone in danger. He tells Lucci, Kaku, Stussy, and the other Cipher Pol personnel to leave. Mjosgard tells Neptune that he is admired to meet him. 

Big Mom contacts Kaidou through Den Den Mushi, telling him that she would be visiting Wano Country to personally kill Luffy. Kaidou objects, claiming that his grudge against Luffy was greater. Kaidou had previously operated a SMILE fruit operation with Donquixote Doflamingo, but Luffy destroyed the factory, ending the operation. Kaidou wanted to be the one to personally kill Luffy. However, Big Mom refuses to back down, suggesting that they form an alliance against him.
Meanwhile, in New Marineford, the Marines manage to wiretap the call, learning about the Emperors' plans to kill Luffy in Wano Country. Kizaru suggests Marine intervention, but Sakazuki refuses, since Wano Country was not part of the World Government and was thus outside their jurisdiction.
Garp has a conversation with Hina on the matter, and tells the story of Luffy's adventures after the Marineford War. Immediately after the war concluded, Luffy returned to Marineford and rang the Ox Bell, signalling the beginning of a new era and hinting at his crew members to meet again in two years. The Straw Hats trained separately, reunited at Sabaody two years later, and resumed their adventures.
Garp continues the story. The Straw Hats reached Fish-Man Island to cross the Red Line. After defeating Hody Jones and thwarting their coup d'etat against the Ryugu Kingdom, Luffy would personally pick a fight with Big Mom herself. He would continue his adventures in Punk Hazard. During his struggle against mad scientist Caesar Clown, Luffy formed an alliance with Trafalgar Law of the Heart Pirates, planning to take down another Emperor, Kaidou. On his next adventure, Luffy infiltrated Dressrosa and clashed against its tyrannical king, Donquixote Doflamingo. During this struggle, not only did Straw Hat put an end to Kaidou's SMILE fruit operation, seven powerful crews would join Straw Hat's army.
Luffy continued onto the island of Zou. There, the Mink tribe and the Kozuki Family would both join Luffy's alliance with Law to take down Emperor Kaidou. However, Sanji was forced to split away from the crew due to a political marriage. The crew would split into two groups, of which Luffy's group went to Totto Land to fight against the Big Mom Pirates and rescue Sanji. Luffy dealt a heavy hit to the Big Mom Pirates because he destroyed Big Mom's castle, foiled a political marriage and an assassination attempt, and took down their most formidable fighter, Katakuri. Although the Straw Hats escaped Totto Land, Big Mom continues to pursue Luffy for revenge.
Back in present day, Shanks infiltrates Pangaea Castle and speaks with the Five Elders. He wishes to speak to them about a certain pirate.

A disguised Sabo successfully infiltrates Pangaea Castle as he goes through the Celestial Dragon Gate with other guards after a request was made for reinforcements. Inside, he splits from the group and surveys the castle, taking pictures with a special Den Den Mushi. He ends up running into a guard, who confronts him, but he quickly takes out the guard with Ryusoken and places him back at the door. Karasu then flies and makes a racket right outside, causing Sabo to head toward an exit. He encounters two more guards and runs away from them, popping a window open to make them think he jumped out into the abyss. In reality, he is hanging from the ceiling above them with Ryusoken, and he drops down and takes them out. He then runs toward a wall and destroys it with Ryusoken, allowing him to fly away on one of Karasu's crows. Karasu notes he acted recklessly, but Sabo says that they will be picking a fight there anyways.
In the Socializing Plaza, Mansherry heals Shirahoshi's bruise, and Shirahoshi thanks her. Mjosgard tells Neptune that he intervened in Charlos' kidnapping attempt to keep his promise with Otohime. He promises to keep Shirahoshi safe for the next seven days of the Levely, and gives Leo permission to beat up any World Nobles who threaten her. Pell then races into the plaza and apologizes to Vivi for leaving her alone during the incident. She asks where her father is, and he reveals that Cobra and Riku Doldo III are currently meeting with Admiral Fujitora.
Conney, the queen dowager of the Sorbet Kingdom, heads toward the Celestial Dragon Gate and the Domain of the Gods. The guards recognize her, but say she cannot pass and should return to the castle. Charlos is then brought toward the gate as he agonizes over his wound, and the gate opens for him. He is greeted by his father Rosward, and while the gate is open, Conney manages to elude the guards' gaze and run through it. Rosward expresses his disappointment with Mjosgard, and Charlos notices that his father is riding the invincible slave and former Warlord Bartholomew Kuma, having gotten his turn to rent him.
Two years ago, Kuma was assigned by the World Government to dispose of the Straw Hat Pirates on Thriller Bark. He confronted them there, but after Roronoa Zoro offered his life to save his captain Luffy, Kuma failed to kill the Straw Hats. He then appeared to confront the Straw Hats again on Sabaody Archipelago, but strangely possessed several new abilities, including the ability to shoot lasers. It turned out that these were machines modeled after Kuma called Pacifistas; the real Kuma, though, did appear on Sabaody and cause the Straw Hats to all disappear. By the time of the Summit War of Marineford, the World Government's modifications on Kuma were completed, and he confronted his old Revolutionary comrade Emporio Ivankov without recognizing him. Ivankov was dumbfounded, and Doflamingo revealed to him that Kuma had lost his humanity and became the Pacifista PX-0. However, Kuma would then go on to keep watch over the Straw Hats' ship the Thousand Sunny while they were away for the next two years, having ominously told Silvers Rayleigh two years earlier about his allegiance to the Revolutionary Army and intention to help the Straw Hats. He departed from the Sunny when Franky came, and Franky later told the rest of his crew about this, saying that Kuma was one of their greatest allies.
In the present, Rosward takes joy in hitting and stabbing Kuma on a whim, and Sabo becomes enraged as he watches from a nearby alley. He tries to charge at the World Nobles, but is caught and held back by Karasu, and they are pulled into the ground by Morley. Meanwhile, after having infiltrated the Domain of the Gods, Conney transforms into her real form, Jewelry Bonney. Bonney looks at Kuma, and gets tears in her eyes as she says she will never forgive the World Government. Under the ground, Karasu, Morley, and Lindbergh warn Sabo to not get worked up over Kuma, as even though they were saddened as well, they knew Kuma could never return to his old self even if he was freed. They note that the World Government has made a prime example out of him, as he is in this state after rebelling despite having once been a king of an affiliated nation. They warn Sabo that they cannot afford to mess up, and Sabo understands this, saying they can only succeed or die.

Sabo and other elite Revolutionary Army officers hide underground as Rosward and Charlos leaves the area. Having learned the tragic truth about Kuma, Sabo thinks about Kuma's actions.
During the Straw Hat Pirates' first adventure to Sabaody Archipelago, they were faced against Kizaru, whom they had no hopes of beating. Although apparently siding with Kizaru, Kuma sent the Straw Hat Pirates away to separate islands so they would not be killed. The time the Straw Hat Pirates spent apart allowed them to become stronger when they reunited two years later. Sabo acknowledges that Kuma's sacrifices were necessary for Luffy to rise as a pirate in the New World.
The Levely finally begins and the monarchs sit at their seats for the debate. The monarchs consider offering intervention in the upcoming conflict in Wano Country, but they oppose the idea.
Meanwhile, the Five Elders walk through the corridor while the monarchs are at the Levely. They agree that the conflict in Wano is out of their control. The mysterious hooded figure, Imu, is also summoned. He meets with the Five Elders at the throne room and sits on the empty throne. The Five Elders bow at Imu's feet and ask for advice.

On a certain island, the Guardians prowl around near its shore, and they look at the ruined buildings close to them. Blackback is impatient as he waits for Nekomamushi to return with Marco, but Roddy reminds him that they cannot go where their ruler is to avoid scaring the residents. Behind a nearby waterfall is a small blissful village where Marco works as a doctor, and he uses his phoenix flames to heal a pet sphinx named Tama.
Marco was once the First Division Commander of the Whitebeard Pirates, whose captain, Whitebeard, treated his crew like his own sons. During the Summit War of Marineford two years ago, Whitebeard was betrayed by his subordinate Squard, whose entire crew had been killed by Gol D. Roger. However, Whitebeard instantly recognized that Squard did this as a result of resenting his crewmate Ace, whom they were trying to rescue, being Roger's son, which had been craftily stoked by Akainu beforehand. As a result, he immediately forgave Squard. After successfully rescuing Ace, Whitebeard elected to remain behind and allow his crew to escape, and he asked Ace if he had been a good father, which Ace tearfully affirmed. However, Whitebeard ultimately met his end at the hands of Blackbeard, a former crewmate whom he refused to consider family after Blackbeard had killed his crewmate Thatch. Several decades earlier, a young Whitebeard was asked by his crewmates what his biggest desire was after he showed no interest in their treasure, and Whitebeard had responded that it was a family.
After Whitebeard's death, Blackbeard stole his Devil Fruit, wielding it alongside his own Yami Yami no Mi power to gain unfathomable strength. Blackbeard would go on to conquer nearly all of Whitebeard's possessions en route to taking his spot among the Four Emperors, and Marco led the remainder of the Whitebeard Pirates in an attempt to stop him in the Payback War. However, Blackbeard proved too powerful for them, and now all Marco can do is keep watch over this island, which is where Whitebeard grew up. It suffered from immense poverty that prevented it from becoming a member of the World Government, and so frequently came under attack by pirates and marauders. Whitebeard left the island at an early age, but for the remainder of his life, he sent the treasure that he won to the people there, allowing them to prosper, as this island was his greatest treasure. Marco tells Nekomamushi that the Shichibukai Edward Weevil was going around claiming to be Whitebeard's son and looking for Whitebeard's treasure. Marco has no idea whether or not Weevil is actually Whitebeard's son, though he does know that his mother, Buckin, did sail with Whitebeard around 40 years ago. Regardless, there is no treasure, and so Marco anticipates that Weevil and Buckin will eventually come after him and this island someday. Thus, he will be unable to leave the island with Nekomamushi, and tells him to give Luffy a message. He asks what they will be doing in Wano Country, and is shocked when Nekomamushi reveals that they are aiming to take down Kaidou.

As the Thousand Sunny sails to Wano Country, Nami reads about the Levely in the newspaper and calls out to Luffy after seeing the news of Shirahoshi and her family reaching Mary Geoise. The crew then sees pictures of Vivi, their allies from Dressrosa, and their allies and enemies from Drum Island. Chopper takes the paper to cut out the picture of Kureha while Sanji cuts out the pictures of the princesses, and this prevents Nami from reading an article about Big Mom and Kaidou, causing her to get angry.
Luffy attempts to contact Kin'emon through a Den Den Mushi, but cannot connect. Back on Zou several weeks ago, the samurai Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and Raizo had revealed that their companion Momonosuke was the heir to the daimyo of Kuri, Kozuki Oden. However, Oden had been killed by the shogun of Wano and Kaidou, and the samurai asked Luffy and Law to join them in their quest to take down the two of them and avenge Oden. In the present, an octopus covertly makes its way onto the Sunny as the Straw Hats find themselves heading into an area with strong winds and irregular currents. The crew debates whether or not to turn back, but elect to keep going as Nami remembers Kin'emon telling her on Zou that Wano was surrounded by challenging conditions.
The Sunny is swept into a current, and the Straw Hats see giant fish moving under them, causing them to become very afraid. However, the fish turn out to be giant carp, and Luffy immediately starts thinking about how to cook and eat one. After a discussion with Sanji, Luffy pulls himself onto a carp, but is unable to overpower it as it continues swimming. The Sunny crew wonders where this current is leading, and to their shock, they found it has led them to the bottom of a waterfall. As they wonder what to do before they are crushed by the falls, Luffy jumps back onto the ship. He then grabs onto two of the carp swimming up the waterfall, causing them to pull the Sunny up. The Straw Hats successfully make it to the top of the waterfall, and they see land just up ahead, which they assume is Wano. However, they then realize that they are heading toward a whirlpool. Nami forces Luffy to let go of the carp and has Brook try to steer out of the whirlpool, but Brook is unable to do so. A short time later, Luffy is seen sinking into the sea.

In Wano Country, Zoro's group has assimilated in with the populace. Franky is working as a carpenter named Franosuke, Usopp is selling toad oil as Usohachi, and Robin is training as a geisha named O-Robi to perform before the shogun. As night falls, Zoro, acting as a ronin named Zoro-juurou, walks out onto the street. Some distance away, a masked man strikes down another man with his blade. Zoro then comes onto the scene and smells blood on the man, causing him to realize the situation and confront him. He then sees police racing onto the scene to apprehend the slasher, who runs away. Zoro tries to point them to him, but to his shock, he is identified as the slasher and arrested. Zoro initially moves to fight back, but then recalls Kin'emon's orders to stay to his role. When they had reached Wano, Kin'emon warned them that the shogun, Kurozumi Orochi, has the backing of Kaidou, so attacking him or his subordinates would draw the Emperor's wrath. Thus, they were tasked with laying low among the populace.
Later, a magistrate is seen cutting down a straw dummy, but says that a sword needs to draw human blood to become stronger. A tied-up Zoro is then brought before him to face judgement for the crimes he was framed for. The next morning, a messenger proclaims that the street murderer has been caught and sentenced to seppuku, and Usopp is appalled, though ultimately not surprised, to find out it is Zoro. In the magistrate's plaza, Zoro is given the seppuku blade to use on himself. In the meantime, the magistrate examines Shusui, heavily admiring the blade once wielded by the legendary Wano samurai Ryuma and wondering how Zoro acquired it after it was stolen 23 years ago. The magistrate looks forward to possessing Shusui, but as Zoro picks up the seppuku blade, he smells blood on the magistrate, causing him to identify him as the slasher. Zoro then imbues his blade with Busoshoku Haki and unleashes a flying slash that cuts down the magistrate. Apologizing to Kin'emon, Zoro proceeds to cut down the magistrate's subordinates as he works to get his swords back.
Meanwhile, Luffy is woken up after a crab pinches his nose, and he finds himself washed up on a beach with the Thousand Sunny. Luffy stands in front of the Sunny, trying to figure out what had happened, when he suddenly hears a commotion in the forest caused by two animals fighting, and he shouts as a komainu is sent tumbling towards him.

Right after Zoro's attack on the magistrate, the magistrate's remaining subordinates race to cut him down. Zoro holds them off with the seppuku blade and a stolen sword, and after the latter gets broken, he makes his way to the magistrate's platform where he reacquires his three swords. With all of them equipped, Zoro unleashes a massive whirlwind attack that overpowers all his enemies and destroys the magistrate's home. In the aftermath, Zoro's wanted poster is put up across the city. Franky is surprised when he hears the news and Robin is covertly shocked to see Zoro's poster. Usopp is left aghast seeing it as well, which causes a police officer to suspect he knows Zoro. Usopp denies this and lies that Zoro's actions made him fear for his family's safety, and the policeman assures him that Zoro will be captured. Meanwhile, Zoro drinks sake under a bridge before seeing his wanted poster.
On a beach, Luffy tries figuring out how he got here when he hears a commotion in the forest nearby, and a komainu named Komachiyo then comes tumbling toward him. Komachiyo crashes into the Thousand Sunny, which annoys Luffy. A giant baboon then emerges from the forest and unsheathes a sword before charging at Komachiyo, resulting in a brawl between the two of them. Luffy leaves them be and gazes out at the ocean, recalling what had happened when he and his crew were being pulled into the whirlpool. Sanji had decided to take Nami, Carrot, Chopper, and Brook to land, and Luffy ballooned himself to give Sanji a trampoline. After Sanji took everyone else to the air, Luffy prepared to jump to land as well, only for the octopus that had stowed away to hold him back, which caused Luffy to go into the water and wash up here with the Sunny. Luffy does not know whether or not he made it to Wano.
Meanwhile, two Waiters ride a Madsaurus through the forest near the beach, with one of them carrying a bag containing O-Tama, a girl whom they kidnapped. Tama tries to claim innocence, but the scout clearly recalls her threatening for the Kozuki Family to take revenge on them, which was insolent and illegal speech. They consider selling her to a brothel after they apprehend the intruder spotted on the nearby beach, and they plan with their superior to knock him out and enslave him. As they reach the beach, the first Waiter takes aim at Luffy, but the pirate captain notices his presence and dodges the Waiter's first shot. As the Waiter lines up to fire again, Luffy punches him from afar, knocking him out. The second Waiter remains conscious despite being heavily injured, and orders the baboon to stop fighting Komachiyo and attack Luffy. The baboon obliges, but Luffy uses Haoshoku Haki to make it submit. As the dumbfounded Waiter tries to attack Luffy himself, Tama escapes and hits him over the head with a staff. The attack only makes him angry and he chases her, but Luffy then punches him into the distance. Tama immediately surrenders to Luffy, and when he assures her he will not do anything to her, she uses this moment as a distraction. She then pulls a piece of kibi dango off her cheek and offers it to the baboon, but it aggressively scares her away. She runs behind Luffy and throws the kibi dango at the baboon, where it lands in its mouth and tames it. Tama introduces herself and Komachiyo to Luffy, and reveals to him that he is indeed in Wano, in the region of Kuri.

Tama explains to Luffy how she was hunted down by the evil men after shopping in town, prompting Komachiyo to protect her from Hihimaru. She enthusiastically offers to make Luffy a meal to thank him for coming to her rescue, and so they hide the Thousand Sunny in a cave by the shore, and make their way into the dense bamboo forest so the young girl can return home. On the way, Tama tells Luffy that he is strong and kind, and while she detests most pirates, Luffy is the kind of pirate she likes. Luffy asks if she lives in a village, but Tama states that she lives alone with her master, and declares her dream of becoming a bewitching ninja.
Inside her house, Tama carefully prepares a tall bowl of rice as Luffy admires the modest household. She serves the rice to Luffy, who befittingly scarfs it down. He wastes no time asking for seconds, however Tama tells Luffy that what he just ate was all she made, as Luffy respectfully buries his disappointment. Suddenly, Tama's own stomach growls violently, and she quickly excuses herself. The birds outside scatter, as an imposing figure soon approaches.
In Tama's absence, Luffy commends the girl for her generosity and her delicious food, despite the portions. His thoughts are interrupted by the sudden barging in of the imposing man, who demands to know who Luffy is. After briefly mistaking the man for his friend Usopp, due to the familiar looking nose on his Tengu mask, the man notices the empty rice bowl beside Luffy and angrily draws his blade to attack him. Tama is seen drinking from a creek near the house enduring an aching stomach, before witnessing Luffy crashing out from the house.
The man scolds Luffy for eating the rice, to which Luffy replies that Tama willingly cooked it for him. The man bemoans over Tama's true situation. Forced to sell woven hats, Tama hardly earns enough money to feed one person alone. Every birthday, she saves up her money to buy rice at the market, the very rice she had recently fed to Luffy. Luffy notices the ruined remains of houses around him. Tama runs up and confronts the man, calling him her master, and asking for forgiveness, only to collapse from some sort of ailment. As the two rush to her care, the master explains that she must've drank poisonous river water, polluted by Kaidou's factories, to curb her hunger. He says Tama remains in this forest because she is waiting for none other than Luffy's brother, Ace, to return. However, Luffy unceremoniously informs Tama that Ace is dead, causing her to erupt in a tantrum of disbelief, before passing out all together.
As Tama rests inside, the man, named Hitetsu, criticizes Luffy's lack of sensitivity, but Luffy insists that it doesn't change the fact that Ace won't come back, and that Tama waits in vain. Hitetsu elaborates on the history of their village, and how it was annihilated roughly a year ago by X Drake and his soldiers. While the Flower Capital of Wano Country prospers, the smaller villages have become wastelands of poverty and starvation, courtesy of Kaidou's weapon factories. Hitetsu then enlightens Luffy on Ace's arrival in the country. Around four years ago, Ace and a handful of pirates washed ashore on their village. Having little food, and little options, the villagers tied the pirates up and stole their food supply. After allowing the village to finish eating his food, Ace easily freed himself using his Devil Fruit power, and rather than retaliate, he headed into the forest to find more food for them. With Tama taking an especial shine to him, Ace remained for a number of weeks to aid the village, before finally disembarking.
Luffy contemplates his brother having stood on the same land he finds himself in, along with the impact he left on it. The episode concludes with a band of swordsmen led by Basil Hawkins on their way to investigate the incident involving their two watchmen. Hawkins instructs his men not to report it to Kaidou.

Buena Festa contacts the bounty hunter Cidre to reveal to him that Douglas Bullet will be attending the upcoming Pirates Festival. Cidre looks forward to killing all the pirates in attendance, whose combined bounties are projected to total over 10,000,000,000, but is intent on taking down Bullet especially. Festa says that Bullet is not the only attraction, as Monkey D. Luffy has also been invited, but Cidre reveals that his guild is already working on taking down the Straw Hat Pirates.
Out at sea, the Straw Hats are under attack by the Cidre Guild, who are flying on saucer-shaped vessels. Under the command of Ginger and Guarana, they blast the Thousand Sunny with carbonated water from special guns. The Straw Hats take down many of the members, but they are still overwhelmed, so they manage to escape using Coup de Burst. After landing, the crew recognizes that the Cidre Guild uses carbonation in their attacks like the Sunny does, and they immediately go to repair the damage on the Sunny. This leads them to find out that the ship's cola supply has run out, and they decide to get more as soon as possible in case the Cidre Guild attacks them again. Fortunately, they very soon reach an island, and Luffy volunteers to head out and buy a barrel of cola.
Luffy ventures on the island to find it contains pools of carbonated water, and sits with his feet in a pool as he drinks a bottle of cola. After drinking it all, he runs into the ramune saleswoman Caramel, who reveals that he can only buy a whole barrel of carbonated drink from the island's factory. However, she warns that the island is under the control of the Cidre Guild. Luffy runs toward the factory, but is confronted by Ginger and his subordinates. Luffy battles them, but is hit by a powerful carbonated liquid attack, sending him falling into a sinkhole, where he is swept away by an underground river.
Elsewhere on the island, Boa Hancock is having a bath when Luffy suddenly emerges from one of the spouts. Hancock is very flustered and happy to see him again. However, Guarana reports to Cidre that Hancock and Luffy are together on the island, and Cidre decides to take the opportunity to take down both of them and blame Hancock's death on Luffy. Ginger then leads his forces to Hancock's bathing location, where they are attacked by Boa Sandersonia, Boa Marigold, and Elder Nyon. However, Ginger blasts through them and the wall, and they enter the bath. Luffy stands in front of Hancock to keep her Hoof of the Soaring Dragon hidden, but Hancock takes a stand as well and assists in attacking them. Nyon gives Hancock her clothes, and the group takes down all of Ginger's subordinates. Being the last one standing, Ginger unleashes carbon dioxide gas, forcing Luffy and Hancock to escape together while Sandersonia, Marigold, and Nyon are split up from them.
Guarana reports to Cidre that Luffy and Hancock are heading toward the factory, and Cidre decides to go after them himself. Near the factory, Luffy apologizes for getting Hancock involved in the recent fight, but Hancock is happy to see him, thinking they would not reunite until the Pirates Festival. Luffy does not know what that is, and she reveals that it is an event that happens at random intervals where powerful pirates gather from all over the world. Luffy is intrigued by this, but Cidre then flies in and attacks, blowing a hole in the ground with a carbonation-powered punch. Luffy tells him he just wants cola, but Cidre says he will not sell any to pirates. He and his subordinates confront Luffy and Hancock, and he charges toward Luffy to acquire his 100th kill.

Cidre charges toward Luffy and their fists clash, resulting in a large impact that the Straw Hats see from the coast. They are in the midst of attacking the Cidre Guild members when the latter group reveals that they have no loyalty to Cidre and are enslaved to him. Back near the factory, Guarana and her forces fly in to join Cidre, and Hancock turns all of Guarana's subordinates to stone. Guarana activates two swords of carbonated water to attack Hancock, and Luffy and Cidre continue clashing, with Luffy's punches being powerful enough to match Cidre's carbonation-enhanced attacks. Luffy manages to repel Cidre by ballooning himself, sending Cidre crashing into a cliff. Cidre is angered by Luffy's actions, recalling how he was left injured in a destroyed city many years ago by Douglas Bullet. Ginger then comes riding in to attack, but Cidre decides for them to retreat into the factory in order to activate their most powerful rig.
Cidre enters the factory while Guarana, Ginger, and their subordinates guard the outside, but Luffy manages to avoid them by pulling himself into the factory. Hancock, Sandersonia, and Marigold confront Guarana and Ginger, and Hancock uses her agility to avoid their carbonated attacks as she lands hits on them, causing them to be turned to stone. Meanwhile, Luffy races through the factory until he finds Cidre putting on his rig. With this rig, Cidre dons barrels on his arms that rapidly spin, and he hits Luffy with an attack so powerful it sends him crashing through several walls. Luffy is barely hurt by the attack, though Cidre's power remains an issue. However, Cidre does quickly run out of carbonated water and is forced to replenish his barrels. Eventually, he hits Luffy out of the factory, and as he stands over the pirate, he declares his intention of bringing down every pirate to get his revenge as well as money. Luffy is not impressed by Cidre's weakness and lack of resolve, and attacks him with Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gun. After a brief clash, Luffy overpowers Cidre and defeats him. He then sees an invitation to the Pirates Festival land on the ground.
Later, Buena Festa hears that Cidre has been defeated and laughs derisively at the bounty hunter's lack of strength despite his hype. Festa looks forward to Luffy meeting Bullet at the Pirates Festival, saying that he could change the world with this event. Back at the Cidre Guild's island, the liberated Cidre Guild members give the Straw Hats many barrels of cola for free as they reunite with the ones they were separated from, including Caramel. Luffy reveals to Hancock that he received an invitation to the Pirates Festival, and bids her a temporary farewell. As the Straw Hats sail back out to sea, Luffy reveals the invitation to his crew, and to their shock, Robin reads that this year's Expo will include a hunt for Gol D. Roger's treasure. Luffy is excited to go there, and the crew sets sail to Delta Island where the Expo will be taking place, along with the crews of the Worst Generation. As they near the island, Douglas Bullet proclaims that only one person will survive this upcoming competition.

As he stands atop the tree over Hitetsu's house, Luffy remembers Ace dying in his arms on Marineford two years ago. As Hitetsu comes out, Luffy asks him where he can find food, water, and a doctor, saying he wants to take Tama there. Hitetsu says that one could find those things in the nearby town across the wasteland, but warns Luffy that it would be a dangerous journey with the Beasts Pirates roaming around. However, Luffy is undeterred, telling Hitetsu that he is strong. Hitetsu says his foreign clothes are too conspicuous and puts a kimono, obi, and topknot on him. The swordsmith says he cannot leave the town due to undisclosed reasons, but he promises to compensate the cost of the doctor visit later.
Luffy then sees a sword with a purple aura sitting on the wall and decides to take it for his journey. As he picks up Tama and prepares to head out, Hitetsu says he cannot just take the sword, revealing that it is Nidai Kitetsu, which was forged by his ancestor Kotetsu and is one of the great grade Meito. Hitetsu starts explaining the Meito grades, only to see Luffy running off toward the town. He chases after Luffy to continue trying to get Nidai Kitetsu back, revealing that it is cursed. Luffy offers to take the sword on Hitetsu's hip instead, but Hitetsu says that that is also a Meito. Luffy then grabs Hitetsu by the nose and tosses him back. Hitetsu tries shouting at him to come back, but to no avail.
Komachiyo then comes running after Luffy, allowing him and Tama to ride on his back toward the town. Tama then wakes up, but as she looks at Luffy, she immediately remembers him telling her about Ace's death. She cries out and starts hitting Luffy, calling him a liar and saying that there is no way Ace is dead since he made a promise with her to return. When he came to Wano three years ago, she had asked to join his crew, and he told her he would come back in the future when she had grown up become an enchanting kunoichi. Tama simply cannot accept that this promise would not come to pass, and Luffy is simply resigned to repeating the truth. They then reach the edge of the bamboo forest, and Luffy is shocked as he sees a massive wasteland dotted with factories and wild animals in front of him.
In the Flower Capital, Zoro remains at large and the public is still left worried, wondering why the police have not been able to capture him yet. Zoro is currently camping out in the wasteland, cooking and eating large quantities of meat from several animals that he hunted. Elsewhere in the wasteland, Luffy wants to catch and eat one of the animals, but Tama tells him that their meat is poisoned due to drinking the polluted river water. She reveals that the shogun and Kaidou have a private, unpolluted farm that gives them a wealth of food, and she becomes overwhelmed by hunger as her fever increases. Luffy then sees a woman being chased by two Beasts Pirates in the distance, but Zoro then comes in and quickly takes out the attackers. The woman wishes to repay Zoro, but does not have any sake as he requests. Luffy eventually recognizes Zoro and rushes to embrace him as the two happily reunite. Smelling meat in Zoro's possession, Luffy takes it from him and starts eating it. He reveals the meat is poisoned, and Zoro realizes that that is why he has a stomachache. Zoro then sees Tama laying on Komachiyo's back, and tells Luffy that they need to get going quickly. Suddenly, however, Hawkins and his crew arrive on the scene and confront them. Hawkins recognizes that Luffy has a high chance of being the intruder on Kuri Beach and draws out his sword, saying the only way to survive here it to submit to the strong. Luffy and Zoro pull out their swords, and Zoro says that Kin'emon ordered them to lay low, but Luffy says that they will have to apologize to him later.

Luffy and Zoro encounters Basil Hawkins, who had become one of Kaidou's officers. They begin fighting, with Luffy now armed with a katana. Luffy and Zoro decimate Hawkins' troops.
A giant lizard attacks Luffy. Luffy takes the animal lizard and throws it at Hawkins, who impales the animal with a straw sword. Zoro attacks Hawkins with a flying slash, but one of Hawkins' subordinates mysteriously ends up getting slashed instead of him.
Hawkins explains his Devil Fruit power; he has straw dolls hidden inside his body which each represent one of his soldiers. Whenever he is attacked, he simply transfers the damage to one of his dolls, and in turn damaging the person the doll represents while leaving Hawkins unharmed. Hawkins suggests playing a "game," summoning a giant straw monster floating above him.
Hawkins draws a tarot card from his deck. He ends up drawing the "Reverse Fool" card, making his own subordinates fight each other.
Komachiyo suddenly enters into the battlefield and takes away Zoro and Luffy, running away from the battle, while Luffy fights off the chasing soldiers. However, Hawkins draws his second card, the "Reverse Hierophant" card. This makes Hawkins' straw monster chase after Komachiyo, Zoro and Luffy.

Hawkins draws the "Reverse Hierophant" card, sending the straw monster to chase after Komachiyo, armed with a spiked bat. Zoro fights off the monster's attacks. He deals hits to the monster, but Hawkins redirects the damage to his subordinates. The monster then starts shooting nails at Zoro, causing minor wounds, then strikes down on Komachiyo. However, Zoro ends up cutting off the monster's hand. He finishes off the monster with the "Nigiri: Toro Samon" move, cutting the monster into two before it disintegrates.
Although the monster was destroyed, Hawkins is unharmed, redirecting the damage to a subordinate. He draws a third tarot card, choosing the "Hierophant" card. He predicts that someone will help guide Luffy and Zoro to safety.
Luffy and Zoro successfully escape Hawkins but Tama's fever worsens, and Komachiyo approaches a fork in the road. A woman appears, having been hiding in Komachiyo's tail the whole time. She explains that she is the one that Zoro previously saved from pirate assailants. She guides Komachiyo to Okobore Town, where they could go to her teahouse and brew a cure for Tama's condition.
At the teahouse, one of the waitresses is harassed by Urashima, a professional sumo wrestler. Komachiyo arrives, they enter the teahouse, and Zoro scares off Urashima. Inside the teahouse, Luffy grinds the herbs and Tsuru brews the tea. Unbeknownst to them, Luffy is secretly watched from afar by Bepo and other Heart Pirates. They go to Law, who is resting in a tent.
Meanwhile, in Onigashima, Kaido rests with rage in his eyes.

Luffy, Zoro, Tsuru, Komachiyo, and Kiku, settle into the tea house in the destitute Okobore Town to treat Tama's illness. As the child lies in bed, Kiku hands Luffy a crucible of strong medicine. The medicine is very bitter, and Tama puts up some resistance in taking it, but Luffy forces it upon her.
Some time later, Kiku approaches Zoro, who now waits just outside. She offers to nurse Zoro's injuries from his earlier battle. He asserts to the woman that his wounds will heal on their own, but Kiku does not back down, and so Zoro silently complies. Meanwhile, inside the house, Tama wakes from her unconsciousness. Tama evaluates how she is feeling, and affirms everyone that her good health has returned at last. Luffy and the others rejoice, surprised at how quickly the medicine took effect. Despite Tsuru's warning to never again drink from the polluted river, Tama's unbearable hunger seizes her once more, and she begins dashing off to get a drink. Tsuru stops Tama in her tracks, scolding her a second time.
Zoro thanks Kiku as she finishes bandaging him up, and she reflects her gratitude to Zoro for driving off Urashima. Back inside the tea house, Tsuru serves Tama a bowl of sweet red-bean soup, but Tama refuses to accept it, for she is unable to pay for the food, let alone the medical treatment. Tsuru claims that payment is out of the question, but Tama still protests out consideration for Tsuru and Kiku's well being, as food is scarce in Okobore. After politely and repeatedly urging Tama to eat, Tsuru looses her temper and frightens Tama into accepting the meal, threatening to toss the soup into the dusty street otherwise.
Outside, Luffy and Zoro sit beside Tama as the girl reluctantly gazes into the bowl of soup. Luffy reminds Tama that it is after all, her birthday, and encourages her to dig in. The two pirates, along with Tsuru, watch Tama take her first sip. As tears drip into the bowl, and a giddy smile spreads across her face, Tama is elated, pronouncing how delicious the food is, and that this day has has been the greatest of her life. Tsuru is driven to tears herself, but Luffy mulls over Hitetsu's words about how impoverished Tama has been all this time. Luffy remarks how similar the dango in Tama's soup is to her Devil Fruit ability, but Tama responds that the dango made from her power cannot actually fill a person's stomach.
Tama then falls asleep, while Luffy grows furious towards Kaidou and the Beasts Pirates for desecrating Kuri's land and its people. Zoro stops Luffy from nearly blowing his cover to Tsuru, but she sees through both of their disguises, deducing that they are both foreigners. However, she vows not to tell anyone, and begins to explain the history behind the town. A vineyard once known as Paradise Farm was created by the ruling Kozuki Family to feed the village, but when the Beast Pirates and Shogun Orochi usurped the throne, the farm became off limits, and Okobore has become dependent on the little rations permitted to them by Bakura Town, the city of officials. Unbeknownst to the group, their conversation is being spied on by an enemy.
As Tsuru continues to expound, and a powerful arrow is fired at her head from some distance, which is skillfully blocked by Zoro's blade. With Tsuru startled speechless, the arrow somehow remains airbone, still pressing against the face of his sword, before Zoro finally deflects it, much to the assailant's shock. The enemy reveals himself, flying high on a pair of bat wings, and discloses his bat SMILE abilities. Zoro and Luffy challenge Batman, as he declares to them his duty of silencing any rebellious spirit among Orochi's subjects, and launches a storm of arrows their way. Zoro swiftly parries all the incoming attacks with his sword, however Batman exhibits his ability to freely control the flight pattern of his arrows, enacting the duo to use their Busoshoku Haki to defend themselves. Zoro puts an end to the onslaught with an explosive sword technique. Baffled, the bat-human questions if Zoro could be the one-eyed Ronin outlaw.
Engaged in battle, Luffy and Zoro have left the sleeping Tama unattended, and without warning, she is snatched up suddenly by a second foe. As the quick-footed Gazelleman sprints off with his prize, Luffy and the others are too late to stop him, with Tama awaking in horror, and crying out for Luffy to save her.

Gazelleman barks with laughter as he speeds into the horizon, kidnapping Tama, and with Batman's arrow attacks drawing their attention, Luffy and Zoro are helpless to rescue her. To Zoro and Tsuru's surprise, Kiku grabs a resting katana, and chases after the gazelle human. With his running abilities proving too great to match on foot, Kiku climbs atop Komachiyo to catch up. Realizing he must do the same, Luffy grapples onto Komachiyo, displaying his Gomu Gomu no Mi power before Tsuru and Kiku. Zoro hitches along as they shoot off and board the giant dog. Luffy calls out to Tama, promising to recapture her. However, they are once again assaulted by Batman's arrows. Luffy strikes back by jumping high, and throwing an intensely strong punch, yet Batman withstands the blow, and retreats with his mission fulfilled.
Kiku suggests that the kidnappers are headed to Bakura Town, which is close by. On account of her katana, Zoro voices his suspicions regarding Kiku's actual identity. Kiku ties up her hair and announces that she is a samurai. Meanwhile, Gazelleman contacts his boss, Holed'em. He confirms that he's captured the kid that tamed their baboon guard, and Holed'em gives the order to deliver Tama to him, claiming that she ought to be of use.
In Bakura, a sumo match is commencing in the town square, exciting a large crowd. Urashima, in a nearby bar, is steaming over Zoro putting a stop to his advances on Kiku earlier. His troubles are overheard by Mouseman, who tells the wrestler that he's got the wrong idea about wooing Kiku. He poses that if Urashima were to use his social influence against the poverty-striken woman, destroying all she cares for so that only he remains, leaving her with nowhere else to turn would be much easier than winning her love. They both laugh mischievously over the thought, and Urashima exercises his newfound sense of supremacy by commanding the elderly bar owners to cook their pet raccoon-dog for him to eat.
Tama is brought to Holed'em's dwelling, and is pushed before him. Holed'em's ferocious lion's head has Tama reeling in fear, as Luffy's group closes in on the town's archway. Tama tries to act strong as Holed'em's true appearance comes to light. The lion's face is only attached to the real Holed'em's waist, and has a mind of its own. Holed'em starts to pick a fight with the lion, who retaliates by striking him in the crotch with great force. Holed'em howls in pain, as well as the lion, due to both of them sharing the same body. His subordinates question why they never seem to remember such a weakness. After regaining his senses, Holed'em interrogates Tama about how she tamed Hihimaru. Refusing to disclose her ability to the enemy, Tama claims that animals are simply fond of her. Holed'em however is not fooled, and already knows from his men that her power has something to do with pulling on her cheek. He orders his men to fetch a pair of pinchers and seizes Tama, while she shouts out for Luffy once more.
As the town guards brace for Luffy's intrusion, Bepo is seen overlooking the valley, and is appalled when he identifies Luffy. Resting in a tent, Luffy's presence is reported to Law. He is enraged to find out that Luffy is jeopardizing their plan by invading Bakura Town, and rallies his crew to intercept them, as Tama's cries for help further ignite Luffy's anger.

Luffy and Zoro enter Bakura Town, unintentionally making a scene and drawing attention of the townspeople. Luffy knocks out the citizens with his Haoshoku Haki. Kiku explains that the town was once a vibrant castle town, but when Orochi took over, he seized the town for his own subordinates.
A sumo wrestler is suddenly thrown into the air and onto Komachiyo. A sumo match is going on and Urashima was decimating his opponents. Urashima sees Kiku and is happy to see her there, assuming that she wants to marry him. He orders the other sumo wrestlers to take Kiku to him. Luffy and Zoro fight off some of the sumo wrestlers, but the wrestlers get the upper hand, pick up Kiku and take her to Urashima. Luffy and Zoro consider intervening, but remember that she is a samurai and can defend herself.
The crowd jeers Kiku for being a low-class teahouse waitress, but Urashima insults the audience, calling them "lowly bastards." He leans in to kiss Kiku, but she jumps out of the way, takes out her sword, and cuts off Urashima's topknot.
Enraged, Urashima attacks Kiku, but Luffy defends her. They fight fiercely, pushing against each other.

Luffy continues his pushing battle with Urashima. Though originally at a standstill, they eventually push each other back and struggle to stay in the arena. They push themselves back up and Luffy declares an official sumo match.
Luffy dodges Urashima's hand slaps, then attempts to lift Urashima up and throw him out of the ring. At one point, Urashima throws him out of the ring, but he manages to launch himself back in. Eventually, Urashima resorts to using illegal moves in attempt to defeat him.
Holed'em hears about the sumo match. He does not intervene, as he is focusing on torturing Tama.
Back at the match, Luffy exclaims that Urashima cannot beat him. Enraged, Urashima uses a slap move, but Luffy knocks him back using a Haki-imbued punch. He then finishes Urashima off using the "Gomu Gomu no Gigant Tsuppari" move, striking him with an inflated hand and sending him flying out of the ring.
Urashima crashes through several buildings before crashing into the house of Holed'em, who was attempting to tear off Tama's cheek. Holed'em is crushed by the sumo wrestler while Tama is sent flying out of the house.
Meanwhile, Law prepares to go out from their hideout and meet with Luffy. However, Law finds that Bepo was suffering from food poisoning from eating the fish from the polluted river.
Back at the sumo ring, Luffy demands to see the town's boss to save Tama.

After defeating the yokozuna Urashima, Luffy demands to see the boss of Bakura Town to rescue Tama. The crowd sees them as rebels and begin attacking them. Luffy and Zoro fight off the crowd, and Kiku also joins in armed with a katana. Luffy learns that the boss of the town was Holed'em, but mishears his name as "Ball-de-boo."
Meanwhile, the children of the poverty-stricken Okobore Town continue to face hunger. Tsuru needs to treat another child who drank the polluted river water out of hunger. Some labourers from this town work at Bakura Town, where food and clean water are plentiful. One labourer complains about his meagre wage but is beaten.
Back at Holed'em's house, Holed'em is crushed by Urashima. Tama attempts to escape but Holed'em's lion grabs her leg. Holed'em lifts Urashima's unconscious body and gets up, but fire breaks out in his house. Luffy calls out for Holed'em, mistaking his name to be "Ball-de-boo."
At the town gate, Speed, another Beasts Pirates officer, appears. Speed, who has eaten a horse SMILE fruit, is shocked to see the town destroyed and Holed'em's house on fire.
Holed'em finally shows himself to Luffy standing on a pagoda rooftop, with Tama being held in his lion's mouth. Strangely, he accuses Luffy with affiliating himself with a certain "Shutenmaru." Luffy is shocked to see a lion embedded in Holed'em's stomach.
Hawkins approaches Bakura Town to help fight against Luffy. Law and the Heart Pirates spot him. Meanwhile, Luffy prepares to fight Holed'em.

Conflict continues to unfold in Bakura Town. Holed'em bellows away on the rooftops as Kamijiro clutches Tama inside its mouth, while her friends in the street can do nothing but watch. He orders Luffy, Zoro, and Kiku to do stand down, threatening to crush Tama under the lion's jaws. Holed'em taunts Luffy and accuses him of coveting Tama's ability for his own purposes. He is certain that the three of them are thieves working under a man called Shutenmaru, but despite Luffy's obliviousness, Holed'em is convinced that his theory is correct.
Kiku advises Luffy not to antagonize the Shinuchi, as the Beasts Pirates practically hold the entire town hostage. If a revolution were to break out, Jack, who has likely survived the attack from Zunesha in the past, would come to claim his revenge. This knowledge only irritates Luffy more so.
With Tama's life at his mercy, Holed'em carries on provoking Luffy, while a treasure ship full of food enters the block, overseen by Speed and her guards. It is the harvest from Paradise Farm. The mountainous stock of food charms Luffy's appetite, but he is soon reminded the young Tama's struggles with starvation, and his rage continues to swell. Luffy appoints Zoro to "handle" the massive cargo ship, to Kiku's startled confusion, as the two begin loosening the shoulders. Hawkins and his men ride into town, but are halted by a lone sword-wielding man hiding his face behind a basket. The man is secretly Law.
Back at the center of town, Holed'em authorizes his men to attack Luffy and his allies, once again reminding them that Tama's life is at stake. Regardless, Zoro effortlessly sends a number of his samurai flying. Holed'em berates him, intending to follow through on his word, as he gives Kamijiro permission to chew the girl up. Suddenly, Luffy bounces up to reach them, strikes Kamijiro's nose, and grabs hold of Tama, all before the lion is even able to bite down. Holed'em is astonished by Luffy's quickness, while Tama delights in her rescue. At the same time, Zoro is plowing through Speed's forces protecting the golden ship.
Preparing to counterattack, Holed'em lights up his sword with Kamijiro's fire breath, and unfastens the blade into many links, baring a longer-ranged weapon, similar to a whip. He boasts about his powerful Trick Mechanism Sword, and swings it in Luffy's direction. Meanwhile, Kiku is taken hostage by a large pirate. Zoro, caught up in fighting, invites Kiku to drop her delicate facade, and and put her swordplay to work. Kiku finally concedes, frees herself, and joins Zoro's battle to hijack Speed's treasure ship.
On the rooftops, Luffy is weaving around Holed'em's giant flaming sword. Upon noticing Tama's wounded cheek from Holed'em's persecution, Luffy becomes determined to land the finishing blow. He then reels his fist back an excessive distance, and lands a smoldering Red Hawk attack on Holed'em's gut, knocking him out and off the roof. Tama is dazzled, recognizing the parallels between Luffy and his renowned brother.

Luffy defeats Holed'em, sending him crashing to the ground, then takes Tama and flees. Zoro, Kiku and Komachiyo also flee on Speed's food cart. Speed sends soldiers to chase after them.
Luffy gets cornered by angry citizens, but easily defeats them. He hops onto Speed's back, mistaking her for a real horse. Although Speed is hostile to Luffy, Tama uses her Devil Fruit ability, creates a mochi, and feeds it to Speed, taming her. Speed immediately begins following Tama's commands, running away and helping them escape. Luffy finds Zoro's cart and hops on, but leaves to deal with "the most important thing."
Meanwhile, Law confronts Hawkins in the street, disguised with a gladiator helmet. Law declares a battle, and Hawkins immediately recognizes Law based on his "Room" move and hand tattoos. Law attacks Hawkins, but Hawkins redirects the damage to other subordinates. 
Law fiercely fights against Hawkins. However, Hawkin receives a call saying that Luffy had defeated Holed'em and Jack has been notified. Then, Zoro's food cart arrives and Law hops on. Law berates Zoro for viciously provoking a fight with Kaidou's men. 

The early beginnings of Luffy's pirate adventure are reiterated, set in a similar world, but with notable differences. For instance, this Luffy was inspired to become a pirate by his grandfather, who is a pirate himself rather than a marine.
Luffy is out at sea, when he encounters Ann and her pet, Balloon. They are both captured by Shupeal, a warlord equipped with psychic powers. Imprisoned on Shupeal's ship, Ann explains to Luffy that the maniacal captain is after Balloon's magical blood and that she intends to save her friend. Luffy breaks both of them out of jail using his ability.
Ann fights the crewmates for Balloon's freedom, only to be cheated by Shupeal. Luffy intrudes upon the main deck, stopping Shupeal's scheme before he can attack the girl. In a last-ditch effort, Shupeal destroys his own ship with his powers, and flies off with the captive Balloon.
Ann grieves over her failure to rescue her friend, before Luffy catapults himself away, and gives chase to the villain. He rains down onto Shupeal's flying broom, delivers a final Gomu Gomu no Pistol attack, and recovers Balloon. Luffy returns to the wrecked ship and reunites the two at last. As he and Ann part ways, Luffy sails off to new horizons.

Zoro largely ignores Law berating him for Luffy's actions. Komachiyo continues carrying the ship of food with Zoro and Law on it. Beasts Pirates chase after them. Luffy also steals a giant tub of water meant as a tribute to Orochi, then runs away. 
Komachiyo rides the ship of food back to Okobore Town, feeding its starving citizens. However, they are confronted by Rabbitman, Batman and Snakeman, who are angry that they are eating their stolen food. However, Luffy arrives and crushes them with the giant tub of water. The citizens cheer, happy to be saved from their starvation. However, Law warns that Luffy's actions are an act of rebellion against Wano Country. Luffy ignores this warning, giving Tama an apple as a thanks for feeding him earlier.
Back at Bakura Town, the fire in Holed'em's house continues to spread while Holed'em remains unconscious. However, the lion wakes up. Also, Hawkins informs his higher-ups about Luffy, Zoro and Law.
The citizens of Okobore Town take the food in the treasure ship, then take the ship apart for building material. Luffy's actions remind Tama of Ace; Ace promised Tama to help ease the country's hunger. Tama says her final goodbyes to Luffy before riding back home on Speed. Luffy's group also leaves to climb a mountain and find the ruins of Oden's castle. Kiku gets suspicious of them because they plan to visit Oden's castle. Law explains that at the mountain there is an "unbelievable truth."
At the top of the mountain, there are graves marked for Kanjuro, Raizo, Momonosuke, Kin'emon, and Oden. 

Heading to the ruins of Oden castle atop Komachiyo, Luffy grows restless and inquisitive after hearing Law, Kiku, and Zoro mention the existence of ghosts residing at the castle. The group notices that they are being chased by a shadowy beast, and Zoro volunteers to fend it off while the rest continue on. Zoro engages the creature, a giant white tiger wielding a sword in its mouth.
In the Flower Capital, the scene shifts to a school classroom in the middle of a lesson. The young students are learning about the strict isolationism of Wano Country, as well as the downfall of the Kozuki Family. The teacher paints Oden and his samurai as foolish, treacherous men, while showcasing her strange ability to elongate her neck to her students. The children regard Shogun Orochi as a hero who brought peace to Wano. An eves-dropping old man is highly disturbed by the classroom's teachings.
In a different location, the city's money manager, Kyoshiro, is drinking with a friend as he shamelessly belittles Orochi for being a coward. Robin, who happens to be present preforming for the two, listens in. Kyoshiro muses about the supposed final words of Oden's wife uttered 20 years ago, before snoozing off mid-story. He then resumes, claiming that Oden's wife placed a curse on Orochi, that the nine samurai of the family will return in 20 years time to kill Orochi and restore the throne. Kyoshiro is driven to laughter, amused that Orochi seems to be frightened by the empty threats of dead men.
Luffy and the others arrive at the castle ruins, as Zoro's battle in the woods rages on. Kiku isn't able to bare the sight of the destruction, and stays idly behind. As Law leads the way, he directs Luffy towards a cluster of nine distinct grave posts. As he inspects them closer, Luffy is taken back to see graves marked for Kin'emon and Momonosuke. He remembers how he wasn't able to contact the samurai while nearing the island, and Law confesses that he too hasn't heard from them in some time, but Luffy refuses to assume the worst has happened. Just then, a chilling presence begins lurking towards them. Luffy and Law steel themselves, before realizing who it is. It's Kin'emon, alive after all, who verifies that he's been having indigestion for days, and has been confined to the bathroom all the while. Relieved that Law was only miscommunicating, Luffy is glad to see Kinemon again, who is then suddenly embraced by Kiku, indicating that she and Kin'emon know each other well. Soon after, Momonosuke enters the scene. He excitedly reunites with Luffy, and informs him that Inuarashi has likewise made it to Wano.
The whereabouts of Nami, Chopper, Sanji, Brook, and Carrot are finally shown. After attempting to search for their captain, the group decided to make their way to the castle as per instruction. They've now arrived just in time to reassemble with Luffy and the samurai. They all cheerfully welcome each other back, and Law states that he was the bandit lifting food from Paradise Farm, disclosing that they should have a clean food supply.
Kin'emon invites Law and the Straw Hat Pirates to take shelter in the castle's remains. There, Kin'emon admits to his comrades that he has one last secret yet to tell them, but he fears it would be too unbelievable. Luffy implores Kin'emon to tell them everything, and Kin'emon proclaims that he, Kiku, Momonosuke, Kanjuro, and Raizo are not from this time period. In reality, they all came from 20 years in the past, and have come to present-day Wano to fulfill their commitment.

Luffy and his friends are rattled after Kin'emon informs them that he and his fellow samurai have traveled across time from Wano, two decades in the past. Kin'emon enlightens them, and begins recounting the history of the kingdom, as well as Momonosuke's father, Kozuki Oden. 
Many years ago, the Flower Capital was ruled by Kozuki Sukiyaki. Oden was an unruly ronin, who was banished from the city for his violent inclinations. Free to roam wherever he chose, Oden happened upon at the lawless region of Wano, a valley notorious for its brutality and desecration day in and day out. The young Oden appeared on the scene, cutting down the mass of bandits and other troublemakers swarming the village. He sought to challenge the criminals' boss, Ashura Doji, to a duel. After coming out on top, the horde of bandits then recognized Oden as their new leader. Oden then put his underlings to work, rebuilding the village, farming crops, bridging communities, and bringing new life the region that would become the present day Bakura Town. By Sukiyaki's appointment, Oden became the daimyo of Kuri, despite his disorderly behavior.
Meanwhile, Inuarashi is reminiscing about Oden as well, recalling a time when his younger self, along with Nekomamushi, were castaways on the shore of Kuri. Oden rescued to duo from persecution at hands of the locals, and took them under his wing. Inuarashi weeps for his master's outgoing kindness, acclaiming that Oden's heroism was respected by Whitebeard himself, and even Gol D. Roger.
Zoro emerges victorious over his battle with the giant tiger, when a nearby fishing pier grabs his attention. As the samurai lament over the memories of their lost master, the Straw Hat Pirates are brimming with anger aimed at the Beasts Pirates and the scheming Orochi. On the night the mutiny had taken place 20 year prior, Oden fought to his last breath, before he ultimately fell to his executioners. Kin'emon, Kanjuro, Raizo, Kiku, Inuarashi, and Nekomamushi fled from the site of their execution, and headed for Oden's castle in order to save Oden's children, and his wife, Kozuki Toki. The two minks were tragically apprehended, but the samurai had no time to look back. They approached the scorching castle, slashing through the monstrous assailants.
Oden's castle was on the brink of collapse, but the four samurai arrived to find Toki, Momonosuke, and his sister alive, trapped by the fire. To his shock, Toki declined Kin'emon's attempt to help her escape. She commanded the four to make off with Momonosuke, and leave to the future. Without much time to explain, Toki claimed to possess the powers of the Toki Toki no Mi, and that she had the ability to send them forward in time. She had used this power on herself many times before, but decided that she must surrender herself to fate then and there. Though Kin'emon did not fully understand, he pledged that he and the other samurai would avenge the Kozuki Family, and restore justice to the Wano Oden worked tirelessly to forge. Momonosuke cries out for his mother, and without admonition, he and the four samurai appear above the castle's torched remains, in abrupt daylight.
Witnessing the sight of their own graves, and discovering the massive industrialization of the country they once knew, Kin'emon and the others came to terms with the fact that they have indeed traveled into the future. They were made unpleasantly aware of the kingdom's sorry state, and how Oden's legacy had been slandered with hateful propaganda. Amidst all this regrettable change however, Kin'emon found that there was a collection of citizens who remained loyal to Oden, and offered themselves to help defend the Kozuki Family's honor.

Kin'emon continues telling the story of the past. Now that Kaidou had taken over Wano Country, he decided to recruit allies to fight for them. Raizo, Kanjuro and Momonosuke escaped the country to Zou in search of more allies. However, one by one they accidentally got separated in Zou, Dressrosa, and Punk Hazard. 
Kin'emon explains that to take down Kaidou and Orochi, the Ninja-Pirate-Mink-Samurai Alliance will carry out a raid on Onigashima during the country's Fire Festival. The Straw Hats who arrived at Wano Country earlier have previously been assigned a task to prepare for the raid. Zoro and Usopp recruit allies by handing out encrypted flyers, Robin disguises as a geisha to learn about Orochi's plans, and Franky works as a construction worker to find the blueprints for Kaidou's mansion. 
The other Straw Hats are also assigned a task. Brook will carry food into the capital, Nami will pose as a kunoichi for espionage operations, Sanji will pose as a soba chef to attract allies, and Carrot, Chopper and Kiku will meet up with Inuarashi. Kin'emon uses his Devil Fruit powers to create costumes for them, and also introduces a new ally, Shinobu, another kunoichi.  
Kin'emon continues telling his plan. 

Kin'emon continues revealing his plan for the upcoming raid on Onigashima. Sanji notices that Ashura Doji is among the allies Kin'emon wants to track down, but is also one of Oden's enemies that were defeated. Kin'emon explains that Doji changed his ways and became a servant of the Kozuki Family, but recently returned to being a criminal under the name Shutenmaru. He explains that Shutenmaru is one of his strongest potential allies. 
Meanwhile, Shutenmaru is in the streets of Okobore Town, robbing people who just received food from Luffy. However, he is encountered by Jack of the Beasts Pirates, and they quickly engage in duel. Shutenmaru manages to critically wound Jack.
In Onigashima, Kaidou goes on a drunken rant about Luffy, attacking his subordinates and smashing another flask. Eventually, using his Devil Fruit power, he transforms into a terrifying azure dragon and flies to Kuri.
In Okobore Town, stormy clouds fill the sky, and the citizens immediately recognize, to their shock, that Kaidou has decided to appear in person. Jack and Shutenmaru notice, and so do the Straw Hats, who are hidden away at the Heart Pirates' tent. Kaidou commands Jack to lead him to Luffy.

A drunken Kaidou makes an appearance in Okobore Town in his azure dragon form. Law explains to Kin'emon that he, along with the Straw Hats, were identified by the Beasts Pirates. He explains that Kaidou dealt in an underground SMILE fruit operation led by Doflamingo. However, because Luffy destroyed the factories in both Punk Hazard and Dressrosa, he ended the SMILE fruit operation, meaning that Kaidou is in mad pursuit of Luffy.
Luffy starts running toward the town. Law chases after him while the others stay behind to avoid getting exposed again. However, after seeing the rampage, Kin'emon and Kiku also go because Tsuru was residing in that town.
At Okobore Town, Shutenmaru runs from Kaidou. Kaidou approaches him and offers to form an alliance with him, but Shutenmaru refuses. Then, Hawkins appears and lies to Kaidou, telling him that Law and Luffy are at the ruins of Oden's castle. Kaidou believes him and leaves to the castle. 
However, as the Straw Hats were hiding near Oden's castle, they were in direct danger of Kaidou's attacks. Kaidou unleashes his devastating "Bolo Breath" move, sending a jet of fire destroying Oden's castle, blasting through the mountain, and into many towns. Shocked by Kaidou's dragon power, Luffy screams out his name.

Kaidou's Bolo Breath destroys Oden's castle, leaving the witnesses in shock, including Luffy, Hawkins and Jack. In anger, Luffy chases after Kaidou, who unleashes a drunken rampage on Okobore Town. He jumps into the sky and uses his Elephant Gun move to strike Kaidou in the head, causing him to fall to the ground.
Kin'emon and Kiku, having survived Kaidou's attack, get up. To Kin'emon's shock, however, he finds a smoldering gap where Oden's castle was. He goes to the town in case Kaidou wakes up and rampages again, while Kiku goes to the mountain to find Momonosuke and the other Straw Hats. Luffy also heads in the same direction, only to find Speed's injured body. 
Speed explains that she was taking Tama back home, but was encountered by Kaidou. They were attacked by Kaidou's fire breath. Luffy laments Tama's death. Out of anger, he shouts out Kaidou's name, making the dragon wake up.
They almost immediately engage in fierce battle. Kaidou manages to knock Luffy into the ground using his tail, but Luffy gets up. In Tama's memory, he uses the Elephant Gatling Gun on Kaidou, pummeling him with giant Haki-infused fists.

Luffy pummels Kaidou using his Elephant Gatling Gun move. Despite this, Kaidou is unharmed and he knocks Luffy back with a belch. He then proceeds to attack Luffy with his tail and shoots fireballs, but Luffy evades the attacks and knocks Kaidou to the ground using his Grizzly Magnum move. 
Kaidou is largely unharmed by Luffy's attacks and turns back into his human form. He gets up and is dizzy from intoxication, but Luffy continues to fight, transforming into his Gear 4: Boundman form. He pummels Kaidou with the Kong Organ Gun move, sending him flying and crashing into many buildings.  
Despite this, Kaidou gets up. They participate in a final clash, and Kaidou ends with victory and defeats Luffy using the Raimei Hakke move. 
Law attempts to rescue Luffy but is stopped by Hawkins, who launches a Seastone nail into his arm, preventing him from using his Devil Fruit ability. Hawkins attacks Law with his straw sword, but Law gets the nail out in time and escapes using his Shambles move. 
Kaidou stands over Luffy, scoffing at his aspirations to be the Pirate King.

After having defeated Luffy, Kaidou orders his men to imprison him. However, even while unconscious, Luffy manages to use Haoshoku Haki and knock out the goons. Despite this, Kaidou transforms into his dragon form and goes back to Onigashima.
After escaping Hawkins, Law ends up in a forest, still injured by the nail. However, Hawkins finds Luffy and arrests him. Meanwhile, Okobore Town has been devastated by Kaidou's attack. Tsuru tends to an injured old man, where Kin'emon, in disguise, sees her for the first time in twenty years. He also sees Doji ride by. 
Kiku finds a giant sinkhole where Oden's castle once was. She finds that the Straw Hats were inside; Shinobu had used her Devil Fruit to decay the ground, creating a sinkhole. The Straw Hats fell in, avoiding Kaidou's Bolo Breath, and Chopper used his Guard Point to save the others from falling. Meanwhile, Inuarashi finds Tama's unconscious body; she had survived Kaidou's attack and was still breathing.
Wanted posters of Luffy are released throughout the country, and the Straw Hats are shocked that Luffy would take on Kaidou himself. 
Luffy is taken to Udon, Wano Country's industrial district, to be forced into slavery. One of the particularly dangerous prisoners, who is hidden, is fed poisonous fish but the guards are instructed to remove the bones first. However, the guard does not do so. Luffy walks through and glares at the guards. One guard mocks him and attacks him, but the unknown prisoner spits out a sharp fish bone at him, piercing him in the neck. Luffy is sent to his cell and finds Eustass Kid, who also swears revenge on Kaidou. They immediately recognize each other, ending the Wano Country Arc's first act.

Newspapers reach Kuraigana Island, the island where Zoro trained. Dracule Mihawk receives a newspaper from one of the birds. Perona also sees the newspaper and is shocked to see Moria's image on the front page, apparently having carried out a zombie raid. She is happy to hear that Moria is still alive and decides to leave to see him again. Before she leaves, Mihawk tells her that leaving was the best decision, as a strange topic was brought up at the Levely.
Meanwhile, on Fullalead, a island dubbed the "pirate paradise," Blackbeard sits in the shadows near a newspaper depicting Sabo. Then, Moria's army raids the island in search of Absalom. Moria demands to see Teach.
One of Blackbeard's captains, Avalo Pizarro, watches. Then, Moria spots Absalom, to his relief. However, Moria is attacked from behind by an invisible assailant. Moria finds that the attacker, Shiryu, has Absalom's Devil Fruit ability to become invisible. He then finds that "Absalom" was really Catarina Devon in disguise.
Moria realizes, to his horror, that Absalom has been killed for his Devil Fruit powers. Just then, Blackbeard uses his Devil Fruit ability to create a tremor, drawing Moria's attention. He warns Moria through Den Den Mushi not to interfere, then tells the citizens to board his ship.
Blackbeard then informs Moria of recent news. On the fourth day of the Levely, officers of the Revolutionary Army appeared and clashed against Admirals Fujitora and Ryokugyu in an attempt to free Kuma. In other news, Luffy and other members of the Worst Generation are gathered in Wano Country, with Big Mom in mad pursuit of Luffy. Blackbeard then creates another tremor.

As the Wano Country Arc's second act begins, Inuarashi and Doji quickly engage in a swordfight. The battle leads in a standstill. Mid-battle, Inuarashi exclaims that he is here to fulfill Oden's dream of taking over the country again. Suddenly, the battle is interrupted by Kin'emon's fire slash. Doji immediately walks away from the battle. He explains that he is refusing to join the plan because Kin'emon abandoned the country for twenty years.
Back at Hitetsu's house, Tama's injuries are treated by Chopper and a few Mink doctors. She explains that she fainted from fear upon seeing Kaidou, but was otherwise unharmed aside from a few minor scratches. Chopper explains, to her shock, that Luffy had been captured and sent to Udon's excavation camp.
In Udon, Luffy is sentenced to hard labour, where he must carry large blocks of stone. He receives one kibi dango for every five blocks he hauls. However, Eustass Kid runs past, knocking the dango out of Luffy's hand and trampling over it. Kid, who works extremely fast, gets an enormous pile of dumplings to eat.
In the Flower Capital, while the news boy informs the people about various criminals, several of Kin'emon's allies, including Usopp, a Heart Pirate, and Bepo, hand out flyers to recruit allies. Many of these allies mysteriously find the paper in their hands, calling it the work of a ghost. Some recruits are hesitant while some are willing to join.
Meanwhile, Nami and Shinobu spy on Orochi's mansion. Shinobu uses her Devil Fruit powers to decay holes into the attic, where they spy on Orochi's men from above. However, they are caught and barely escape with Shinobu panicking.
In Onigashima, the other two All-Stars of the Beasts Pirates, King and Queen, reprimand Jack for not bringing in enough offerings from Kuri. They also furiously bicker with each other.

Nami and Shinobu are caught spying on Orochi's men in the attic. The soldiers pierce through the ceiling with spears, which causes Shinobu to panic. They climb into the attic, but Nami and Shinobu just manage to escape onto the rooftop. Shinobu reveals that she panicked because she was terrified of sharp objects. Despite being caught, Nami found out where Orochi was stockpiling his weapons. They leave using Shinobu's kite.
Along the way, they see Sanji, who has attracted a line of hungry customers posing as a soba chef. However, he attracts some rivals who spy on him.
Meanwhile, in Udon, Luffy and Kid work furiously to haul stone blocks, each earning a giant pile of dango. However, the warden, Dobon, a SMILE user who rides inside a hippo's mouth, is furious that his food stores have been depleted by Kid and Luffy. The hippo swallows Luffy and Kid, where Dobon could attack them inside the hippo's stomach.
However, even weakened by Seastone handcuffs, Luffy and Kid manage to defeat Dobon, who spills out of the hippo's mouth. The prisoners cheer for them as they walk away.

Sanji becomes popular from his soba shop, but he attracts some unwanted rivals. Members of the Kyoshiro Family approach him and demand that he pays to run his business. When Sanji refuses, the thugs start to attack the shop and terrorize a little girl, knocking her bowl of soba onto the floor. Strangely, tears appear in the girl's eyes but she laughs. 
Sanji is greatly angered by the wasted soba. They quickly begin to fight, and Sanji easily emerges victorious. Franky also joins in and defeats a thug. Sanji then force-feeds the wasted soba to one of the fighters.
After the fighters have been tied up, the little girl appears. She introduces herself as Otoko, a name the Straw Hats find humorous because it means "male." She also reveals that she works as a kamuro (a courtesan's attendant) and worked hard to pay for the soba. A woman chimes in and explains that there is a single oiran (courtesan) named Komurasaki. She also reveals that Robin had been invited to Orochi's mansion.
At Udon's excavation camp, Luffy becomes a celebrity among the prisoners for beating up Dobon. He also gives some food tickets to an old man that he saved earlier. Then, Raizo appears, having snuck into the prison. He reveals that he knows the location of the key to Luffy's Seastone handcuffs, but it is kept under tight security. Raizo disappears and goes to steal the key.
Back at the Flower Capital, Komurasaki walks up to Orochi's mansion.

Komurasaki the oiran parades through the streets of the Flower Capital, stunning the spectators with her beauty.
In Udon, Luffy continues to break rocks but is approached by Caribou, who begs him for food. Previously, Caribou met Luffy in the Sabaody Archipelago and terrorized Fish-Man Island, but was defeated by Luffy. He would later continue his crimes in the New World until being captured by X Drake, and was sent to Udon for hard labour.
Meanwhile, Kyoshiro's henchmen who were defeated by Sanji report to their leader. Kyoshiro is unfazed, but decides to contact Queen to send assassins after Sanji. At the castle, Orochi finally appears as a multi-headed serpent.
At the procession, a group of people threatens to assassinate Komurasaki. However, they are swiftly defeated by guards.
More about one of the assassins, an old man named Bingo, is revealed. Bingo was an old man who fell in love with Komurasaki, who promised him that they could live together if Bingo bought her freedom from the pleasure house. To earn money, Bingo became a miserly moneylender, who sold his storehouse, abandoned his wife, and stopped buying medicine for himself to save money. Sickly and homeless, Bingo finally raised the money to free Komurasaki from the pleasure house.
He would find out, however, that Komurasaki spent Bingo's money on herself, and she had no intention of marrying him. Bingo was humiliated, penniless and heartbroken, and was cruelly beaten by other men. 
Back in the present day, Bingo and the other assassins are exiled from the Flower Capital for being poor. Komurasaki reveals that she exploits unsuspecting men for their money.

Zoro goes to a gambling house where he plays an odds-and-evens game with dice. He wins, earning an impressive sum. However, the other Straw Hats do not know where he is, so they consider him missing.
At the construction company, Franky is reprimanded by his boss Minatomo for arriving to work late. Franky asks for the blueprints for Kaidou's mansion, but Minatomo states that he had pawned them away a decade ago. After starting a fight, Franky is fired and leaves to go to the pawn shop.
Franky goes to the pawn shop, where he is led to another person named Kumagoro. He goes around town in search of the blueprints, being led to different people, and eventually reaching a dead end as he is told the blueprints are in Kuri. He finds Kanjuro, who is selling fish drawn with his Devil Fruit ability. Kin'emon then calls, telling him to support other missions around the capital.
Meanwhile, Wanda, Carrot and other Minks break into a factory to steal food and weapons. They leave a note saying that the Mt. Atama Thieves were the culprits. This way, the Beasts Pirates would blame and attack Doji for the theft, forcing him to join Kin'emon's alliance. Wanda and Carrot bring the supplies to Kin'emon.
At the gambling house, a gambler attempts to cheat against Zoro; a man hiding under the table uses a needle to push the dice over. Detecting the cheating, Zoro unleashes a swordless "Dragon Twister" attack, uncovering the table and revealing the man. The gamblers turn on him and begin to fight. Zoro defeats the gamblers and takes the money from the loser. Zoro leaves with one of the gamblers, Tonoyasu, to the town Ebisu.
Orochi finally makes a human appearance at his mansion and meets with masked agents of CP0. The agency had previously participating in shady underworld dealings with the "Joker" Doflamingo, but now that Doflamingo was defeated, CP0 was forced to deal with Wano Country directly. However, because Wano Country was already self-sufficient, Orochi made unreasonable demands, even demanding the mysterious Dr. Vegapunk.
Outside the mansion, Komurasaki arrives at the gate. Meanwhile, Momonosuke reveals to Tama that he has a mysterious sister named Hiyori, and he does not know whether or not she is alive.

Tonoyasu takes Zoro to his hometown, Ebisu Town. The town is poverty-stricken like Okobore Town, but its citizens laugh despite their circumstances. Citizens of the town claim that an unknown thief named Ushimitzu Kozo steals from the rich and gives the money to poor tenements. A girl offers him a cup of clean water, which to them is a luxury. 
Meanwhile at the Flower Capital, Orochi demands a luxurious dinner, wastefully rejecting many of the prepared meals offered to him. He also demands several geishas, including Robin undercover, to dance for him. Komurasaki and the Kyoshiro Family also join in the dinner party.
Sanji is working at his soba shop when Law comes and warns him of incoming threats. He explains that the top six Shinuchi of the Beasts Pirates are known as Tobiroppo. Two of these Tobiroppo, Page One and X Drake, are after Sanji, with Hawkins also joining in. Both are Ancient Zoan users; Page One can transform into a spinosaurus and Drake an allosaurus. 
At Udon, Caribou tells Luffy a false rumour that Eustass Kid lost his arm at the hands of one of Big Mom's subordinates. Kid suddenly appears and debunks this rumour, stating that he lost his arm battling the Red Hair Pirates.
Nami and Shinobu land their kites on the rooftop of Orochi's mansion and make their way inside. Inside, Robin sneaks out. Brook also snoops around, using his Devil Fruit ability to separate his soul from his body. He finds a strangely reinforced door and upon passing through the door, he finds Kaidou's Poneglyph.
In Onigashima, Kaidou is informed that Big Mom is arriving from the southeast, and that her ship is riding up the waterfall being carried by carp. Kaidou orders his men to fire at her ship. The cannons fire, but Perospero blocks the fire with candy, then other Big Mom Pirates destroy the cannons. Big Mom exclaims that she won't let Luffy get away.

Orochi throws a banquet at his mansion as a pre-party for the upcoming Fire Festival. He tells his subjects to dance and drink.
Just outside Wano Country, Kaidou's cannons attempt to sink Big Mom's ship, but they fail to do so. Big Mom's ship passes through seven defense lines so Queen prepares a final defense. However, Big Mom breaks through the defense line using her Ikoku attack, cutting off Queen's surveillance. Big Mom's ship is now climbing the waterfall into the country. In response, Kaidou declares an all-out war against the Big Mom Pirates.
King decides to be proactive. He uses his Ancient Zoan powers to transform into a pteranodon. He flies out to Big Mom's ship and pushes the ship back down the waterfall. Big Mom then falls overboard and into a whirlpool, sinking due to being unable to swim.
Page One walks through the Flower Capital in his spinosaurus form and rampages, destroying soba shops. Sanji, who must avoid getting caught by the Beasts Pirates, runs away. However, upon hearing the cries of the terrorized citizens, Sanji rushes to confront Page One. He takes out his raid suit, ready to battle.

Sanji activates his raid suit can, transforming into a more powerful, scientifically advanced Stealth Black. Although he is formally named Stealth Black in Germa 66, Sanji decides to name himself Soba Mask. 
Sanji begins fighting Page One, knocking him down with a kick in the throat. Page One attacks with his claw, but Sanji then blocks the attack with his cape, which turns into a solid shield. Most notably, Sanji's suit allows him to turn invisible, allowing him to attack Page One with super speed. Page One collapses and transforms into his hybrid form. 
Meanwhile, in Udon, Luffy asks Eustass Kid for more dumplings while in his cell, who ignores him.
Orochi's lavish party continues at his mansion, and Komurasaki plays him a song on her shamisen. Meanwhile, Robin who has snuck out of the party looks in a room for the Poneglyph. However, she is quickly detected by the Orochi Oniwabanshu, shogun Orochi's personal military force consisting of ninjas. Fukurokuju, the ninja leader, gives Robin a chance to explain herself.
Sanji as Soba Mask continues to battle fiercely against Page One. At one point, Page One gets the upper hand, picking Sanji up and throwing him into houses. Sanji is unharmed but wants to avoid damaging the houses in battle. So, after unleashing one powerful attack, Sanji escapes into the sky. Usopp, Law and Franky also flee to avoid being identified.

Most of the Big Mom Pirates survive the attack from King unharmed, but they are separated from Big Mom, who is sinking to the bottom of the sea. Meanwhile, Komurasaki finishes her song on her shamisen.
Robin is confronted by the Orochi Oniwabanshu, who offers her a quick and painless death if she told them the truth. Robin attempts to lie to get out, but the ninjas detect this and attack her. Robin attempts to escape but one of the ninjas captures her with a grappling hook on a rope. Another ninja attacks her with shurikens.
After being attacked, Robin disintegrates, revealing that it is simply a clone of herself made with her Devil Fruit ability. The real Robin, who is outside, contacts Nami and Shinobu, who decide to go after Fukurokuju. Robin then is forced to disconnect, keeping her disguise as a geisha and attending to a drunk partygoer. Brook decides to go out to protect Robin, separating his soul from his body. Meanwhile, the ninjas scatter, not wanting to disrupt Orochi's party.
On the beaches of Kuri, Chopper trains with Tama while Momonosuke practices his swordsmanship. They express concern for Raizo, who has infiltrated the Udon prison but has not responded to them yet. Chopper then climbs a bamboo stalk and notices a mysterious large object in the distance.
Robin rejoins the party, attending to Orochi and pouring him a drink. She manages to get some plans from Orochi about the upcoming Fire Festival. Orochi reveals that there will be a lavish banquet, and all the country's major officials and Beasts Pirates will be there. Meanwhile, Brook floats through the hallways but is spotted by the ninjas. Brook appears in front of them, who are frightened, mistaking him for a ghost. 
The ninjas then do a full sweep of the mansion, searching all the rooms and stabbing the ceiling, scaring Nami and Shinobu hiding in the attic. They also search the party area, and Robin hides from patrolling ninja.
Chopper and the others go to the object and find, to their shock, that it is the unconscious body of Big Mom, who has washed ashore after King's attack. To their horror, she wakes up. However, she has lost all her memories, and does not know who or where she is.

Big Mom has lost all her memory from King's attack, even forgetting her own name. Chopper, who wants to avoid reminding her that she was an Emperor, lies, stating that her name is Olin. Big Mom believes him. 
Meanwhile, Orochi retells the "ghost story" of Wano and the prophecy told. He states that as this was the twentieth anniversary of Oden's death, the Nine Red Scabbards are bound to make their return as ghosts and restore the Kozuki Family's reign. He is already aware of the intruders that entered Wano Country, Zorojuro and Sangoro, and suspects that they are allied with Kin'emon. The partygoers think he is delusional, and stifle laughs to prevent offending Orochi.
However, Toko decides to laugh very plainly and loudly, despite others trying to stop her. Angered, Orochi prepares to attack her, but is stopped by Komurasaki, who slaps him across the face. Komurasaki then refuses to bow to Orochi, then reveals that she is a samurai's daughter.
Infuriated that his most beautiful subject has turned on him, Orochi turns into an eight-headed serpent. Still, Komurasaki refuses to apologize. At that point, Orochi goes into a blind rampage, attacking innocent partygoers with his other seven heads. He then bites Komurasaki, crushing her body in his jaws. Meanwhile, Robin rescues Toko and takes her away but is spotted and cornered by the ninjas. However, Brook scares them off pretending to be a ghost.
Kyoshiro relishes in the slaughter, calling it "pandemonium," then unsheathes his sword.

Orochi goes on an angered rampage, crushing Komurasaki between his jaws. The ninjas refuse to help the oiran because they are busy dealing with an intruder. They expose Robin in front of the party, revealing that she is an intruder. However, Brook appears and scares most of the ninjas away, and Robin fights some of them off with her Devil Fruit ability.
Nami and Shinobu watch from the ceiling when they are confronted by a ninja, Hanzo. Hanzo explains that Shinobu used to be extremely attractive and would kill her victims by seducing them first, earning her the name Man-Killer. Shinobu then knocks out Hanzo, then rots the ceiling, causing all three of them to crash into the banquet. Some rubble hits Orochi's head, causing him to let go of Komurasaki.
Orochi gets back up and finds Komurasaki, but Kyoshiro steps in, unsheathes his sword, and slices her chest. This even angers Orochi. Kyoshiro states that Komurasaki broke the iron rule by disobeying the shogun. However, he finds the paper containing the rebellion symbol, implying that Komurasaki is affiliated with Kin'emon's alliance.
Orochi then goes to attack Robin to capture Toko. The ninjas also realize that Brook is not attacking them and they stop fearing him. However, Nami takes out Zeus, who has been stored in her Clima-Tact. Nami feeds Zeus some weather eggs, and Zeus then unleashes a powerful lightning attack striking down Orochi.
The next day, the officers of Udon is alerted that Eustass Kid has escaped.
At the same time, Chopper's group takes Big Mom to Okobore Town where Tsuru feeds her red bean soup. Tama gets the idea of leading her to Udon to help break Luffy out of prison. She tells Big Mom that there was more red bean soup at Udon. This plan works, and Big Mom prepares to leave for Udon.

Kanjuro meets with Nami's group in a snowy cottage far away from the Flower Capital. Kanjuro states that the most powerful yakuza twenty years ago was Hyogoro, who was far more humane and caring than Kyoshiro was at the party. They also report their findings; Robin was unable to get any useful information, but Brook found a Poneglyph, though it was not red. They decide to go back to the Flower Capital to relax at a bathhouse. 
Sanji's group is also hiding in Ebisu Town. They read the news, which tells of Komurasaki's death and Kid's escape from prison. Law predicts that Luffy will be part of an uprising in Udon. However, Sanji asks if there is a bathhouse, causing the others to tackle Sanji. A group of children enters and plays with Sanji's raid suit can.
The Big Mom Pirates are back at the bottom of the waterfall. They cannot go back up because King is defending the top. They know that Big Mom survived the fall as Perospero's Vivre Card is still intact, so they decide to wait at the bottom for any news.
Big Mom and Chopper's group ride on a crocodile towards Udon. Strangely, Kiku forbids Tama and Momonosuke from using the word "sunacchi," stating that it is inappropriate to use. Kiku then explains the structure of Wano Country, which is divided in six regions. Kuri is in the far west and Udon is just east of it. The other four regions are Kibi, a wasteland, the Flower Capital at the center, Ringo, a snowy region, and Hakumai, a port region. Separated from the mainland is an island named Onigashima.
In Udon, Luffy once again helps the old man Hyo by breaking rocks and giving him meal tickets. However, he is interrogated by Alpacaman about Kid's escape. Alpacaman, a SMILE fruit user, covers Luffy in smelly spit. Hyo is also beaten by Daifugo, a scorpion SMILE fruit user, for getting his food tickets from someone else. Witnessing the beating, Luffy walks up to confront Daifugo.

Raizo disguises himself as a prison guard to get into the Seastone box containing the handcuff keys. Although he is caught, he quickly defeats the guards and pins a crab SMILE user to the wall with shuriken. Raizo then runs through the hallways and defeats the guards.
Hyo refuses to tell Daifugo who gave him the food tickets. He states that Wano Country used to be full of civil samurai during Oden's reign, but has since been replaced by ruffian pirates. Luffy then steps in, kicking Daifugo in the face and freeing Hyo. The guards chant to kill Luffy. Luffy fights off some of the guards until Babanuki, an elephant SMILE user and the prison warden, appears.
Babanuki has an elephant on his stomach, who sneezes a cannonball at Luffy. Luffy, unable to use his Devil Fruit power or Haki, is knocked back.
Solitaire, the prison's vice warden and a monkey SMILE user, finds out about the stolen keys. She reprimands the crab guard for failing to capture the thief.
Just then, Queen arrives at the prison for his "showtime," with the prison guards cheering him on. He obsesses over a photo of Komurasaki, unaware of her death. He then goes up to the stage and performs a short musical number. He is formally introduced as Queen the Plague, the lead performer of the Beasts Pirates. With the guards distracted, Luffy carries Hyo away, attempting to climb a wall to escape the prison. 
Babanuki describes the circumstances to Queen, telling him about Kid's escape, the stolen keys and Luffy attempting to escape. Queen tells his men to chase after Luffy.

Luffy and Hyo attempt to climb the wall to escape, but falls after being bombarded with arrows and rocks from below. He is then attacked with Babanuki's elephant cannonballs. Queen says that he has something to say to Luffy.
In the Flower Capital, Nami, Robin and Shinobu go to a bathhouse and relax in a steam room. Nami is frustrated it is a mixed bathhouse as many perverted men watch her while ignoring Shinobu. Shinobu uses a ninjutsu move on the men for insulting her, striking their groin. They then go to another room to have their backs washed by an octopus. One of the people at the spa mentions Hyogoro, prompting further discussion.
Shinobu explains that Hyogoro was a highly-respected person during Oden's reign, even gaining the loyalty from the leaders of the other five regions and Oden himself. However, it is rumoured that, after the Kurozumi Family took over, Hyogoro refused to serve Orochi and was killed. On the other hand, Fukurokuju agreed to serve Orochi and was spared, becoming the leader of his personal ninja force. Shinobu reveals that she was one of the ninjas serving Orochi before she defected, and that is how Hanzo knew her.
Queen speaks with Hyo, who is revealed to be Hyogoro, and Luffy. He states that if Luffy joined the Beasts Pirates, he will be pardoned for his acts. However, Luffy refuses. 
Raizo, having acquired Luffy's handcuff keys, finds Luffy near Queen. Suddenly, the mysterious fish-eating prisoner from before calls out his name. Raizo is shocked to see his comrade, Kawamatsu, though he is chained to the wall. Unfortunately, Raizo is spotted near the cell and Solitaire is notified. He disappears in smoke.
Queen's men carry out a giant sumo ring for Luffy and Hyo to wrestle on as a sort of impossible trial. Luffy and Hyo are fitted with a collar that, when they leave the ring, eject sharp blades to decapitate them. However, to their advantage, their Seastone handcuffs are removed. Luffy asks if they could be released from prison if they beat Queen.

Queen laughs at Luffy for suggesting that he could defeat him. The terrifying sumo match then begins and Luffy is presented with a gang of fighters. However, Luffy defeats them effortlessly, and Queen calls out the Pleasures. Kawamatsu watches the match from his cell while Luffy beats up more pirates with minimal effort.
Meanwhile, Hawkins raids the bathhouse that Nami's group is at, somehow knowing about the alliance's operations. He lines up all the people to check their ankles for the reverse crescent symbol, somehow knowing about the symbol. They prepare to arrest Nami, but her robe falls, revealing her breasts and knocking everyone back, including Drake.
Sanji also appears, apparently having been hiding using his raid suit. He suffers a nosebleed and crashes into a wall. Hawkins and Drake, both being from North Blue, recognize him as Stealth Black of Germa 66. 
The guests go into a frenzied panic in fear of Germa 66. Nami's group attempts to escape during the commotion but are confronted by Hawkins and Drake. Sanji briefly fights them before picking up the others and bursting through the ceiling and flying away. They head to Ebisu Town to meet up with Usopp's group.
In Ringo, a thief attacks swordsmen and collects their swords. At a bridge, he is confronted by Zoro, whose sword, Shusui, has been stolen from him. The thief states that Shusui did not belong to Zoro as it was stolen from Ryuma's grave. They quickly enter battle as Zoro wants to take the thief's sword collection.

Big Mom rides to Udon where she and Tama express their love for red bean soup. Chopper fears that Big Mom will return to her normal self if she finds out that there was no red bean soup.
However, Queen enjoys several bowls of the soup, revealing there was plenty of soup at Udon. Luffy continues to defeat the Pleasures with ease, so Queen decides to bring out the Gifters. Luffy is put against Batman, with advanced hearing, flight and a bow and arrow, and Gazelleman, with super speed. Despite this, Luffy defeats them relatively swiftly with Haki-imbued punches. Still, Luffy is disappointed that he could not defeat them without touching them like Rayleigh did.
At the bridge of Ringo, the sword thief, identified as Gyukimaru, battles against Zoro. He becomes angry when Zoro states that he met Ryuma. Gyukimaru explains Ryuma's significance. Several nobles in the past attempted to take over Wano Country but Ryuma was a formidable samurai who prevented them from doing so. 
Their duel is interrupted by Komurasaki, who somehow survived Kyoshiro's attack, but is running away from an assassin, Hitokiri Kamazo, the slasher previously mentioned in the news. Kamazo intends to kill Toko for laughing and Komurasaki for disrespecting the shogun. Zoro helps Komurasaki in exchange for sake and food.
Zoro and Kamazo begin fighting, and the duel reaches a standstill as they seem equally matched. Zoro removes his outer garment, ready to fight harder.

Kin'emon is informed that their rebellion symbol has somehow been leaked. At the moment, Orochi's men set out to arrest everyone with the reverse crescent tattoo on their ankle.
At the sumo inferno, Luffy is placed against Bearman, a bear SMILE fruit user with a tough body, easily taking Luffy's punches unharmed. Luffy again imbues his fist with Haki and strikes Bearman in the chest, knocking him over and defeating him.
The Flower Capital mourns the supposed death of Komurasaki. The person hit the hardest was Orochi, who cries profusely because his love interest was slain in front of him. Kyoshiro states that killing her was necessary because he had to devastate Orochi. He reveals that he has a rebellion flyer hidden in his robe.
Sanji's group returns to Ebisu Town where he is beaten for intruding in the bathhouse. Shinobu blames the others for potentially jeopardizing the operation, accusing Bepo of telling Orochi's men about the symbol. Kanjuro tells her to stop blaming people as the operation will fail without them. Tonoyasu then enters, stating that the rebellion symbol has been leaked all over the capital.
Zoro continues his battle against the slasher Hitokiri Kamazo. At one point, Kamazo gets the upper hand and stabs Zoro in the shoulder. However, he cannot remove his scythe from Zoro's wound, and Zoro now has a third sword to use. With three swords, Zoro swiftly defeats Kamazo, leaving him unconscious in the snow. Gyukimaru decides to leave with his weapons, not wanting to fight Zoro. Zoro collapses in the snow from his injury.

Luffy and Hyogoro are placed against Alpacaman and Madilloman, an armadillo SMILE fruit user. Hyogoro fights against Alpacaman, where Luffy uses Haki to predict Alpacaman's movements and tell Hyogoro what moves to make in response. Meanwhile, Luffy fights against Madilloman and attempts to defeat him without touching him, but struggles to do so, attacking him with regular Haki.
Madilloman and Alpacaman use a combination technique to take down Luffy. However, this still fails as Luffy knocks them both back, sending them crashing into a wall. He is disappointed that he still couldn't beat them without touching them. 
The rebels with the crescent tattoos are gathered in a giant prison to be publicly shamed. Among the prisoners are a few Heart Pirates, including Bepo.
Komurasaki and Toko take Zoro to a cottage for his wounds to be treated. Zoro tries to leave to pursue the sword thief, but Komurasaki stops him because his wounds have not healed. She explains to him that she angered Orochi so an assassin, Kamazo, was sent to kill her. Finally, she reveals that she is Momonosuke's long-lost sister, Hiyori.

Zoro tells Hiyori that he is Momonosuke's ally, confirming that he, along with Kin'emon and the others are all alive. Hiyori explains the fateful day twenty years ago.
When Orochi overthrew the Kozuki Family, Toki used her Devil Fruit powers to send Kin'emon, Momonosuke, Kanjuro, Raizo and Kikunojo twenty years into the future. Hiyori was left behind so that if Momonosuke did not make it into the future, the Kozuki bloodline would not die. Both Oden and Toki would be slain during the coup, but Hiyori would survive as Kawamatsu helped her escape. Kawamatsu would then raise her throughout her childhood.
After she finishes the story, Zoro tells her about the status of the operation. His group has located six of the Nine Red Scabbards, but not the other three. Hiyori explains that the other three are Kawamatsu, Denjiro and Doji. They then go to sleep to get some rest.
Law gets into a disagreement with Shinobu because she accused the Heart Pirates of giving away the plans. He leaves the group in rage. They worry about Law, but the town is encountered by the three criminals from Komurasaki's procession, Bingo, Bongo and Bungo. They were criminals operating in the capital who bribed officials to ignore their crimes, but they fell in love with Komurasaki who robbed them all and exiled them from the capital. Tonoyasu welcomed them into Ebisu Town, but they continue to act rude towards the townspeople.
Meanwhile, Luffy is disappointed that he cannot beat his opponents without touching them. Hyogoro explains that Wano Country has a technique for doing so, and demonstrates this by defeating Alpacaman without touching him. 

Hyogoro teaches Luffy how to use Ryuo, the Wano Country equivalent of Haki. Luffy struggles at first, but Hyogoro tells him to make his unused Haki "flow" to his fist. Luffy still struggles and keeps beating people by punching them the regular way.
Meanwhile, in Ebisu Town, Tonoyasu discusses the symbol of the rebellion. The others think the plan is ruined because the symbol got leaked, but Tonoyasu says that it worked in their favour because now many people know about the symbol and are willing to join the alliance. Tonoyasu joins their cause before leaving to tend to the other citizens.
Tonoyasu goes around tending to the people, checking up on them, giving them food and playing with children. The old woman explains that Tonoyasu gets his income from his daughter, Toko, who works at the capital and sends it to him. Tonoyasu would give most of it away to the townspeople.
Nightfall arrives and Luffy is still in the sumo match, but still does not know how to use Ryuo. After knocking out the guards with Haki, he reveals that he plans to take down Kaidou and restore the Kozuki Family. Raizo appears, having recruited Caribou into the alliance. Hyogoro then expresses gratitude that the revolution alliance has survived to the present day, then asks to join the cause. Raizo allows him.
Hyogoro gets the idea of recruiting the Udon prisoners to fight for them, as most of the prisoners were arrested for treason. The others accept this idea, and Raizo gets to work breaking Kawamatsu out of his cell. Caribou takes out a giant pot of red bean soup stolen from Queen.

News gets out that the infamous thief Ushimitzu Kozo has been caught. It is revealed that the thief is Tonoyasu. Orochi hears about the capture and is shocked to hear that he was still alive. Orochi sentences Tonoyasu to be executed. Kyoshiro suggests burying him next to Komurasaki's body.
Queen hears the devastating news from Kaidou that Komurasaki has died, and he starts crying. On the sumo ring, Luffy and Hyogoro have gotten plump from drinking the whole pot of red bean soup, but the officers do not tell Queen because he is already shocked by Komurasaki's death.
Meanwhile, Holed'em's men engage in battle against Shutemaru's thieves on Mt. Atama, as Carrot's group previously framed Shutenmaru for thievery. Holed'em also blames Shutenmaru for his defeat in Bakura Town as he believes that Luffy was his subordinate. He sets fire to the mountain. Shutenmaru's men retreat to Bakura Town. Wanda and Carrot, who were watching from the peak, decide to contact Inuarashi about it.
Kin'emon laments tricking Holed'em into destroying Shutenmaru's hideout, but decide to head to Bakura Town to recruit Shutenmaru.
In Ringo, Brook goes into a cottage only to find Hiyori sleeping with Zoro. They wake up, and Brook fills them in with the news. Upon hearing that Tonoyasu was caught and sentenced to execution, Toko immediately runs out to go save her father. 
In the Flower Capital, Tonoyasu is escorted out of his cell and to his execution.

Komurasaki's coffin is escorted through the streets for her body to be cremated. The citizens mourn her death. Orochi also rides to the execution area to watch Tonoyasu's execution.
Tonoyasu is tied to a cross and the post is raised, placing him high into the sky. He reminisces on his past life with Oden. A live video of the execution is shown in Bakura Town, Ebisu Town and Udon. The townspeople of Ebisu Town continue to laugh, and Holed'em watches the event in Bakura Town.
Kin'emon rides through Bakura Town to look for Shutenmaru when he sees the broadcast, shocked that Tonoyasu is still alive. Hyogoro, who watches from Udon, also recognizes him. They reveal that Tonoyasu's real name is, in reality, Shimotsuki Yasuie.
Yasuie's past is revealed. He was the daimyo of Hakumai before Oden became shogun, and he was a serious person who never smiled. Oden was kicked out of the castle by his father, Sukiyaki, so he stayed at Hakumai with Yasuie. 
Back to the present day, the townspeople beg the officers to let Yasuie down, but he keeps laughing. He states that he wants to apologize for two things then say something to Orochi. The first bullet is fired at him. His charges and sentence are then read by an officer. Toko, who has reached the border of the town, calls out for her father.
The people of Ebisu Town, along with Usopp, Nami and Robin, charge into the Flower Capital to save Yasuie from his execution. The people battle against the guards of the Flower Capital.
Yasuie makes his final statement. He praises Wano Country for being a once-beautiful country with forests and rivers thanks to the Kozuki Family, but calls out Orochi for ruining the country, calling him nothing but vermin. Yasuie laughs even as the executioner points his rifle at him. 

To save the rebellion, Yasuie decides to lie, stating that the rebellion flyers were a prank orchestrated by him, and the people with crescent tattoos are not rebels. Orochi finally arrives at the execution area and prepares to shoot him. Yasuie tells Orochi, "A man of such small caliber will never truly devour Oden." He reveals that he has changed the rendezvous point on the flyers so that the revolution will live on. Shots are fired at Yasuie.
Yasuie recalls when he was a daimyo. The Nine Red Scabbards were captured for stealing money and brought to him. Because Yasuie recognizes that Oden was going through financial struggles, he lets them keep the money they stole.
On the cross, Yasuie also sees his daughter Toko running to him. He remembers a moment when he walked with his daughter, and let her ride on his back. In his last moments, he apologizes to her for leaving her behind before finally dying. His body falls off the cross and hits the ground.
To Zoro's frustration, the citizens of Ebisu Town, including Toko, start laughing at the body. Hiyori explains that they are physically unable of showing any emotion except laughter because of Kaidou's SMILE fruits.

The citizens mourn Yasuie's death, though the people of Ebisu Town laugh over the death. Shinobu and Hiyori explain the SMILE fruits. Kaidou wanted to increase the strength of his army so he purchased artificial Zoan fruits from Doflamingo. However, the success rate of these fruits is ten percent, meaning only ten percent of SMILE fruit eaters successfully gain an ability. The other ninety percent would permanently lose their ability to swim as well as express any emotion other than joy.
Fighters of the Beasts Pirates are divided into three categories. The Waiters have not eaten a SMILE fruit, the Gifters are those who gained SMILE fruit powers, and the Pleasures are those who have eaten SMILE fruits but failed to gain powers. 
Ebisu Town's dark history is revealed. It was a poverty-stricken town that received its food from the capital. Orochi took some failed SMILE fruits that have already been bitten and gave them to the town. Given no other source of food, the people of Ebisu Town ate the defective fruits and suffered its negative side effects.
Toko decides to break past the fence and go to her father's corpse. Orochi sees her and prepares to shoot her, blaming her for Komurasaki's death. However, Zoro and Sanji stop him, breaking through the fence and cutting the bullets in two.

The samurai start fighting Zoro and Sanji, who fight them off easily. Zoro then sends a flying slash towards Orochi, but Kyoshiro deflects the attack. Kyoshiro decides to battle against Zoro while Orochi rides back to the castle. X Drake then transforms into his allosaurus form and attacks Sanji. The firing squad also fires their rifles at Zoro and Sanji, but Franky blocks the bullets with his cyborg body. Franky takes Yasuie's body away. Usopp, Robin and Nami also fight at his side.
The Straw Hats decide to finish up their battle on the execution ground. Zoro battles with Kyoshiro, Sanji battles with Drake, and Usopp, Robin, Franky, and Nami deal with the other soldiers.
Luffy cheers from the sumo ring in Udon. Just then, Queen gets the news that some criminals have arrived. Kamazo, who failed to assassinate Komurasaki, and Kid, who surrendered after his escape, enter the prison. Kid immediately recognized Kamazo as his own crewmate, Killer. Killer was somehow forced to eat a SMILE fruit and therefore can only express happiness.
Angered for Kid, Luffy calls out Queen, resuming the sumo match.

Zoro continues his battle with Kyoshiro and Sanji with Drake. However, the Orochi Oniwabanshu appear. With the help of Hawkins, the ninjas have identified them as members of the Straw Hat Pirates. The ninjas scatter and all attack the Straw Hats.
Meanwhile, in Udon, Kid and Killer are tortured. They are hung upside down and lowered into a barrel of water. Queen then officially resumes the sumo match, with a new added rule: as long as Luffy and Hyo remain in the ring, Kid and Killer will remain submerged underwater. Luffy demands Queen to come out into the ring, but he refuses.
Back at the capital, Law confronts Hawkins at the prison looking for Bepo. However, Hawkins' Devil Fruit ability allows him to redirect damage to his prisoners. Therefore, Law would have to kill his own three subordinates before he could harm Hawkins.
Sanji keeps fighting with Drake. However, Hiyori screams as she is attacked by ninjas, so Sanji decides to finish the battle quickly to go save her. He defeats Drake with his "Extra Hachis" move, pummeling him with fiery kicks. He then goes to Hiyori's aid, but Zoro arrives first, taking her away to safety.
Outside the prison, Big Mom finally arrives at the gate, ready to claim her red bean soup.

Kin'emon admits to Ashura that his alliance framed him for theft to turn him against the Beasts Pirates. Although Ashura was originally hostile because Mt. Atama has been destroyed, Kin'emon deeply apologizes for his extreme measures as well as abandoning the country for the last twenty years. Forgiving him, Ashura asks Kin'emon to follow him.
At Udon, Big Mom forces her way through all three gates of the prison mine and appears, shocking everyone in the prison. She demands to be fed red bean soup, but Queen, who is very fond of the food, refuses, unwilling to share any with her. Queen uses his Devil Fruit power to transform into a brachiosaurus. They quickly start to fight.
Tama and Momonosuke stay behind at the gate due it being too dangerous, but Kiku, who dons a disguise, goes inside with Chopper. After travelling through the entrance, they find Big Mom slamming Queen's head into the ground.

Big Mom and Queen continue their fight. Queen attempts to stomp on Big Mom, but she manages to lift him and throw him down. She then picks up Queen and throws him into a rock wall, severely damaging the prison. This knocks over the beam submerging Kid and Killer into water. They fall on the ground, saved from drowning. It also breaks Kawamatsu's cell.
Prison guards attempt to contact Kaidou in the executive tower, but Caribou stops him from doing so. He explains that the variant Den Den Mushi used in Wano Country, known as Smart Tanishi, transmit very weak signals so they require a Boss Tanishi to transmit the signals. Raizo decides to go get the keys to free the other prisoners.
Big Mom searches for red bean soup, and finds a pot of it among the rubble. However, she opens it to find that it is empty, infuriating her. She intended to bring the pot back to Okobore Town as a thanks to its citizens for feeding her. She angrily attacks Luffy, who ate the pot earlier. She knocks him and Hyogoro near the edge of the ring.
Luffy finally unleashes Ryuo and uses it to tear off their collars. They explode in the air. Big Mom then attacks Hyogoro, and Luffy attempts to use Ryuo again to fight her off.

Luffy recalls how he saw Rayleigh used Ryuo. Back at Sabaody Archipelago, Camie was fitted with an explosive slave collar as she was trafficked into slavery. However, Rayleigh used Ryuo to remove the collar with a single hand. Back in present day, Luffy uses the same method in an attempt to repel Big Mom's attack.
Luffy's defense fails and Big Mom sends him and Hyogoro crashing into a wall. Luffy is unharmed but Hyogoro was hit hard on the head. Hyogoro congratulates Luffy for successfully learning the technique before he collapses in Luffy's arms.
Big Mom chases Luffy around and attacks him, chasing him into the ironworks section and breaking out many prisoners. Meanwhile, Queen gets up and hatches a plan to stop her. He expects that Big Mom will chase Luffy through all five labour camps of the prison before making her way back to the stone quarry. He sets up a trap by placing a pot of red bean soup as bait at the quarry.
As expected, Big Mom chases Luffy back to the quarry and finds the red bean soup. However, Queen suddenly dives down from above and strikes Big Mom in the head. The head trauma makes her regain her memories.

Immediately after Big Mom regains her memories, she collapses, falling asleep. Queen takes the chance to restrain her with pure Seastone cuffs and chains, injects her with tranquilizer, and ships her off to Onigashima to see with most of the wardens onboard, leaving only the minimum security guards at Udon.
The guards continue to battle against Luffy. Luffy attempts to defeat them using Ryuo, but he struggles to do so. Babanuki orders the prisoners to fight Luffy. The prisoners do not want to battle him, but fear Kaidou and Orochi should they join Luffy and break out. They accept that they have no hope of living a life of freedom again, so they obey and restrain Luffy.
Daifugo shoots one of the prisoners with a flintlock, which immediately covers his skin with green patches and burns him. The disease also spreads to two other prisoners who touch him. Daifugo explains that he shot an Excite Bullet, which contained a contagious plague on it. He prepares to shoot another bullet at them, infecting them all.
However, Kawamatsu calls from the sacred prison cell, which the other guards were told had a dangerous beast inside. Babanuki explains that the cell actually contained a member of the Nine Red Scabbards. When Kawamatsu was captured thirteen years ago, Orochi sentenced him to be executed by feeding him poisoned fish. However, Kawamatsu never did die from eating the fish, so he has stayed alive in the cell ever since. Babanuki orders the guards to kill him.
Kikunojo prepares to fight the guards off to save him, but Kawamatsu manages to fight them off by spitting sharp fishbones at their necks.

Raizo sneaks through the executive tower in search of Kawamatsu's sword and keys to his cuffs. He finds them, but is caught by Solitaire, whose spider SMILE fruit allows her to use six swords. However, Raizo uses his Jujutsu to create shadow forms of himself. Solitaire fought off the clones allowing the real Raizo to get away.
In his cell, Kawamatsu fights off the guards attempting to kill him by spitting fish bones. Just then, Raizo jumps out the tower window and passes the key and sword to him. He unlocks his cuffs and uses his unique swordfighting style, the Kappa Style. The prisoners immediately recognize them as the Nine Red Scabbards and are shocked to see that they are still alive after twenty years. 
Babanuki orders his men to attack them, but they are easily fought off. Then, they start firing Excite Bullets at the prisoners, infecting many of them. 
Zoro and Hiyori walk through a leafy forest but are followed by a mysterious flute player. Suddenly, the man shoots a blowdart at them. Zoro detects and hits the dart with his sword, then fights off the assailant. They believe he is Fukurokuju's assassin.
Queen's ship takes Big Mom to Onigashima. Despite the tranquilizer shots, Big Mom wakes up briefly, asking for red bean soup, then falls back asleep.
Back at Udon, Kid attempts to get out of his cuffs. Raizo throws them the keys, but Kid, only having one hand, asks Killer to help him unlock the cuffs. However, Killer just lies on the floor, laughing.

Babanuki's men continue firing Excite Bullets at the prisoners. The bullet wounds form black skull marks, spreading green blotches all over the body. Prisoners affected suffer excruciating, burning pain, fever and bleeding, and eventually become emaciated and zombie-like. The infected also touch the healthy prisoners, infecting them as well. Babanuki dubs the chemical weapon Queen's masterpiece, the Mummy virus. The infected prisoners blame the Nine Red Scabbards, as well as Luffy, for putting them through the ordeal by rebelling. 
In response to this, Luffy hugs the infected prisoners, contracting the virus himself. Luffy calls out the weak-spirited prisoners for simply accepting the abuse from the Beasts Pirates, then states he has a promise to fulfill: to make Wano Country a place where the people never hunger again. He prompts the prisoners to either join him and liberate the country or continue to live a life of despair under Kaidou's regime.
Babanuki decides to try to kill all the prisoners at once, using an Excite Shot, a cannonball containing two hundred doses of the Mummy virus. He places it in his elephant's trunk to fire, but Luffy walks up to him and ties a knot in the elephant's trunk. With the cannonball still inside, it detonates in Babanuki's body, knocking him out. With the last of his strength, Luffy orders his new followers to take out the vice wardens. Following his orders, the prisoners turn on and defeat Daifugo and Solitaire.
Eight days before the Onigashima raid, Luffy scores his first victory, liberating Udon's prisoner mine.

Killer uses the keys and unlocks Kid's handcuffs. Kid goes to see Luffy, who lies on the ground. Luffy invites Kid into the alliance, but Kid refuses. He uses his Devil Fruit power to create an arm out of magnetic parts, then breaks the prison gate. He and Killer leave.
Doji takes Kin'emon and Inuarashi to a graveyard with several tombstones. Doji explains what had happened. Ten years after Oden's death, Doji's men have grown impatient for the Nine Red Scabbards to return. Not wanting to wait another ten years, they beg him to allow them to leave right away and take on Kaidou at Onigashima. Doji objected to this, stating that they would be completely powerless against Kaidou so their deaths would be for nothing.
One of the men explain the meaning of the word "sunacchi"; it was an abbreviaton of the sentence, "Namae o sutero, chie o sutero." ("Throw away your name and your wits.") The phrase suggesting not worrying about the dangers and throwing themselves forward for their cause. Against Doji's command, they sailed out to Onigashima. As he warned, the soldiers were decimated by Kaidou's crew and died in vain, after which they were buried at the graveyard. Back at present day, Doji and his men decide to join Kin'emon's alliance to take down Kaidou. 
Back at Udon, the prisoners start doubting Luffy for being a pirate like Kaidou. They also doubt the prophecy and that the Nine Red Scabbards truly returned from the past. Momonosuke hides with Luffy, who is resting in a cell while Chopper prepares a cure. Although Momonosuke is hesitant to appear in front of them, Luffy throws a boulder at him to chase him out into the open.
Momonosuke is spotted by the prisoners and immediately recognized. The prisoners bow down to him and Momonosuke gives a speech calling them to help fight against Kaidou. Now convinced that the Nine Red Scabbards truly have returned, they join the cause to liberate Wano Country and take down Orochi.

Zoro and Hiyori are ambushed by Fukurokuju's group of ninjas. Although Zoro defeats most of the ninjas without difficulty, a stronger ninja, Fujin, stands in his way. Still, Zoro cuts down Fujin unharmed. He and Hiyori seek shelter at a house, where he plans to get the Shusui back to prepare for the Onigashima raid. 
Orochi berates Fukurokuju for allowing Zoro to get away. To appease him, Fukurokuju states that he managed to capture another criminal, Law, who was brutally tortured and chained to a wall. They set up wanted posters of all of the Straw Hats and their allies. Sanji and Shinobu find that they are both wanted in the entire country.
They decide to sit on a rooftop, where they plan their next moves. Now that most of their work in the Flower Capital is done, they decide that the next step would be to free the samurai allies who have been imprisoned by Orochi's guards. Sanji observes people creating sky ships, lantern-like balloons that are released into the sky during the Fire Festival.
Back at Udon, Chopper finally creates a cure for the Mummy virus. Luffy is cured first, then the other prisoners are also. 
Nami runs through the capital to find Bepo in the streets. Bepo shows her the rebellion flyer, where Yasuie added two lines to the snake to change the rendezvous point. After Nami leaves, Bepo reveals what happened to Law. In exchange for Bepo's freedom, Law turned himself in to be arrested. After being beaten, Hawkins and Drake chained him to a wall and tortured him for information.

Kanjuro visits Ebisu Town where he receives permission to bury Yasuie's body in Kuri. Kanjuro remembers Yasuie's sacrifice; Yasuie gave up his life to save Kin'emon's plans of liberation. He decides to bury his body on the grounds of Oden's grave.
Meanwhile, Robin, Usopp and Brook find out they are wanted throughout the entire country. Security checkpoints are set up and officers check all passing people to make sure they are not the fugitives. To get past the security checkpoint, Robin and Usopp make face faults. They then sail down a river to Kuri.
The rebels prepare for the upcoming Onigashima raid. At Kuri, Kin'emon is shocked to see that Ashura has gathered ships to transport the rebels in the raid. Meanwhile, Luffy keeps trying to master Ryuo by breaking rocks, but struggles. He also spars against Hyogoro but is knocked back. In Ringo, Zoro confronts the sword thief of Oihagi Bridge.
They quickly enter battle and Zoro gets the upper hand. The thief refuses to return the sword because it belonged to the great samurai Ryuma. They continue fighting but the battle is broken up by Kawamatsu. The thief and Hiyori both recognize him and are shocked to see him.
At Onigashima, Big Mom is taken to Kaidou's mansion, where Kaidou orders his men to remove her handcuffs. After this, they immediately begin to battle.

Kaidou and Big Mom continue their clash. Queen, afraid of the battle, looks for excuses to leave Onigashima. He receives a call from Babanuki, who tells him that his situation is okay. In reality, Babanuki has been Tama, who fed him a kibi dango after he was defeated.
The prisoners, fully recovered from the Mummy virus, praise Chopper for curing them and agreeing to fight for the rebellion. Surprisingly, Luffy is met with four yakuza leaders who once ruled a region of Wano. Omasa of Udon, Tsunagoro of Hakumai, Cho of Ringo and Yatappe of Kibi are all willing to join Luffy's alliance.
Meanwhile, in Kibi, Kin'emon finds out that Ashura has acquired the blueprints for Kaidou's mansion. He receives news from Raizo that they have amassed an army of 3500 men. The only remaining problem is that they do not have a supply of weapons for them, as possession of weapons was forbidden in the country.
At Oihagi Bridge, Hiyori cries at the sight of Kawamatsu. She apologizes for abandoning him. Several years ago, Hiyori felt guilty that Kawamatsu was starving himself to feed her, so she ran away while he was asleep. When Kawamatsu woke up, he searched the Flower Capital for her, but to no avail. Bsack at present day, he forgives her for running away, happy that she is alive.
Suddenly, Gyukimaru is ambushed by a group of bandits and is shot with a magnum. The bandits, angry that their weapons were stolen, attack them all in vengeance. Zoro and Kawamatsu fight them all off. Crying and wounded, Gyukimaru decides to run away.

Zoro chases Gyukimaru, but he goes into an run-down doorway and disappears. Hiyori and Kawamatsu decide to walk together, but are attacked by another wave of bandits. Kawamatsu fights them off, and explains what happened after he lost Hiyori.
Thirteen years ago, after Hiyori ran away, he decided to leave to Ringo. Ringo was a region that was previously ruled by the daimyo Shimotsuki Ushimaru, who was with the company of a fox, Onimaru. However, when Orochi overthrew Oden, Ushimaru was killed and Ringo fell.
Kawamatsu found a mass burial site with Eternal Graves. These corpses were buried in caskets and did not decompose due to the cold. They were marked by the deceased person's sword, which was said to contain the soul of the deceased. These swords became attractive to grave robbers, but the graveyard was guarded by the fox, Onimaru.
Onimaru was initially hostile to Kawamatsu but eventually warmed up to him. However, he became hostile again after he saw Kawamatsu taking the swords from the graves. Kawamatsu explained that the swords were to be used for the upcoming Onigashima raid. Given that the samurai in the swords will help their wielders in battle, Onimaru allowed him, helping him gather the other swords.
Together they would build a hideout to keep the swords, steal food from the capital to keep themselves fed, and fight off any grave robbers, taking their swords. Unfortunately, when Kawamatsu attempted to steal tofu one day, he fell into a trap and was arrested, being sent to the Udon prisoner mine. 
Back in present day, Kawamatsu goes to the place where Gyukimaru disappeared, and finds that it is the location where the swords were located. He contacts Kin'emon and tells him that he has the supply of swords needed for the army. It is revealed that Gyukimaru was the one who arranged the swords while Kawamatsu was gone, as he was actually Onimaru in his human form. He transforms back into his fox form and leaves, his duty fulfilled.
Zoro tries to take back Shusui, but Hiyori asks him to leave it. Hiyori offers him a replacement sword, the Enma. This sword belonged to Oden himself and is the only sword to have ever successfully injured Kaidou. 

Hiyori explains that the Shusui is the sacred national treasure of Wano Country, and that when it was stolen by Moria the country was devastated. Zoro agrees to leave the Shusui behind in exchange for the Enma, and on the condition that he would be allowed to visit Ryuma's grave.
At Rasetsu Prison, Law manages to overpower Hawkins and cut him in half. Hawkins explains that he formed an alliance with Kid and Scratchman Apoo. However, Apoo was allied with Kaidou all along, and when he met face-to-face with Kaidou, Hawkins immediately submitted to him. However, Kid refused to join Kaidou, was defeated, and was sent to the Udon prisoner mine. Finishing the story, Law cuts Hawkins down and walks free from the prison.
At Udon, Luffy keeps training in attempt to learn Ryuo.
The yakuza leaders break into different groups to prepare. Hyogoro prepares the weapons, Cho transports the swords to the rendezvous point, Yatappe leads the command unit, and Franky's group work to maintain the ships. Kin'emon explains the change in the rebellion flyer. The original snake symbol implied Habu Port in Hakumai, but with the two added strokes the snake resembles a lizard, implying Tokage Port in Udon. Kin'emon explains the situation stating that they have located seven out of nine of the Nine Red Scabbards, still not being able to track down Denjiro.
Scratchmen Apoo arrives in Wano Country. He passes through the waterfall and goes through a hidden tunnel. He then goes up a gondola leading him up to Hakumai. Apoo brings the monster-like Numbers, scaring the witnesses. They call Kaidou at Onigashima, who has gotten past his differences with Big Mom. He declares a temporary alliance between the Beasts Pirates and the Big Mom Pirates.

Kawamatsu confirms to the Nine Red Scabbards that Hiyori was indeed alive. Then, Tama's grandfather, Tenguyama Hitetsu, gets back the sword that Luffy took from his house. Then, he takes out the Enma, the sword promised by Hiyori, which is granted to Zoro. Zoro tries out his new sword on a tree, but the sword ends up drawing more Ryuo than necessary, creating an overly-powerful slash cutting off a piece of the cliff. Hitetsu explains that the Enma is considered impossible to wield because it always uses excessive amounts of the wielder's Ryuo. Still, Zoro still trains with the Enma on some bamboo stalks.
Kin'emon then plans out the battle. Despite having four thousand men, they are still greatly outnumbered by Orochi and Kaidou's troops of about thirty thousand people.
Luffy keeps attempting to learn Ryuo by pounding sheets of metal but still struggles. Chopper decides that it is time to leave, so Luffy rides on Chopper's back to Kin'emon's group. Just then, Kin'emon receives a call from the yakuza leaders that they have amassed a total of 400 people to fight in the Onigashima raid. One day remains before the raid and Kin'emon's group leaves to go to the port early.
The Straw Hats stay behind by Yasuie and Pedro's graves. Hitetsu seems amazed that Zoro is managing to tame the Enma. He reveals that the reason Zoro can use the sword is because the Wado Ichimonji and Enma were created by the same person, Shimotsuki Kozaburo. Zoro states that he will turn Enma into a Black Blade. Back at Udon, Babanuki calls Orochi and lies to him, stating that there was no trouble at Udon and the situation is under control. However, Orochi somehow reveals that he has the new information about the rendezvous point change and that Hiyori was alive. 
Luffy finally masters Ryuo by blasting a tree, and the curtains close on Wano Country Arc's second act.

The Levely has come to an end, and the royal parties attending it have returned to their home countries. Neptune's family returns to Fish-Man Island accompanied by Garp, where he laments the tense and violent arguments that occurred during the Levely. However, Garp brings up a certain incident that occurred concerning Arabasta.
Previously, news of the incident were spread by Morgans, head of the World Economy Newspaper. Morgans was threatened by a Cipher Pol agent to keep the incident private, but Morgans refuses, beating the agent. However, he receives a call from Wapol of the Black Drum Kingdom.
The news reached the officers of the Revolutionary Army at Kamabakka Kingdom, devastating the officers. Meanwhile, Koby, who is on a Marine ship, calls X Drake in private, revealing that Drake was allied with the Marines all along, leading the special force SWORD. To Koby's shock, Drake informs him that Kaidou and Big Mom have formed an alliance, and Cipher Pol agents have entered Wano Country. 
The final great revelation is revealed. During the Levely, the delegates have decided to abolish the Seven Warlords of the Sea system. The Seven Warlords were seven officially-recognized pirates, but several members have lost this title. Crocodile, Moria, Doflamingo and Law were all stripped of the title for committing heinous actions, and Jinbe and Teach declared their resignation from the system. During the Levely, Kings Nefertari Cobra and Riku Doldo III, two powerful monarchs whose countries have been damaged by Warlords, advocated for the abolition of the system. This motion won the majority and the Warlords were officially disbanded. The former Warlords are now fugitive pirates and are being pursued by the Marines.
Buggy, Edward Weevil, Dracule Mihawk and Boa Hancock are surrounded by Marine soldiers, their legal immunity being revoked. The former warlords prepare to battle the Marines, except for Buggy who plans to flee while his underlings keep the Marine busy.

At the new Marine Headquarters, Fleet Admiral Sakazuki discusses the Seven Warlords' dissolution with Fujitora. Although Sakazuki expresses disagreement with the choice, he decides he cannot change the decision. When discussing Kaidou's situation in Wano Country, they end up mentioning a certain Rocks.
The other Marine officers hold a meeting and the name Rocks also comes up. Sengoku decides to tell the story of the Rocks Pirates.
The Rocks Pirates were a group of extremely violent pirates who even fought each other onboard the ship. Among the crew were some of the most dangerous pirates today, including Whitebeard, Kaidou, Big Mom and Shiki. However, 38 years ago in what would be known as the God Valley Incident, Garp joined forces with the Roger Pirates and defeated the Rocks Pirates, protecting endangered World Nobles.
Since the incident, the World Government attempted to remove all traces of the incident, erasing Rocks' name from history and removing the island of God Valley from all maps. Strangely, both Roger and Rocks have the mysterious initial D in their name.
Brannew announces the new bounties of the Four Emperors, Teach, Shanks, Big Mom and Kaidou, all of which have bounties in the billions. Just then, Sakazuki enters, stating that the Marines will not intervene in Wano Country due to a lack of resources. Before Sengoku leaves, he mentions Oden, revealing Oden was a member of the Roger Pirates.

25 years ago, the Roger Pirates had a drunken feast at their ship. Kozuki Oden expressed his appreciation for being able to join Gol D. Roger on his voyage. Silvers Rayleigh, Shanks, and Buggy offered to help him in his quest to open Wano Country's borders, but Oden replied that he should handle this alone; he was confident that with the help of his retainers, he could become shogun and accomplish his goal.
In the present day, Act 3 of the Wano Country Arc begins. In Port Habu in Hakumai, Orochi boards a ship headed for the Fire Festival in Onigashima. He drinks heavily in celebration. The people in the Flower Capital also celebrate passionately.
Meanwhile, at the rendezvous point, Tokage Port, Momonosuke and the Scabbards find out that not only it is storming heavily, but their ships and allies are nowhere to be seen, and Kin'emon desperately tries calling their allies on the Tanishi. However, he cannot reach any of them, and his pleas quickly become desperate before Ashura Doji silences him. 
Rewinding back to two days before the Fire Festival, the alliance members moved to conclude their preparations and head for Port Tokage. After overseeing the completion of the ship restoration in Port Itachi, Franky and Usopp headed to Amigasa Village to reunite with their crew, leaving the ships in the care of the Musketeers and Wano carpenters.
In the Prisoner Mine, Hyogoro oversaw the prisoners collecting all the weapons they could find while Cho acquired the weapons stored in Ringo. Jibuemon talked with some allies about making sure they all moved to Port Tokage discreetly, and they agreed even though Orochi and many of his officials would have already left for Onigashima.
In Amigasa Village, Hitetsu gave the Straw Hats some kabuto armor, and Luffy, Chopper, and Brook were excited to don it. Sanji asks Zoro why he does not want to wear the armor, to which he replies the armor will slow him down. Then, he finally taunts Zoro with his higher bounty causing Zoro to unleash Enma. Both of them had a fight before getting whacked by Nami. Eventually, Nami and Robin discussed with Carrot, Wanda, Shishilian, Concelot, and Giovanni about the full moon that would be present during the final battle, and they hoped that the minks could use Sulong and that Nekomamushi and the Guardians would arrive on time. Meanwhile, Luffy looked out toward the ocean, noting that Jinbe had not yet arrived despite Big Mom being here. After finding out what had happened with Jinbe, Zoro assured Luffy that the fish-man would come if he was still alive.
In Okobore Town, however, the citizens were confronted by Holed'em, who revealed that the Paradise Farm was still being stolen from despite him burning down the Mt. Atama Thieves' hideout. The citizens deduced that the Nine Red Scabbards had likely stolen the food if the reports of their return were accurate, though decided to not say a word about it. Tsuru then came and told Holed'em that she would guide him to the food, as she wanted to help her husband Kin'emon and the Kozuki Family's plan. However, the other citizens stopped her by claiming aloud that they had eaten the stolen food, shocking her and angering Holed'em.
Back again, in the present, at Tokage Port, as the Scabbards start to lose hope of their allies showing up, Inuarashi finds a boat that looks intact and prepares to sail out to Onigashima alone. Momonosuke says that they should change the date of their rendezvous and Shinobu attempts to stop Kin'emon and the rest of the Scabbards from going towards Onigashima, however, Kin'emon declines. On Onigashima, Orochi parties as he thinks about an incident that occurred the previous day.

To the great shock of the Nine Red Scabbards, no one shows up to Tokage Port to sail out to Onigashima. The day before, Orochi decided to sabotage the operation before it could happen. He bombed the Thousand Sunny as well as all bridges leading to the port. He also destroys the port itself. The Nine Red Scabbards decide that they must sail out to Onigashima, with or without their allies. They prepare to go.
They remember Oden's legacy. A delinquent from a young age, Oden committed several atrocious acts, such as starting what would be known as the Harem War, where he clashed with several other samurai whose women he stole. When he turned eighteen, he was disavowed from his father.
The future Nine Red Scabbards also steal to survive. Kin'emon attempts to steal a baby boar and Denjiro swindles a merchant for a pot. However, the baby boar's parent, a giant dubbed the mountain god, goes on a rampage around town in search of its child. Oden intervenes, asking Kin'emon for the boar back.

The giant boar, named the Mountain God, rampages around town in search of its baby. Upon hearing that the Mountain God swallowed Tsurujo, Kin'emon decides to battle it head on. Despite having stabbed the beast, Kin'emon is knocked back into the ground and defeated. Oden then appears and uses his sword, slicing the beast cleanly in half. Although there were no casualties from the incident, a quarter of the town was destroyed by the Mountain God.
Oden is blamed for the incident, and he receives the notice of disavowal from his father, exiling him from the capital. Kin'emon and Denjiro decide to follow and serve him.
Oden stays at Hakumai and meets the region's daimyo, Yasuie, and his servant, Orochi. He ends up destroying the room he stays in, steals money from the safe and then leaves to travel around the country. He plans to end up at Kuri, the country's lawless region, where he would restore order to the region. He would find followers during his journeys; he met young siblings Izou and Kikunojo in Ringo, Kanjuro in Kibi, and mountain bandit Raizo in Udon. However, while in Kuri he would come face-to-face with bandit Ashura Doji and start a battle.

Oden met with Ashura Doji, the bandit leader of the lawless part of town, Kuri. They quickly got into a swordfight, which appeared to be at a standstill. However, by the time Oden's followers came to his aid, he had already emerged victorious and defeated Ashura. Oden would take him in as one of his followers. 
After liberating Kuri from Ashura, Oden would start building structures and towns in the area, turning what was once an uncivilized, rough terrain into an officially-recognized province of Wano Country, with Oden as its first daimyo and his followers as his official retainers. Sukiyaki repealed his disavowal and accepted him as his son again. The Kozuki Family also formed an alliance with the Mink Tribe.
Inuarashi, Nekomamushi and Kawamatsu washed ashore as children, but the people, mistaking them for monsters, attempted to burn them at the stake. Oden arrived just in time to rescue them. After welcoming them into his palace and feeding them oden stew, they explained that their ship sunk and they washed ashore. Oden accepted them into the country and they became Oden's loyal retainers like the others.
Oden's followers then raided Hakumai and attempted to steal money from Yasuie, but they were all captured and brought to the daimyo. Surprisingly, Yasuie allows them to keep the money they stole, and also faithfully gave his own savings. Oden and his followers then used the money to pay for books and education, learned proper manners and trained to become strong warriors. Although they originally gained a reputation of being ruffians, they eventually became respected, high-class individuals.
The God Valley Incident occurred, leading to the defeat and dissolution of the Rocks Pirates. Although their captain was killed, the crew split up and formed their own pirate crews. Among these powerful pirates was Edward Newgate, who became known as Whitebeard. After their ship sunk, they washed ashore onto the beaches of Wano Country.

Oden went to the shore and instantly started a battle with Whitebeard, but was instantly defeated. Oden asked Whitebeard to let him join his crew, but he refuses, stating that he was not a loyal person and would therefore not be good at serving someone else. Kin'emon was also opposed to Oden setting sail because he had his duties as a daimyo.
Two weeks passed and Whitebeard's men finished repairing his ship, the Moby Dick. Whitebeard decided to set sail at night to prevent Oden from joining, but Oden snuck out and nevertheless attempted to board the ship. He held onto a chain tied to the ship's mast and was carried along with the ship. Izou pursued Oden and held onto him, trying to prevent him from settting sail.
Marco rescued Izou from the water and carried him onboard. Oden, however, was not rescued and was dragged through the rough waters, crashing into rocks along the way. Whitebeard promised Oden that he would be allowed into the crew if he held onto the chain for three days. Oden accepted the challenge as he rode down the waterfall, got eaten by a fish, and was dragged through icy waters.
Three days passed and one hour remained. Oden held onto the chain strongly but his body was greatly swollen from water collision. However, he heard the screams of a woman being harassed on a nearby island, Amatsuki Toki. Oden let go of the chain, swam to the island and scared off the miscreants. 

Toki took care of Oden as he recovered from his swelling. Toki explained that she dreamed of going to Wano Country. However, the next day they are confronted by the thugs from earlier, the Takotopus Pirates led by their captain Karma. However, Whitebeard suddenly appeared and knocked out Karma with a single hit. The other thugs were scared off at the sight of an emperor.
Since Oden gave up his ambition to save a woman, Whitebeard allowed Oden onto his ship. Izou, Toki, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi were also accepted in. Oden would prove to be one of the most violently powerful members of the crew, as he sunk an enemy ship before his crew got the chance to plunder it. Travelling across several distant lands, he recorded all his adventures in his journal.
Oden got close with Toki, who explained that her parents were born in Wano Country so she wanted to visit the country. Eventually, during Oden's second year in the crew, they had a child and named him Momonosuke. He became a wanted pirate overseas, and when Whitebeard decided to segment his crew into divisions, Oden became the commander of the second division.
Back at Wano Country, the shogun Sukiyaki falls critically ill and had to select an heir. Since Oden was absent, he decided to appoint Kurozumi Orochi as his proxy. During the crew's travels, Whitebeard creates five divisions, appointing Oden as the commander of the second, much to his dismay. The next morning, sun shining, they are haggled by Teach as a child orphan to join their crew. With that being a soft spot for Whitebeard, he lets the child onboard. Meanwhile, the Roger Pirates were informed about a new samurai from Wano working under Whitebeard. Roger decided that he wanted to meet the samurai himself.

Orochi became Oden's proxy as he was at sea, but the other daimyos suspected him because he was a member of the Kurozumi Family. Orochi's past is revealed. In his childhood, he and his family became hunted because of what his grandfather did. Orochi hid away in the forest and found a desolate cabin. Inside there was an old man and woman, Semimaru and Higurashi.
Higurashi explained the truth about Orochi's grandfather. Since the Kozuki shogun was infertile, daimyos from the Shimotsuki, Kurozumi, Uzuki, Amatsuki, and Fugetsu Families all fought to be the next heir. Orochi's grandfather attempted to take over by assassinating the other daimyos, but the Kozuki shogun finally managed to give birth to an heir, Sukiyaki. The assassination plot was exposed, Orochi's grandfather committed suicide, and the people grew to despise the Kurozumi name.
Orochi deduced that all his miseries stemmed from Sukiyaki's being born, and that he would have become shogun if Sukiyaki was not born. Higurashi revealed she was also a member of the Kurozumi Family and that she had the power to transform into other people. She gave Orochi a Devil Fruit, allowing him to transform into an eight-headed serpent. Orochi plotted to usurp the throne.
Orochi needed to collect funding to buy weapons. He stole money from Yasuie while working undercover as a servant and asked Oden for loans without paying him back. Higurashi then disguised herself as Oden to convince the shogun to let Orochi into the palace, where he became the shogun's faithful servant. Years later, Higurashi disguised herself as Sukiyaki, pretended to fall ill and spread news that Sukiyaki died of the illness, allowing Orochi to rise to power.
Overseas, Oden reached his fourth year under the Whitebeard Pirates, giving birth to another child, Hiyori. They approached an island being plundered by Gold Roger. Oden picked a fight with Roger and was defeated, but Whitebeard appeared and they began to clash.

Happy to see each other, Whitebeard and Roger began to clash, and their crews also started battling each other. The battle lasted for a total of three days after which a ceasefire ended the battle. A gift exchange was carried out on the fourth day, and Shanks and Buggy appeared frightened by Teach, who had allegedly never slept in his life.
Roger meets with Whitebeard and Oden, amazed that Oden could read a Poneglyph. Roger originally thought that he had reached the end of the Grand Line on Lodestar Island, but since his Log Pose stopped working on the island, he deduced that there was a final island after that. He heard that the location of the final island was written in the Poneglyphs. Roger asked to borrow Oden for a year to reach the final island. 
Whitebeard originally refused, but Oden agreed, determined to find the final island of the Grand Line. He decided to part ways with Whitebeard and join the Roger Pirates with Toki and his baby children. Izou stayed with Whitebeard while Inuarashi and Nekomamushi snuck onboard Roger's ship as stowaways. 
The Roger Pirates stopped at Jaya and Oden stole food from the stores, unaware that it was a lawless town filled with violent criminals. The townspeople retaliated against Oden and blew him up with a grenade, but Oden managed to fight them off. At the end of the day, Oden used the stolen ingredients to make oden stew for his crew, who enjoyed the dish.

Roger contracted a terminal illness and knew he had under a year to live. Still, his crew kept going with their adventures, merrily singing Binks' Sake along the way to a Sky Island. The Roger Pirates went up a Knock Up Stream, entered Skypiea, and found the ancient golden city of Shandora. There they found its national treasure, the belfry bell as well as a Poneglyph. The Poneglyph told of a certain weapon called Poseidon located in Fish-Man Island. They decided not to steal the bell, but left behind a carved message stating that Roger had reached a sky island. They continued on their travels and left Skypiea, using an octopus balloon to get the ship down safely.
There was a Road Poneglyph in both Zou and Wano Country, and Roger had already gotten a copy of another Poneglyph belonging to Big Mom, so the Roger Pirates had already located three of the four Poneglyphs needed to find the final island. They set sail for Water 7, where they suspected the remaining Poneglyph is located, where they met Tom, their ship's creator.
They continued their adventure to the Red Line, finding the Sabaody Archipelago and, under the sea, Fish-Man Island. Its king, Neptune, explains that the weapon Poseidon is a certain mermaid born every several hundred years with the ability to control Sea Kings. Shyarly, the kingdom's fortune teller, states that this mermaid would be born in ten years. Roger decided to continue on his journey, his crew still cheerfully singing Binks' Sake.

Oden's adventure with the Roger Pirates led him back to his homeland, Wano Country, since there was a Road Poneglyph there. However, Toki fell ill from the fatigue from several years of adventure with Oden, so Oden was forced to leave her and the children in Wano. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi also decided to stay behind. Oden was also willing to stay, but Toki insisted that Oden sail with the Roger Pirates. As he set sail once again, he noticed a slight change in Wano Country. Meanwhile, Orochi and Higurashi expressed disappointment that the Kozuki Family now had a viable heir after Oden. 
The Roger Pirates travelled to Zou, where the last remaining Road Poneglyph was located. They were greeted by its duke, Hitsugisukan, who was thankful that Inuarashi and Nekomamushi were both alive. A young Pedro also asked to join the pirate crew. Roger denied him due to his age, but stated that his time would come.
The Roger Pirates now had all the information they needed to find the final island, but Buggy fell ill with a high fever just before the trip. He and Shanks had to stay behind while the others left. Before Roger left, he gave Shanks his iconic straw hat. 
News spread across the world that the Roger Pirates successfully conquered the entire Grand Line, being the first Pirate King in history. Finding the island, Roger thanked a certain "Joy Boy" who left him the treasure. Roger gave the island untouched for centuries the name, "Laugh Tale."

Roger became the first-ever Pirate King, after which he went back to the island to pick up Shanks and Buggy. However, he knew that his days were ending as he was dying from a terminal illness. The Marines, including Garp, as well as other pirates started fighting more aggressively to take Roger down. So, he decided to disband his crew. He recalls his times in Fish-Man Island, where he heard voices from the sea creatures saying that there will be a new king succeeding Roger. He decided to leave his crew behind at an island, where his first mate Rayleigh took the ship to take the other crew members home.
Rayleigh first took Oden back to Wano Country. Oden reunited with his wife and children, and the citizens were happy to see him return; he had become a celebrity since his wife helped the town after she recovered. Oden also met his retainers, except for Ashura and Denjiro. Ashura had returned to being a mountain bandit and Denjiro wandered around the country borrowing money. 
Kin'emon revealed what happened to the country while Oden was gone. Since Sukiyaki died of an illness, Orochi became the temporary shogun. Backed up by a powerful pirate, Kaidou, Orochi had almost absolute power and built several weapons factories operated with slavery. After a family was executed by Orochi, the Nine Red Scabbards protested the cruelty by going to Orochi's palace. However, while they were away, Kaidou's men invaded Kin'emon's palace and attempted to kill Momonosuke. Although the enemies were fought off, Toki was shot in the leg with an arrow protecting his child. 
Angry that his family was threatened and hurt by Orochi, Oden decides to confront him. He tells the others to watch over Kuri while he is gone. 

Against the advice of his retainers, Oden decided to go to the Flower Capital to confront Orochi. Oden broke into the palace and attempted to attack him, but Semimaru used his Devil Fruit ability to create a barrier protecting Orochi. Higurashi, who was nearby, revealed that she, too, had a Devil Fruit ability, which allowed her to disguise herself as Sukiyaki and hand the throne to Orochi. The real Sukiyaki never intended to give the throne to Orochi, and did not die from illness like how the news said he did. Citizens outside cheered on Oden to save the country, but they were struck with poisoned arrows that rained down from the sky.
Oden reclaimed the throne, but every week he stripped down naked in the courtyard and danced like a fool, singing about oden stew. For this weird behaviour, the citizens started believing him to be a fool and stopped respecting him. The children also made fun of him. Oden did not mind the ridicule, but found in the newspaper that Roger had been executed. Overseas, Whitebeard also receives the news, reflecting on the last time they met, where Roger told him all about the mysterious Will of D. 
Previously, Roger was taken to his birthplace, Loguetown, to be executed by impalement. Doflamingo, Buggy, Shanks, Mihawk, Crocodile, Moria and Dragon all witnessed the event. In his last moments, one person asked Roger where his treasure was. As his final words, Roger said that he hid the treasure for others to find. The executioners impaled Roger, ending the life of the first-ever Pirate King.
Oden went to the beach to mourn. Because Roger told his crew not to cry for him, Oden laughed in tears to mourn his death.

Five years passed since Oden's return to Wano Country and nothing much had changed. He had garnered a reputation of being the silly lord for his naked dances, but the other daimyos and his retainers supported him unconditionally.
However, Orochi made his move. He wanted to start building weapon factories in Kuri to transform the country into the leader of the weapons industry. Orochi captured Hyogoro, who refused to serve him, and sent him to prison. Those who attempted to aid Hyogoro, including his wife, were shot. Upon hearing the news, Oden decided that Orochi had become a great threat and must be stopped. Because of their unwavering loyalty to the country, Oden's retainers were named the Nine Red Scabbards.
Kaidou's men were strangely prepared for the attack, almost as if there was a spy within Oden's retainers. The Nine Red Scabbards faced off against hundreds of the Beasts Pirates as well as Kaidou himself in his dragon form. Kaidou revealed that the promises Orochi made to Oden were entirely a lie. The battle begins, and despite being greatly outnumbered, the Nine Red Scabbards started strong fighting off the Beasts Pirates. While Oden's men faced off, Toki watched over Momonosuke and Hiyori back in Kuri, pressured by Yasuie to keep them safe at all costs. 

To the disappointment of Kaidou, King and Queen, Oden and his retainers fought strongly against Kaidou's men, even having Shinobu join them. Kaidou decided to intervene personally with his "Bolo Breath" attack, but Oden remained unharmed by the attack. The two fought each other one-on-one while Oden's retainers battled King and Queen. Kaidou got the upper hand, knocking Oden into the fiery ground below.
Oden got up, ready to face him again. He coated his swords with Ryuo and leaps toward Kaidou. Although Kaidou's flames nearly knock him back down, through sheer willpower he braves the flames and slashes into Kaidou's body, being the first person to ever cut Kaidou. He prepares to finish off Kaidou while he is in his human form.
However, Higurashi disguised herself as Momonosuke while a Beasts Pirate held her at knifepoint. This distracted Oden just enough for Kaidou to critically wound him off guard. Ashura and Kin'emon attempted to aid him, but were defeated by King and Queen. Oden collapsed, earning victory for the Beasts Pirates. The fires set during the battle raged through the Udon forest for five days until the rain finally put it out.
Oden and the Nine Red Scabbards were all jailed in the Flower Capital, with only Shinobu being spared. Previously, Oden denied allegiance to her so that she would not be arrested with the others. Eventually, the Nine Red Scabbards' verdict was released, and they would be executed by boiling in three days.
Three days passed and the day of the execution arrived. The public event became a big spectacle since execution by boiling was rare. As Oden walks the plank into the pot, one of the executioners slipped on oil, fell into the pot, and suffered an excruciating death. Just before Oden entered the pot, he suggested a wager to Orochi: if he and his retainers could survive a set amount of time in the pot, they would be set free.

Although Orochi initially scoffed at Oden's suggestion, Kaidou accepted the challenge, agreeing to release the retainers if they survived one hour in the pot. Oden entered the pot, already being singed by the boiling oil. The other retainers run on the plank to also get in, but Oden lifts the plank up, allowing his retainers to sit safe from the boiling oil. Kaidou allowed him to do this, since they were technically in the pot.
Less than a minute passed and Oden already struggled to lift the plank. It forced Oden to stand on the bottom of the pot, and his veins burst from the pressure. Shinobu watched the event from the sidelines, and attacked a man who called Oden a "silly lord." She publicly called out the oppressive shogun Orochi. 
While in the pot, Oden reflected on what Orochi told him back at the palace. Orochi revealed that he held an immense hatred for Wano Country for humiliating his family. Since his grandfather's assassination plans were exposed and he committed seppuku, the remaining members of the Kurozumi Family were hunted down, beaten and killed by the other people. He intended to destroy the country through his oppressive regime as an act of vengeance for his family's life of suffering.
Shinobu reveals more, as she was hiding in the ceiling when it happened. Orochi kidnapped hundreds of citizens meant as tributes to Kaidou. At that point, Orochi offered Oden a bargain; Orochi would cease the kidnappings and he and Kaidou would leave Wano Country after five years. In exchange, Oden had to dance naked in the Flower Capital every week while being humiliated by Orochi. Oden decided he had no choice as he had no chance against Kaidou.
Shinobu finishes her story, stating that Oden's naked dances were in an effort to release the kidnapped citizens. Although he was not appreciated then, the citizens witnessing the execution were touched by Oden's sacrifices.

The truth about Oden's sacrifices are revealed to the public, and feeling bad for mocking him over the years, they rushed to the execution site to cheer him on, hoping for his survival. However, Oden knows that he will not survive the execution, so he tells his retainers to open up the country in his name. Meanwhile, Fukurokuju confronts Shinobu for telling everyone the truth, but Shinobu denounces the Orochi Oniwabanshu and pledges loyalty to the Nine Red Scabbards. Thirty minutes passed and Oden still stood strong, so Orochi ordered his men to further increase the temperature.
Ten minutes remained and Orochi became increasingly frustrated that Oden had not yet died. Through pure willpower, Oden pushed through the final ten minutes and completed the challenge. Despite this, Orochi decided to break his promises, and the firing squad pointed their guns on Oden anyway. 
After telling his retainers to open up the country for him, he threw the plank away from the execution area, allowing his retainers to flee to Kuri. They remembered their happy times with Oden as they tearfully ran away. Kaidou mentioned that he killed Higurashi, but then took out his pistol and shot Oden in the head. His final words, "Oden wouldn't be oden," was cut off, but the townspeople completed his sentenced with, "if it wasn't boiled."

News of Oden's death spread to Toki, who reflected on her final moments with Oden. Before he left to confront Kaidou, Oden entrusted Toki with a scroll to be opened if he died in the battle. The scroll prophecized that in twenty years, someone would arrive to save Wano Country.
Pursued by Beasts Pirates, the Nine Red Scabbards ran through the forest to escape back to Oden's castle. Ashura and Denjiro were forced to stay behind to battle the Beasts Pirates. 
Kaidou's men fired flaming arrows at Oden's castle, setting it ablaze with Toki, Momonosuke and Hiyori still inside. Momonosuke reflected on his time with Oden. As the Roger Pirates floated down from Skypiea, they got a view of the ocean from above. Hiyori also remembered when Oden listened to her playing the shamisen. Hiyori learned the song Moon Princess. Oden joked that the song should be played at his funeral, frightening Hiyori.
Kaidou entered the castle looking to kill Momonosuke. He confronted Momonosuke, but since he was too cowardly to cooperate, he lost interest, leaving him to die in the mansion. He transforms into his dragon form and leaves.
Most of the Nine Red Scabbards made it to the castle, except for Ashura and Denjiro. Toki transported the Nine Red Scabbards along with Momonosuke twenty years into the future. She entrusted Hiyori to be raised by Kawamatsu while she rode away to Bakura Town. At the city gate, she announced the prophecy given to her by Oden to the crowd just before she was shot down by an enemy sniper.

Orochi took a bath and complained about it being too cold, despite the water being scalding hot. He expressed his frustration that Oden's retainers had not been caught. Meanwhile, Oden's remaining followers were devastated by the deaths. Ashura, who survived the encounter in the forest with injuries, reflected on the prophecy given by Toki just before her death. Kawamatsu attempted to cheer up a grieving Hiyori, but to no avail. 
Denjiro had a meltdown while hidden in a secluded wooden cabin. In the end, this transformed him into a cold and cynical person under the new name, Kyoshiro. He created a new yakuza group and very begrudgingly pledged allegiance to Orochi to work undercover. At night, he became the infamous thief Ushimitsu Kozo. 
Eventually, Hiyori ran away out of guilt for Kawamatsu. She showed up at the brothel owned by Kyoshiro, who immediately recognized her. Kyoshiro took her into the brothel and raised her, transforming her into an oiran by the name of Komurasaki. She was to carry fake blood at all times so she could fake her death when needed.
Twenty years nearly passed and the Fire Festival was fast approaching. Paranoid of the Nine Red Scabbards' return, Orochi secures the country. He mentions a spy among them that was allied with Kaidou the entire time. This unknown spy was a member of the Kurozumi Family. He was originally part of a theatre troupe but his parents were killed in front of him. The spy met with Orochi and Higurashi, who tasked him with working undercover as one of Oden's retainers.  
The retainers who were transported to the future attempted to sail out to Zou, but their ship wrecked in stormy waters, and Raizo got separated from the group. Then, in Dressrosa, Momonosuke boarded on the wrong ship and also got separated. Kanjuro sacrificed himself there and allowed himself to get captured, allowing Kin'emon to escape Dressrosa and pursue the ship to Punk Hazard. Unfortunately, he encountered Law, who cut him into pieces. He would be reassembled and reunited with the others thanks to the Straw Hat Pirates' efforts. They formed the Ninja-Pirate-Mink-Samurai Alliance to take down Kaidou and gathered an impressive army to battle in Onigashima.

None of the people who promised to arrive at Tokage Port arrive, not even Luffy. The Nine Red Scabbards realize that since they took over Udon, Kaidou's forces will be informed of their presence soon. So, they have no choice but to set sail for Onigashima immediately, getting on a small rowboat to traverse the stormy waters. 
This marks the third time that their plans have been leaked to Kaidou's forces. Kin'emon deduces that there must be a spy among Oden's retainers. Kaidou hinted at a spy before but Kin'emon did not believe him until now.
Kanjuro makes the shocking revelation that he was the traitor. Being hunted for being a member of the Kurozumi Family his whole life, he decided to infiltrate Oden's retainers, sending confidential information to Orochi. Back in Zou, he told Jack that Raizo was located there, and he told Orochi about the new rendezvous point given by Yasuie. Orochi sabotaged the mission by bombing all connecting bridges, as well as the Thousand Sunny. 
Now aware of the Nine Red Scabbards' whereabouts, Kaidou's battleships are all lined up, ready to sink their rowboat. Kin'emon cuts down Kanjuro, only to reveal that it is only a drawing of him. The real Kanjuro is still at the port. He restrains Shinobu with drawn snakes and captures Momonosuke. Since Kanjuro was not on the ship, the Beasts Pirates bombard it with cannonballs.
The Straw Hats finally appear, having managed to repair the Thousand Sunny in time. The Thousand Sunny strikes the enemy ships with cannonballs. Law's submarine also appears from underwater, and so does Kid's ship from the opposite side. The three captains prepare to battle against the enemy forces. 

Although the arrival of the Straw Hat Pirates, Heart Pirates, and Kid Pirates was unexpected, the Beasts Pirates are still confident as they fire their cannons. Usopp and Zoro repel the attack. Meanwhile, back at Tokage Port, Kanjuro is surprised to see the pirates being present there, having reported to Orochi about the changes of Kin'emon's plan.  
Previously, two Gifters bombed the Thousand Sunny on Orochi's orders. The Straw Hats, who were located in Amigasa Village, heard the explosion at the coast. Luckily, the ship was built out of a durable wood and was unharmed by the explosion. However, the sails were burned and had to be repaired.  
The Gifters then reveal how they prevented the rest of the allies from getting to Tokage Port; they bombed the ships docked at the port, as well as all connecting bridges. The Gifters also reveal that the Beasts Pirates have formed an alliance with the Big Mom Pirates. Feeling satisfied, they decided to keep firing their cannons. 
Luffy, Law and Kid board the enemy ship. They get into a disagreement over who should destroy the ship. The three captains together go on to destroy the ship. Luffy defeats the eagle Gifter and Law takes out the butterfly Gifter. 
Soon, Kyoshiro and his family arrive on the ship, supposedly to take down the allied ships. However, he instead decide to slash the Beasts Pirates' ship, cutting it in half and sinking it.

Kyoshiro pledges allegiance to the Kozuki Family, even mentioning the Mountain God Incident caused by Kin'emon. He reveals that he is Denjiro, and he has been working undercover for Orochi for the last twenty years. He also explains that he freed 1200 prisoners from the Flower Capital, all of whom were willing to join the alliance. 
Then, Kyoshiro explains that Kin'emon misunderstood the new flyer given by Yasuie. What the lines really meant was to remove the middle syllables of "Habuminato" (Habu Port), getting "Hato" (wharf). The correct rendezvous point was at the wharf of Habu Port all along. Kanjuro deliberately misled Kin'emon's group so they would go to the wrong port.
Furthermore, although Orochi bombed the connecting bridges between regions, the allied forces had already crossed the bridge before then. Their ships were safely hidden away at the Habu wharf. The allied fleet sets sail for Onigashima. Kin'emon laments his error but joins the alliance, ready to battle.
Kanjuro laments having let the alliance get away but attempts to escape with Momonosuke by drawing a crane. The drawing is surprisingly good, as he had only pretended to be a bad artist. Although Kawamatsu swims back to shore to confront him, Kanjuro manages to get away, flying away with Momonosuke. Luffy and Kid sink another enemy ship, but see them flying away.

Usopp attempts to snipe down Kanjuro but he deflects the attack. Sanji also joins in but Kanjuro uses a special technique to repel him. He uses his hair to create an ink cloud which rains arrows of ink below. The arrows strike Sanji, as well as the allies and their ships. The Straw Hats attempt to evade the barrage of arrows. Kanjuro revels in the anguish of the allies.
Momonosuke is initially too afraid due to the height, but remembers Luffy encouraging him back in Zou. He also remembers the speech he gave to the prisoners back in Udon that earned the loyalty of the prisoners. With this courage, he yells out to the allies, telling them not to worry about him, and to focus on the invasion, stating he could escape on his own. 
An enemy ship that fled returns and attacks the allied fleet with a long-range cannon. The ship is too far away for Luffy's ship to fire at. However, Jinbe makes his appearance from underwater, destroying the ship with Fish-Man Karate. He decides to officially join the Straw Hat Pirates as the helmsman.

The Straw Hats are happy to welcome Jinbe into their crew. Jinbe parted ways with the Sun Pirates after they helped the Straw Hats escape Totto Land. He remembers when he first met Luffy at Impel Down, as well as when he saved Luffy from Akainu during the Summit War. After the war, Jinbe was the one who helped him restore his will again after he lost his brother. He reunited with Luffy on Fish-Man Island, where he gave him a life-saving blood transfusion. He decided to leave the Big Mom Pirates so he could serve Luffy. In present day, he takes the helm and begins steering.
The allied fleet starts to near Onigashima. Shishillian leads the Minks and Hyogoro leads the samurai. The allies gather in a circle on Law's submarine and Kin'emon discusses the plan. Onigashima is an island surrounded on all sides by mountains except for a single passage at the front, which is guarded at a torii gate. The castle, shaped like a skull, has a back entrance that could be entered, being less heavily-guarded than the front entrance. The allies would enter the front gate, use the mountain paths to reach the back entrance, and crash Kaidou's banquet to assassinate him.
Law proposes a better plan. Luffy and Kid would burst through the front gate as decoys. A second decoy would be sent around the mountain paths to the back entrance. The other allies would sneak in by water with Law's submarine, then be teleported into the island with Law's ability. Kin'emon and Denjiro would each lead a decoy group going around the castle.
The Straw Hats stop by an enemy fortress just in front of Onigashima where the its torii gate is located. The Thousand Sunny attaches its anchor to the gate before the Straw Hats set foot onto the island. All of them, except for Nami, Usopp and Chopper, decimate the enemy troops. 

The allies continue to discuss their plans on getting past the front gate when they notice the Straw Hats are missing. They realize that they have already taken over the torii gate, despite it being heavily armed. 
At Kaidou's mansion, the Beasts Pirates throw a raucous banquet in the dining hall. Orochi mingles with the women, Fukurokuju hides in the shadows and Queen eats oshiruko ravenously. Kaidou looks for his son but instead the Tobiroppo arrive.
Queen hosts a concert and performs his funk song, with Scratchman Apoo as the DJ. They call out for the Waiters, Pleasures, Gifters, and Shinuchi, but the Tobiroppo do not respond to their call. Queen brushes this off and calls out other groups. Orochi watches the concert from above with Fukurokuju guarding him. Kaidou grins at Orochi mischievously. Back at the concert venue, Queen reveals that the Charlotte Family would be joining them for the Fire Festival this year.
The Tobiroppo also watch from a secluded location. They are introduced as X Drake, Sasaki, Page One, Ulti, Who's-Who, and Black Maria. They comment on Ulti's short temper, as well as how they were summoned to Onigashima.
The Straw Hats raid the fortress for alcohol and make a toast together for their new helmsman. The Nine Red Scabbards appear, happy that the Straw Hats have broken through the Beasts Pirates' first line of defense. The allied fleet charges into Onigashima, and the Straw Hats put their mugs down, ready to join their allies in the raid.

Kid and Luffy race to Onigashima, with Jinbe controlling the Thousand Sunny. Meanwhile, Raizo briefs the plan. Kid and Luffy would enter through the front gate as decoys while Kin'emon and Denjiro each lead another decoy group through the mountain path. Starting the plan, Kin'emon sets sail while the Heart Pirates go underwater in their submarine.
The allies enter to find Onigashima vibrantly illuminated, with the guards at a banquet and unprepared for enemy attacks. Usopp knocks out the few intoxicated guards on lookout, allowing the others to safely disembark. However, they destroy their return ships, making it impossible for them to escape if they had to. They split up into their two decoy groups. 
Kin'emon uses a Devil Fruit technique, "Kin-chan Gofukuten," to create a gate that gives disguises. Kid, Killer, and the Straw Hats walk through the gate, disguising them all as Beasts Pirates. Kin'emon warns that if the disguises are damaged or removed, they will transform back into regular outfits. He makes his final remarks before going forward. 

Although Orochi believes that the Nine Red Scabbards have been stopped, the raid on Onigashima officially begins. Kin'emon leads the eastern forces while Denjiro leads the southern forces up the mountain paths. Kid decides to go his own way and barge into the island head-on, and Luffy follows him with Zoro. They enter the party hall and find a raucous party being thrown. Although the Nine Red Scabbards are concerned, Law reassures them that it was part of the plan, as Luffy and Kid were meant to be the first decoys at the front gate. 
Kanjuro leads Momonosuke down a secret passageway to Orochi, but gets lost in its maze-like tunnels. Momonosuke sees a viable knife on the floor.
Franky reveals two new vehicles, a motorcycle called the Kurosai FR-U IV and a tank called the Brachio Tank V. They are disappointed that Luffy and Zoro went into the island on their own. They all get in the vehicles and ride up the mountain paths, except for Robin and Jinbe, who walk up the mountain. A masked figure watches Robin and Jinbe. 
Ulti throws another temper tantrum in front of the Tobiroppo before they are finally summoned by Kaidou.
Meanwhile, Zoro attempts to blend in with the Beasts Pirates but one of the partygoers mocks the people of Okobore Town who could not afford to drink as lavishly as them. Angry, Zoro force-feeds the person alcohol until he faints. When a few of them tries to charge at him, he bursts Conqueror's Haki, knocking them down. At the party, Luffy also sees Beasts Pirates wastefully dumping oshiruko on the floor. This angers him, as he remembers when he fed Tama oshiruko, who accepted it gratefully.

The Tobiroppo goes to see Kaidou, unsure why they were summoned. King reveals that he is the one who summoned them, unhappy that Sasaki and Who's-Who are attempting to take his spot as an All-Star. The Tobiroppo were told to wait because Kaidou wanted them to meet Big Mom, who is still getting ready for the party.
An officer and flying squirrel SMILE user, Bao Huang, appears. She reveals that Kaidou will make a surprise announcement sometime during the party. Kaidou tells Sasaki and Who's-Who to capture his escaped son, Yamato. He offers them a chance to become an All-Star if they can bring him back safely. They accept the mission.
Kid, who is in the party, attacks some of the partygoers and demands to see Kaidou. Zoro also picks a fight with some of them, defeating them with fists and swords. Luffy, who is angry that the guests are dumping oshiruko on each other, drinks some of the soup to avoid wasting it. When one of the partygoers kicks over a pot onto the floor, Luffy angrily uses a Gear Third attack to defeat him.
The attack alerts the attention of the partygoers, who panic and retreat. Kid and Killer take advantage of the ruckus to advance. Meanwhile, Luffy tells Zoro what happened, who decides to join him. 

Remembering when he fed Tama in Okobore Town, Luffy explains how wasteful the partygoers were being. Zoro decides to join Luffy and battle the remaining Beasts Pirates in the party hall. Queen watches them from above, disappointed that Luffy escaped the prisoner mine.
Scratchmen Apoo notices and recognizes Luffy and Zoro, and he decides to play a song on his turnstable while Luffy and Zoro continue to wreak havoc on the Beasts Pirates. Queen realizes that Babanuki lied to him when he reported that Luffy and Kid were safely behind bars. Queen calls out to all the partygoers, offering a spot in the Tobiroppo to the person who captures Luffy.
Kid remembers when he met Apoo and Hawkins. They formed an alliance together as three members of the Worst Generation. However, that was when Kaidou jumped off a Sky Island and into Kid's lair. Kaidou was upset that two members of the Worst Generation took down his supplier of SMILE fruits. Apoo, who was allied with Kaidou all along, helped capture Kid and imprison him. 
Luffy and Zoro battle several Gifters, but Apoo intervenes with his Devil Fruit ability. He strikes his chest, creating a sound wave that strikes Luffy like a punch. Another attack slices Zoro in the chest with an invisible force. Luffy is momentarily knocked out by Apoo creating an explosion. Although they remove their disguises to fight better, Apoo still defeats them, sending them flying into the air.
Kid decides to intervene himself, using his Devil Fruit ability to attract the metal around him. He creates a gigantic metallic arm and uses the "Punk Gibson" attack to slam Apoo into a wall, breaking his glasses.

Kid confronts Apoo about his betrayal, but Apoo fights back, slashing Kid. Queen, shocked that Kid has also escaped from the prisoner mine, gives his men permission to kill him. They are attacked by one of the Numbers, Hatcha, a mace-wielding giant. A fired explosive arrow knocks Hatcha back, allowing Kid, Luffy and Zoro to escape to the castle while Wire and Heat hold Hatcha back. However, they are pursued by Apoo's sound attacks. Killer suggests covering their ears. This makes them immune to Apoo's attacks, since they only work if the target can hear the sound waves. Kid, Luffy and Zoro continue to advance to Kaidou's castle.
Big Mom, who is getting ready to join the party, receives word that her family is unharmed and are on their way. The Big Mom Pirates, led by Perospero, ride up the waterfall, approaching the country.
Chopper's group with the tank joins Kin'emon's forces up the east mountain path. Kin'emon discusses the plan. The group will split into another two groups; one group will enter through the side of the Skull Dome and the other through the back. This will allow them to attack Orochi and Kaidou from two angles. Denjiro leads the southern forces, the rest of the Nine Red Scabbards are under the sea, and Robin, Jinbe, Franky and Brook infiltrate the castle in disguise. Although Nami and Carrot's group encounters enemy Beasts Pirates, they use their good looks to charm their way through. 
Unfortunately, Kin'emon's group finds that the island blueprints were out of date, and the castle has been expanded since it was made. The forces encounter a pond on the eastern mountain path. Sanji finds a pleasure hall owned by Black Maria, but finds it empty since Kaidou's subordinates have left in search of the intruders. Nami, Carrot and Shinobu decide to break away from the group to search for Momonosuke.
Apoo explains what happened to Killer. When Killer was imprisoned, Orochi offered him a chance to save his captain if he ate a SMILE fruit. Killer ate the fruit but it was defective, giving him the side effects but no ability and making him a Pleasure.
Who's-Who decides not to intervene in the battle, instead working on tracking down Yamato before Sasaki does. He also thinks about how Queen said he would kill one of the Tobiroppo. Who's-Who mentions a certain Tobiroppo he wants to kill. 

Although Luffy attempts to follow the plan, Kid and Killer continue to wreak havoc on enemy units. Meanwhile, at the eastern mountain path, Kin'emon's forces split into two groups. One group enters the castle while the other continues down the path. Chopper's tank joins the group entering the castle. Most of them see Big Mom's shadow from the window and dive into the water, but she opens the window to find Chopper's tank.
The Big Mom Pirates, led by Perospero, finally make it back up the waterfall and into the country. However, they see another flying figure, Marco the Phoenix, who arrived to Wano Country to aid Luffy. Although they attack Marco, he uses his claw to push the ship back down the waterfall. Nekomamushi and Izou, who have also arrived to aid the rebellion, ride up the waterfall and watch the ship falling down. 
Marco remembers seeing Luffy in the Summit War of Marineford. When Akainu attempted to kill an unconscious Luffy, several Whitebeard Pirates, including Marco, Vista and Izou, all held Akainu back while Luffy was taken to safety.
Orochi meets with Kaidou and discusses the samurai's plan. Orochi believes that the allies have died at sea. He comments on how trusting the samurai were of Kanjuro prior to his betrayal, since he nearly died along with them in the boiling pot twenty years ago. However, Kaidou laments that Oden never told them the location of Laugh Tale. 
The Beasts Pirates outside, unaware that Kanjuro was on their side, act hostile towards him, but they are defeated and Kanjuro enters Orochi's throne room. He brings with him an unconscious, beaten Momonosuke. Meanwhile, Page One carries Ulti down the hallway.
Law's submarine encounters a particularly strong current. They decide to charge at it at full speed, passing the current but causing a jostle. Meanwhile, Nekomamushi just finished climbing the waterfall with his subordinates, but it he would unlikely make it to Onigashima in time. 
In the mansion, Zoro cuts down a wall to get to Kaidou, only to find several Beasts Pirates on the other side. He and Luffy fight the enemies off, with Luffy practicing his Ryuo on them. More enemies come, and Luffy prepares to battle them. 

Big Mom recognizes Chopper as a Straw Hat and chases his tank into a canyon, with her forces setting up cannons and mortars to fire at the tank. Although Chopper fires back and destroys the cannons and mortars, Big Mom throws a missile at the tank from above. The tank is unharmed but it is sent flying into the air. Chopper uses the chance to fire at Big Mom's head, then throws another explosive into Big Mom's mouth. Big Mom is still unharmed and chases the tank away.
Kanjuro comes to Orochi with an unconscious, beaten Momonosuke. He states that Momonosuke attempted to escape by cutting the rope with the knife, but Kanjuro beat him unconscious. However, Kanjuro reports that he failed to thwart the Nine Red Scabbards' plans, and that the allied forces are in Onigashima. However, Fukurokuju reports that since there were no enemy ships at the port, the island was safe from enemy attacks. Still, Orochi prepares to execute Momonosuke to damage the enemy morale. 
Marco's ship approaches Onigashima. He states that he is joining the raid in Oden's name.
Denjiro leads the southern forces up the mountain path only to find the map is out-of-date, as they encounter an unmapped gate. Sasaki exits the gate, and recognizes Kyoshiro, unaware that he was Denjiro. Although Sasaki was trusting of Denjiro, Denjiro's men ambush Sasaki, tying him with Seastone chains. From there, the southern forces split up into two groups; one would enter the Skull Dome while the other continues down the path. 
Since Big Mom has been lured away, Kin'emon's forces are able to safely come out of hiding. They make their advance, but Nami's group is spotted by Prometheus. Meanwhile, Ulti insists that Page One carry her down the hall, but they fall down the stairs and encounter Luffy.

A mysterious masked figure runs through the halls, excited to meet Luffy. She is chased by the Beasts Pirates who see her. She crosses through several rooms, including the one where Kid is fighting Beasts Pirates.
Meanwhile, Ulti checks on her brother Page One. She again throws a fit in front of him, remembering how she rode on Page One's back down the staircase. She then confronts Luffy, being told that he is a pirate intruder.
They immediately get into a fight and they headbutt each other, each attempting to knock the other down. Ulti gets the upper hand and slams Luffy into the floor. She transforms into the hybrid form of her Pachycephalosaurus fruit while Page One transforms into his full spinosaurus form. Although Luffy gets up, he acknowledges that he is in an Emperor's castle and fights at full strength. Eventually, Luffy grabs onto Ulti's horns and slams her into the ground, then defeats Page One with a Haki-imbued Gear Third punch.
In rage, Ulti transforms into her full beast form, headbutting Luffy. She prepares a more powerful headbutt, "Ul-Meteor," but the masked figure appears and strikes her down with the "Raimei Hakke" move. Excited to see Luffy, the masked figure carries him away, revealing himself to be Yamato, Kaidou's son.

Angry that the Big Mom Pirates' ship was knocked down the waterfall twice, Perospero rides to Onigashima on his candy slug. He swears revenge on King and Marco for knocking the ship down.
Chopper's tank fires several rounds at Big Mom but she is unharmed by the fire. She prepares to use her Devil Fruit powers on Usopp and Chopper, but upon hearing Prometheus' call, she walks away. Although the tank is unharmed, a transformation switch is activated, turning the tank into the lower half of the General Franky. Chopper must unite it with the Kurosai FR-U IV to form the full General Franky.
Big Mom walks through the halls in search of Zeus, creating homies with pieces of her soul. Nami, knowing she could not win in a battle against Big Mom, decides to run into the performance hall with Zeus to avoid her. Meanwhile, Zoro is in the halls but is surrounded on both sides. He encounters a group of Gifters who offer him a spot in the Beasts Pirates. Zoro refuses and cuts the enemies down.
Robin and Jinbe are among the partygoers and they spot Hyogoro, and they are glad that the samurai successfully entered the castle. Robin is harassed by a drunken Beast Pirate but she knocks him out. Then, Orochi appears on the party room balcony, showing Momonosuke tied to a cross and preparing to execute him. Kaidou is disappointed that Orochi interrupted his party.
The medical team tends to Ulti's mouth injury and helps her regain consciousness. Page One, who had no injury other than a dislocated jaw, goes to chase after Yamato. In the hallway, Yamato attempts to speak with Luffy but Luffy refuses to listen because he was Kaidou's son. He unleashes several attacks on Yamato, who defends himself against the attacks. This reminds Yamato of the time he battled with Ace. 

Orochi prepares to execute Momonosuke to damage the enemy morale. He explains to the crowd that Momonosuke was a time traveller who was transported twenty years into the future by his mother, Toki. The crowd votes on his method of execution. Although Robin, Jinbe, Hyogoro and the other allies are unhappy to see Momonosuke on the cross, they are forced to jeer at him to blend in.
At Onigashima's coast, Law's submarine approaches the back of the island, battling strong currents. The submarine goes up to the surface, then Law creates a Room for his Devil Fruit ability. Using the Shambles move, he switches the samurai on the submarine with mountain rocks on the island. This transports the samurai to a snowy mountain peak. Marco also arrives, having carried Nekomamushi and Izou to Onigashima. Kikunojo has a heartfelt reunion with his brother after twenty years separated. Ashura and the others prepare to enter the castle.
Kaidou gets frustrated that Yamato has not been captured yet. He decides to personally appear at the party, appearing by Momonosuke. Along with the execution, Kaidou introduces a certain "New Onigashima Project."
Finally in private, Luffy grants Yamato five minutes to explain himself. Yamato explains that he idolized Oden and when he was executed, Yamato proclaimed himself to be Oden. He went to Kuri and found Oden's logbook, reading about his adventures with the Whitebeard and Roger Pirates. Back in the present day, Yamato removes his mask, revealing himself to be a woman. She decided to become a man as she desired to become Oden. 

On the top of the castle, Law and Bepo break away from the group to achieve their own goals. However, the remaining samurai are attacked by headless centaurs, deducing they are drawings made by Kanjuro. Kanjuro comes out of the castle door and confronts them, revealing what happened to Momonosuke. Momonosuke attempted to escape by cutting his ropes using a knife. Although he managed to cut Kanjuro's hand, he was brutally beaten unconscious and taken to Orochi. Kanjuro finishes by announcing Momonosuke's public execution at the party. 
Outraged and feeling betrayed, the samurai wage a battle against Kanjuro's forces. Nekomamushi has replaced his hand with a double-barrel gun and Inuarashi's leg a sword, so they battle fiercely against their enemies. However, Kikunojo still attempts to sympathize with Kanjuro, believing that there was still some good in him. After Kanjuro denounces the samurai for the last time, she enters the battle.
Nami's group is chased by Prometheus down the halls, and are further attacked by the homies. Nami and Carrot are captured, but Shinobu flees. Zeus also attempts to intervene, but is grabbed by Big Mom's obscured hand.
Yamato reveals that he met Ace when he visited the country. They battled because Ace attempted to assassinate Kaidou. Yamato also explains that he wishes to be free like Oden, but Kaidou fitted him with shackles that would explode if he left the country. Luffy offers to remove his handcuffs for him, but they are interrupted by Kaidou's speech from the performance floor. Kaidou announces to the crowd his official alliance with the Big Mom Pirates against the World Government. In the hallway, Big Mom attacks Zeus before personally crashing into the party hall. 

Kaidou continues his announcement to the crowd below. His final objective is to obtain the ancient weapons and use it to destroy the world order, putting the world into a state of endless warfare. He also announces a new plan: he would take full control of the country and enslave all citizens, including those in the Flower Capital. Orochi objects, arguing that the capital is the pride of the Kurozumi Family. Kaidou promptly takes out his sword and decapitates him. Upon seeing Momonosuke on the cross through a crack in the ceiling, Luffy and Yamato fall through the ceiling into the party below. They go to rescue Momonosuke.
Kanjuro battles Kikunojo atop the mountain, creating drawings to battle her. Eventually, Kikunojo gets the upper hand, but Kanjuro begs for forgiveness. Still believing there is good left in Kanjuro, she attempts to forgive him, but Kanjuro reveals it to be an act, attacking her. He states that shared absolutely no feelings with the samurai and never cared for them at all. Finally accepting that Kanjuro's act was entirely fake, Kikunojo enters battle and manages to cut him down. Kanjuro collapses while Kikunojo gets on her knees in tears.
Kin'emon and Denjiro have reached the back of the castle and join the group, who is still hurt from Kanjuro's betrayal. Still, they decide to move forward and continue their advance. Remembering her happy memories with Kanjuro, she decides to set them aside and join the rest of the group.
Kaidou continues the announces. He plans to move the island of Onigashima into the Flower Capital. This would cause Wano Country to collapse, creating a new country, New Onigashima, under control of the Beasts Pirates and with Yamato as the new shogun. Enraged that he was being forced into the plan, Yamato protests.

To the shock of Hyogoro, Fukurokuju and the Orochi Oniwabanshu all agree to join Kaidou's side and abandon their shogun. Kaidou then goes to Momonosuke, remembering when he left him in the burning castle to die. Just like twenty years ago, Kaidou demands to know Momonosuke's name, offering to cancel the execution if he turns out not to be the son of Oden. The crowd encourages Momonosuke to lie to escape the execution. 
Yamato and Luffy run down the hall, where Yamato hears, to his delight, that the Oden's retainers are alive. However, they are pursued by Who's-Who and Ulti. Meanwhile, Chopper's tank, on its two legs, run through a dark cave, accidentally waking up one of the Numbers. At the seas outside the island, Perospero battles against Marco, where they both express their disapproval of Kaidou and Big Mom's alliance.
Back at the performance hall, through sheer bravery, Momonosuke gives his real name to Kaidou, revealing he is a member of the Kozuki Family. This greatly angers Kaidou. Just then, Luffy removes Yamato's handcuffs and they explode, revealing, to Yamato's horror, that the shackles really were explosive. He prepares to attack Kaidou, but Luffy stops him so that the samurai could act. 
Kin'emon's forces advance through the hallways and break into the platform with Kaidou and the All-Stars. Nekomamushi strikes down Jack and Izou manages to disarm King. Shocked that the Nine Red Scabbards have returned like the prophecy said, Queen makes the announcement to the crowd that they are facing a full-scale raid. Together, the Nine Red Scabbards yell "sunacchi" before slashing Kaidou, cutting him like how Oden did twenty years ago.

As he falls, Kaidou realizes that the Nine Red Scabbards used Ryuo to pierce through his body. He crashes into the ground below.
The All-Stars realize that Luffy's group was only a decoy for the real invading group. Ulti confronts Yamato for striking her down earlier. Yamato officially defects from the Beasts Pirates, swearing allegiance to the Kozuki Family. He attacks the enemy Beasts Pirates and battles Ulti head-on. Ulti leaps into the air and prepares a headbutt, but Yamato strikes her with his club. 
Meanwhile, Big Mom spots and appoaches Luffy. They quickly enter battle, and punch each other, but Big Mom overpowers Luffy, sending him crashing into the ground. Getting up, Luffy declares that his goal was not to only take down Kaidou, but also his, Big Mom's and Orochi's subordinates.
Shinobu sneaks onto the balcony in an attempt to rescue Momonosuke, while Robin and Jinbe prepare to strike when needed. In the hallway, Nami and Carrot fight back against the homies, striking them with electricity and killing them. Nami runs after Big Mom to retrieve Zeus. Terrified of her, Zeus rejoins Nami.
The Nine Red Scabbards attempt to kill Kaidou by stabbing him with their swords. Kin'emon recites the prophecy given by Toki twenty years prior. They nearly succeed in killing Kaidou, but he unleashes a powerful attack knocking them all back. He deduces that the samurai have allied themselves with Luffy to take him down. Kaidou attempts to deceive the samurai, claiming that Luffy would betray them whenever he saw fit. With great trust in Luffy, Kin'emon refuses to back down. Luffy declares an all-out war.

War ensues in Onigashima. Big Mom and Kaidou assume that the raid would be easily defeated, as Luffy only had a few hundred troops. However, Queen gets a report that there are enemies in the thousands charging into Onigashima. The samurai troops join Zoro, the former Udon prisoners join Killer, and Kid and Law also join in on the battle. Furthermore, at the shore, Marco and Perospero join forces and battle against Kaidou's troops. Hearing all these reports from his subordinates, Queen calls off the banquet, telling all the partygoers to enter battle and declaring an all-out enemy raid.
Shinobu, who is hiding in the ceiling just above Momonosuke, prepares to rescue him. However, she cannot act immediately as the All-Stars are still on the balcony. 
Kaidou transforms into his dragon form and flies out of the hole, ready for combat. He flies through the ceiling and into the sky. The Minks appear to confront him, but Jack's forces appear to stop them. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi remember when Jack devastated the Mokomo Dukedom in search of Raizo. Jack's men tortured innocent Minks, even using a toxic gas to wipe them out. Jack also remembers when his ship was decimated by Zunesha and he was left to drown in the sea.
The Minks stare at the sky, allowing them to transform into their Sulong forms. The Minks battle Jack as well as one of the Numbers, Nangi. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi also transform into their Sulong form to battle Kaidou.

Battle ensues in the party hall, and Queen receives several reports from his subordinates. While he and King are distracted, Shinobu silently drops from the ceiling and attempts to rescue Momonosuke. She uses a technique in an attempt to break the chains. Although she damages the chains, she is caught by King, who throws her off the balcony and sends her crashing into a tower. She takes out a parachute to slow her fall.
Momonosuke's chains finally break, and he falls off the balcony. King pursues him, but Sanji, appearing in his raid suit, intervenes. He catches Momonosuke and passes him to Shinobu before battling King. King gets the upper hand, transforming into his pteranodon form, piercing Sanji with his nose and crashing into a building. At this point, Yamato abandons his battle with Ulti to take care of Momonosuke.
Big Mom confronts Luffy. She recalls how the Straw Hats ruined the Big Mom Pirates' wedding. Luffy and his clones destroyed her wedding cake, and Brook destroyed her only portrait of Mother Carmel. In an act of revenge, she takes out Napoleon and unleashes her Ikoku attack, creating a powerful shockwave. Luffy successfully evades, but the Sasaki was tied to is destroyed, freeing him.
Big Mom notices that Zeus is missing, and catches him being carried away by Nami. Big Mom grabs Zeus, but Frank and Brook appear in their motorcycle and run over Big Mom's face, knocking her over. Brook then slices Zeus in half.

Nami is excited to see Franky and Brook. The samurai continue to battle the Beasts Pirates in the performance hall.
However, the Numbers play with the Brachio Tank like a toy, ripping the hatch open to see Usopp and Chopper before throwing the tank into the ground. Unharmed by the beatings, the tank fires back, but the Numbers are also unharmed by the fire. One of the Numbers picks the tank up and shakes it around, making Usopp and Chopper dizzy.
Yamato runs through the halls to rescue Momonosuke, but is still pursued by Ulti. Yamato is forced to battle her, but he gets the upper hand, knocking her into a wall. He goes to meet Shinobu and Momonosuke. Although Luffy insists that Yamato could be trusted, they get suspicious when Yamato claims to be Oden. They flee from him.
Big Mom gets up, infuriated that two more Straw Hats have shown up. Franky attempts to fight back by firing a laser beam, but the Numbers appear. Their gigantic size reminds the Straw Hats of the time they battled Oars in Thriller Bark. Big Mom explains that they were artificial recreations of ancient giants from Punk Hazard that were failed experiments but were purchased by Kaidou.
Franky notices that one of the Numbers has the Brachio Tank in its hand, so he fires a laser beam at it. Big Mom attempts to attack Franky, but Robin and Jinbe intervene. Jinbe flips Big Mom over, and Robin creates a path of hands that rolls her away. To the excitement of Usopp and Chopper, Franky prepares to combine the Brachio Tank and the Kurosai FR-U IV into the Iron Pirate.

Big Mom rolls out of the castle and down the entrance steps, being spotted by Perospero. Meanwhile, Sasaki's chains are broken off by his subordinates. Sasaki swears revenge on Denjiro for betraying him.
Atop the Skull Dome, Kaidou and Jack's forces battle against the Minks. Although Jack fights off the Minks, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi take over, transforming into their Sulong forms to face him.
Inside the castle, Luffy and Zoro meet up on the platform, intending to go to the rooftop to face Kaidou. They attempt to launch through the hole in the ceiling, but they are caught by Queen's dinosaur mouth and King also appears. They are flung off the balcony, where they are faced by Jaki, one of the Numbers, on the ground below. However, Franky combines the two vehicles into the Iron Pirate, a giant robot. Operating the robot, Franky shoots down Jaki with his cannon. Unharmed by King's attack, Sanji emerges from the rubble and removes his raid suit. Although he is attacked by enemy units, Luffy and Zoro fight at his aid. 
The Straw Hats battle against the enemy Beasts Pirates, remembering their past adventures as a crew. Despite being far stronger than most of the Beasts Pirates, the Straw Hats are still greatly outnumbered. Still, they gather and prepare to battle against the All-Stars and the Tobiroppo. 

X Drake and Basil Hawkins watch the battle from above. Secretly fearing Kaidou and Big Mom's alliance, Drake is happy that Luffy has come to stop them. He prepares to betray the Beasts Pirates, but Hawkins refuses to join him.
King and Queen also meet on the balcony, with Queen still questioning how the Udon prisoners escaped. King tells the Tobiroppo to stop all enemy invaders from climbing onto the Skull Dome to battle Kaidou.
After hearing that Drake was attempting to betray the Beasts Pirates, Who's-Who decides to carry out his own plot against the traitor. He claims that he is plotting to kill Queen, so Drake joins him to confront Queen together. However, Who's-Who instead turns on Drake, shooting him in the arm. Queen reveals that they were aware of Drake's betrayal all along; he was spotted letting Law out of prison, so they deduced that he was a traitor. Queen prepares to torture Drake for information regarding his true allegiances.
The Straw Hats aid the samurai in battling another one of the Numbers, Goki. Luffy remembers when they defeated Oars in Thriller Bark. Although that battle required the efforts of the entire crew, Luffy transforms into his Boundman form to battle Goki on his own.
Drake escapes, throwing a grenade at Queen before transforming and fleeing. Leaping into the party, he uses his swords to cut down another Number, Juki, just as Luffy defeats Goki. Drake officially defects from the Beasts Pirates, joining Luffy's side.

The Straw Hats recognize Drake as one of the Tobiroppo, remembering him from the bathhouse incident. Although they are suspicious of him, Luffy accepts him into the alliance. Still, Zoro battles him, still untrusting of him. While the samurai protect the Straw Hats, they advance forward. Usopp and Nami are chased by Page One and Ulti, and Luffy and Sanji are attacked by Apoo's sound attacks. They cover their ears to evade the attacks. 
Apoo summons Hatcha to defeat the Straw Hats. Hatcha is then enticed by the General Franky, and attempts to chase it. Franky decides to run away, chased by Hatcha, to prevent him from further rampaging in the live floor.
Zoro and Drake battle, with Zoro untrusting of Drake because he refuses to reveal his true identity. However, their battle is interrupted by Apoo, who attempts to summon more Numbers. United by a mutual hatred for Apoo, Zoro accepts Drake into the alliance and they battle him together.
Queen fires a machine gun into the crowd, striking several samurai fighters with bullets. Although their wounds are shallow, the bullets immediately begin taking effect, freezing the victims' skin and coating it with ice. Drake finds that the bullets fired were Excite Bullets, and the samurai were affected by another one of Queen's viruses.

The virus in the Excite Bullets causes a transformation in its targets, freezing them and covering their skin with ice, as well as making them grow horns and fangs like an oni. The victims became hostile, attacking their allies and biting them, infecting them as well. Queen fires another round into the crowd, striking more samurai.
Yamato chases after Momonosuke, who is being carried away by Shinobu. Shinobu is untrusting of Yamato for claiming to be Oden, but Momonosuke is willing to listen, desperate to speak with his father again. As Yamato continues to chase his son, Black Maria sings a song in the empty banquet hall prophesizing about a certain separated couple finally reuniting. 
The fierce battle atop the Skull Dome continues, and Shishilian manages to defeat Nangi in his Sulong form. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi confront Jack, remembering how Jack terrorized the Mokomo Dukedom and severed their limbs. They battle, and the two Minks triumph, slashing Jack's eye and cutting off part of his tusk. Kaidou decides to take over the battle, allowing Jack to leave the battle to receive medical treatment for his injuries.
Wanda and the Mink forces attempt to stop enemy Beasts Pirates from climbing to the top of the Skull Dome. Carrot also joins in but is forced to leave after hearing Perospero. Just outside the castle, Big Mom gets up from falling down the stairs and speaks with Perospero and Marco. Perospero initially protests her alliance with Kaidou, but decides to trust her, but this places him at odds with Marco. Marco battles Big Mom fiercely just as Carrot shows up and recognizes Perospero. She remembers how her mentor, Pedro, sacrificed himself to help the Straw Hats escape from Perospero.
As Luffy and Sanji run through the hallways, Kaidou fires a fireball at the samurai. Kin'emon slashes the fireball, cutting Kaidou in the process.

As Queen continues firing Excite Bullets into the crowd, King orders Bao Huang to locate Kozuki Momonosuke. Momonosuke is in the hallways, still being chased by Shinobu. Although Momonosuke and Shinobu attempt to hide from them by hiding on the ceiling, an explosion causes them to fall and be seen by Yamato. They run away from Yamato just as they are spotted by a black cat with Bao Huang's mask. With this, Black Maria continues her song hinting at a reunion. The song ends with Maria breaking the string of her shamisen.
The Nine Red Scabbards work together to battle Kaidou. Raizo and Denjiro strike Kaidou's underbelly, Kin'emon climbs onto his body and pierces his head, and Inuarashi and Nekomamushi strike him with Electro. Kaidou is still unharmed, flinging them to the ground before blasting them with fire. Still, just like Oden twenty years ago, the samurai rise in the flames. They remember when Oden offered to teach his retainers Oden Two Sword Style, but they all refused. So, using their individual fighting styles, they each take turns attacking Kaidou, each managing to pierce his body.
Kaidou is still unharmed. So, the Nine Red Scabbards decide to mimic Oden's Two Sword Style in honor of Oden. Kaidou shoots several fireballs at them, but they evade them. Kin'emon clashes against Kaidou's Bolo Breath, then they all perform a move, "Togen Totsuka," slashing Kaidou's underbelly just like Oden did twenty years ago.

The slash that the Nine Red Scabbards inflicted on Kaidou reopens the scars that Oden made. Kaidou collapses from the injury.
Back inside, Queen takes out his gatling gun and fires another round of Excite Bullets. Zoro is forced to fight off the infected samurai who became hostile from the virus. Although he recognizes one of the samurai from the hallway, he is forced to cut him down to avoid getting infected. The Straw Hats are appalled by this new highly-infectious virus, and Queen names it his masterpiece, the Ice Oni.
Luffy and Sanji fight off a group of Beasts Pirates, but they are faced with a Shinuchi, gorilla SMILE user Briscola. Jinbe strikes Briscola down from behind. Although he gets up, Jinbe defeats him with a punch, sending him crashing into the ceiling. Together, Luffy, Sanji and Jinbe battle against the remaining Beasts Pirates.
The people in the Flower Capital celebrate, but they secretly long for the return of the Kozuki Family. Minatomo the carpenter sits down for a drink, and remembers the old days where the country was run by Sukiyaki and Oden. The townspeople pray that the Nine Red Scabbards are battling against Orochi and Kaidou.
Atop the Skull Dome, the Nine Red Scabbards decide to decapitate Kaidou to finish him off, but he gets up before they could do so. Kaidou reflects on his battle with Oden; although he laments that Higurashi used a dirty trick to sabotage Oden, he decides to attack the samurai at full strength. He unleashes a series of flying slashes, and one of them cuts off Kiku's arm.

Shinobu and Momonosuke are chased by Yamato into the right brain tower. Shinobu uses a falling piece of paper to divert Yamato away from him. They are now safe from him, but they are spied on by Bao Huang's black cat. Bao Huang reports back to King about Momonosuke's location, and King sends the report to his subordinates. He orders all available Shinuchi and Tobiroppo to go to the right brain tower to kill Momonosuke.
Shinobu runs into a dark location only to be ambushed by the Beasts Pirates' Armoured Division, led by Sasaki. All members of this division have SMILE abilities that give them an armour-like defense. Shinobu is attacked by a turtle SMILE user, and Momonosuke refuses to run away to save himself. Just then, Yamato appears at his aid, defeating the turtle man and sending him crashing into a wall. Yamato declares that he will fight for the Kozuki Family.
Queen starts to get bored of shooting the enemy samurai, so he decides to start firing at his own men as well. He shoots the Pleasures, knowing that they would simply laugh in response to being shot. The uninfected samurai battle the ice oni to avoid getting infected. However, one of the yakuza, Omasa, is scratched by an oni's nail and is infected. Chopper swears revenge on Queen for his gross misuse of manmade viruses.
Luffy, Jinbe and Sanji run through the hallways and defeat Hamlet, a giraffe SMILE user, and Fourtricks, a chicken SMILE user.
After being slashed by Kaidou's attack, Kiku loses her left arm, her helmet shatters and her sword breaks in two. Inuarashi orders his subordinates to evacuate the rooftop to avoid the slash attacks. Izou bandages Kiku's arm and Kin'emon cauterizes the wound with his flaming sword to stop it from bleeding. Fully treated, Kiku returns to battle. Kaidou transforms back into his human form, stating that death brings completion to a human.

The Ice Oni virus spreads throughout the live floor, affecting several people. Queen performs a short sadistic rap about the miseries of the victims. Omasa considers killing himself to prevent himself from becoming an oni, but Hyogoro dissuades him, reminding him of how the Udon prisoners were cured of the Mummy virus by the Straw Hats. However, still needing "excitement," Queen fires another round of Excite Bullets into the crowd.
The Straw Hats are now cornered by infected oni. Chopper deduces that Queen must have created an antibody to cure the virus, so he must acquire it from him to develop a cure. Queen announces that the virus will kill its victims in an hour at most. Apoo tries to escape the live floor but he finds that the gates are locked.
Queen introduces a game he calls "Ice Oni Tag"; he gives a vial containing the only sample of the antibody to Apoo. The people must fight desperately for the antibody or else they would inevitably become infected themselves. The Straw Hats must win this game and acquire the sample to cure everyone. Queen performs an alternate version of his funk dance, with sadistic lyrics celebrating the bloodsport. He then begins the game, and Apoo is chased by the crowd for the vial.
On the rooftop, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi attack Kaidou but they are struck down with his spiked club, and they lose their Sulong forms.
In the right brain tower, Yamato decides to aid Shinobu. He reveals that he attended Oden's execution and heard Shinobu's speech. Sasaki's forces bombard Yamato with cannons, but he endures the barrage. Apologizing for not saving Momonosuke from the burning castle twenty years ago, Yamato introduces himself as Oden.

Marco battles with Big Mom, with his blue phoenix flames clashing with Prometheus' flames. Although Marco defeats Prometheus, Big Mom picks him up and Perospero prepares to shoot him with a candy arrow.
Apoo is chased by Zoro and Drake, who attack him viciously for the antibody sample. Queen watches from above, recognizing two of the Straw Hats as Roronoa Zoro and Sanji, son of Vinsmoke Judge. Brook is bitten by an oni, but due to having no skin, he is unaffected.
Ulti and Page One continue to chase Nami and Usopp down the halls. They separate, and Ulti chases Nami into a bathhouse. She overpowers Nami and strikes her to the ground with a headbutt. Usopp attempts to intervene with his Pop Greens but with Page One's help Ulti defeats Usopp. With this, Nami surrenders, and Ulti pressures her to admit that Kaidou will become the Pirate King instead of Luffy.
Nami recalls when she first met Luffy in Orange Town. Later, Luffy stood up against her oppressor, Arlong, and liberated her village. Remembering how well Luffy treated her, Nami bravely declares to Ulti that Luffy will become the Pirate King. Just then, Tama appears with Komachiyo, who bites Ulti's head and frees Nami.

Still in grief over Pedro's death, Carrot becomes furious at the sight of Perospero. Wanda consoles her, stating that Pedro took his turn as he promised and did not die with regrets. Together, they transform into their Sulong forms. Just before Perospero could fire his arrow, Wanda and Carrot appear and scratch his face.
Perospero immediately recognizes Carrot as the Mink who sunk the enemy ships on the waters of Totto Land. They reflect on Pedro's sacrifice, but Big Mom attempts to get away. While Marco pursues her, Wanda and Carrot confront Perospero.
Back in the bathhouse, Page One assists his sister, knocking Komachiyo away. He strikes Usopp with his dinosaur nose, sending him flying but landing safely onto Komachiyo's back. While Hihimaru the baboon holds Page One back, Komachiyo rides away, and Tama reveals that an enemy gave her a ride to Onigashima.
In the right brain tower, Yamato battles against the armoured division, breaking through their shields. Although Sasaki prepares to battle him personally, they are interrupted by Franky and Hatcha. Yamato fights Hatcha, defeating him with a single blow. He escapes with Shinobu and Momonosuke. While Sasaki sends a pursuit unit after them, the armoured division prepares to battle Franky.
As Yamato runs through the halls, he declares that the future of Wano Country lies in Momonosuke's hands.

Law defeats guards and finds a Poneglyph. Remembering Corazon's sacrifice as well as the mysterious initial D in his name, he wonders why he lives the checkered life he lives.
Back inside the castle, Chopper, having contracted the Ice Oni virus, attempts to nullify the symptoms by slowing the freezing. Brook uses a torch to keep Chopper's body warm, and this prevents the virus from spreading to the rest of his body. Just then, Big Mom appears riding on both Prometheus and Zeus.
In the hallways, Kid runs through the halls but encounters rattlesnake SMILE user Poker. Kid decides not to finish Poker off and get past him.
On the rooftop, the Nine Red Scabbards leap at Kaidou and stab him, but Kaidou unleashes a lightning bolt knocking them all back. Although the samurai prepare a counterattack, Kaidou brutally beats all of them with his club, leaving them gravely injured on the ground. Kaidou ends up breaking the rooftop with his strikes, sending Kiku's severed arm falling into the live floor below, which is found by Zoro. Big Mom decides to ride up to join Kaidou on the rooftop. 
Zoro becomes enraged by Queen's lack of empathy for the ailing people. He steps up to Apoo and uses a resheathing technique to cut him down. He then acquires the antibody sample and entrusts it to Chopper before moving on to another area. Chopper announces his findings to the crowd, and works on creating a cure for the virus.
Luffy, Sanji and Jinbe run up the stairs on the way to the rooftop, but Sanji hears the voice of a woman being harassed. 

Sanji splits away from the group to rescue the harassed woman. However, when Sanji burst through the door, he gets caught in a sticky spider web. This is revealed to be a trap created by Black Maria. She reveals corpses hanging in a closet, who have also fallen into her trap and were killed. Maria shows she has feelings for Sanji, and they have a romantic moment.
Luffy and Jinbe are watched by Bao Huang's cat. Huang reports to King that Luffy has reached the third floor. King positions two Shinuchi, Poker and a gorilla SMILE fruit named Mizerka, at the stairs to the fourth floor. However, Luffy meets with the Udon prisoners, who have built him a ladder to the next floor. Luffy climbs up, avoiding Mizerka and Poker.
On the rooftop, Kin'emon is the only one left standing against Kaidou. Kaidou unleashes a strike knocking him down.
An earthquake strikes Onigashima. At this point, Marco enters the live floor and finds Zoro. Outside, Yamato, Momonosuke and Shinobu start to evacuate, but the tremors abruptly stop.
Yamato discovers that the Beasts Pirates' ship has disappeared from the port, leaving behind a lilac fog. He explains that Kaidou can fly by creating Flame Clouds and using them as footholds to move through the air. Kaidou, who conjures Flame Clouds from the rooftop, is now using the clouds to lift up the entire island of Onigashima to move it to the Flower Capital. The island is completely out of the ocean and is floating in the air.

Chopper, discovering that fire can be used against the Ice Oni virus, requires a large amount of fire for the infected people. Marco uses his Devil Fruit power to create blue flames, setting Chopper on fire. These flames are warm enough to stop the virus' spread, but not hot enough to burn him. With this, Marco sets all the infected people on fire, granting them temporary relief from the virus' effects. Chopper leaves with Minks Miyagi and Tristan to work on the antidote.
Queen attempts to turn the Beasts Pirates against the Straw Hats, claiming that Chopper does not intend to heal everyone with the antidote. While Hyogoro's forces hold the enemy army off, Drake defeats a vengeful Apoo. This allows Chopper to start working on a cure.
On the way to the rooftop, Luffy and Jinbe encounter a room with enemy Beasts Pirates. Jinbe holds them off as Luffy continues on his way. However, Jinbe is watched by an obscured enemy. 
In the right brain tower, Franky battles the Armored Division with General Franky, but Sasaki intervenes and transforms into a triceratops. They both clash. Meanwhile, Ulti and Page One rampage in their beast forms. Page One cuts down Hihimaru with his claw. Although he perseveres and gets up, he is beaten a second time. Page One and Ulti then pursue Nami, Komachiyo and Tama.
Yamato, Momonosuke and Shinobu arrive at a storehouse to hide in. While Shinobu rests to take care of her wounds, they find a stone statue of a dragon. Yamato explains that the statue once decorated the front of the island, but it was damaged by Ace and left abandoned in the storehouse. Yamato explains that when Ace visited Wano Country, he attempted to kill Kaidou.

Sanji attempts to escape but is caught by Black Maria's silk. It is revealed that Black Maria has a Devil Fruit power allowing her to transform into a Rosamygale grauvogeli, an ancient spider. Meanwhile, Luffy battles fiercely against the Beasts Pirates, and the obscured enemy who confronted Jinbe hears. The enemy is revealed to be Who's-Who, who has transformed into a saber-toothed tiger. Who's-Who hints that, like Jinbe, he used to work for the World Government.
In the storehouse, Yamato bandages Shinobu's wounds. At this point, Yamato reveals more about his experiences with Ace.
When Ace led his own pirate crew, he invaded Onigashima to rescue abducted children. Ace battled against its guardian, Yamato, where it is revealed that Kaidou was on expedition with his top officers. While Ace's subordinates rescued the children and sent them back to the mainland, Ace continued his battle. He revealed his past to Yamato.
When Ace was a child, his father, Roger, became despised by the people. Ace began questioning whether or not his life inherently had no worth when his father was so rejected. Yamato also revealed his past; since he dreamed of living free like Oden, Kaidou fitted him with handcuffs that would explode if he left the island. Ace encouraged Yamato to do what he desired against Kaidou's wishes. In anger, Yamato destroyed Kaidou's dragon statue. 
Ace and Yamato developed a friendship. As they watched the sunset, Ace told Yamato about the outside world, including his brother who will rise as a powerful pirate. 
Finishing his story, Yamato tells that Ace died two years ago, but his brother, Luffy, inherits his will. Yamato anticipated Luffy's return so he could take Kaidou down. Meanwhile, Tama reveals to Nami that she also knew Ace.

Chopper works on an antidote while Marco helps some of the infected with his flames. Although the Beasts Pirates do not want to attack Marco, Queen threatens them with death if they do not. Still, Marco transforms into his phoenix form and flies Zoro to the rooftop while Robin and Brook run to the castle. Zoro reminds Marco of his memories with Ace.
When Ace was in the Whitebeard Pirates, he begged Whitebeard to let him go to Wano Country to take Kaidou down. When Ace last visited the country, he promised he would make the country free from hunger. However, knowing that Ace would not stand a chance against Kaidou, Whitebeard did not let him go. Ace resolved to get stronger so he could battle Kaidou and fulfill his promises.
Nami reveals to Tama that Ace was Luffy's brother. Tama reflects on when Luffy told her about Ace's death; although Luffy spoke to her very bluntly, she regrets the way she reacted. Moving on, Tama's group decides to carry out a strategy Tama laid out. 
In the storehouse, Momonosuke hears from Yamato that Ace was Luffy's brother and Roger's son. He also hears that Luffy has the infamous initial D in his name.
On the way to the rooftop, the Mink soldiers struggle to defend the stairway from enemy Beasts Pirates. Just then, Luffy appears and defeats them, taking the stairs to the next floor.
Marco is pursued by King and Queen. Queen fires bullets at him from his mouth but the bullets pass through Marco's body. Keeping King and Queen in a chokehold, Marco flings Zoro out of the hole in the ceiling. On the rooftop, Big Mom meets with Kaidou and finds the samurai defeated on the ground. They discuss the New Onigashima Project; although the people are enjoying the Fire Festival in the Flower Capital, Kaidou will move Onigashima there, even if many will die. However, they start to bicker over the Road Poneglyph, where they both agree to negotiate further once the One Piece is acquired. 

As Yamato takes out Oden's journal, he reveals more about his times with Ace. As Ace and Yamato sat around a campfire, they discussed each other's dreams. Ace discussed Luffy's dreams; since his childhood, Luffy had a dream of finding the One Piece in memory of Roger. Using Ace's fingernail, Yamato creates a Vivre Card of him. Ace eventually departed from the island and Yamato kept a Vivre Card of him.
However, during the Summit War, Ace was killed in battle. As he died in Marineford, Yamato's Vivre Card disintegrated before his eyes. Yamato remembered when Ace told him that his brother, Luffy, would rise as a powerful pirate. Yamato resolved to wait for Luffy to come to save the country from Kaidou.
Finishing his story, Yamato entrusts Oden's journal to Momonosuke. He suggests that Luffy was the person mentioned in the prophecy, who would arrive to the country to take down Kaidou.
Kid, Killer, Law and Zoro reach the rooftop to confront Kaidou and Big Mom. Luffy also enters by punching through the ceiling. After tending to Kin'emon's wounded body, Luffy apologizes for being late to the battle. Remembering all the people who made the rebellion possible, Luffy creates a Ryuo-imbued, Gear Third punch, striking down Kaidou. As Kaidou gets up, Luffy declares that he will become the Pirate King.

As Big Mom scoffs at Luffy's declaration, Kaidou is surprised that Luffy was able to injure him, a feat only done by a few of the most powerful pirates. He unleashes his Raimei Hakke move, and Luffy mostly avoids the attack. Big Mom attempts to intervene but Zoro cuts Prometheus in half, though Prometheus survives and is reunited.
Kaidou attempts to strike Luffy off guard but Law saves him. He, Luffy and Kid begin bickering just as Prometheus shoots fireballs at them. Luffy suggests a contest where the last to dodge the fireball would win. Since they were focused on winning this contest, they all ended up being hit by the fireballs. Although they all emerge from the rubble, Zoro and Killer are left to battle Kaidou. They charge at Kaidou and manage to shallowly cut him.
In the banquet hall, Sanji is kept bound by Black Maria but is too charmed by the women to attempt to escape. Eventually, he decides to free himself by burning the webs with Diable Jambe flames, then uses the webs to fight off the ladies. However, he could not find himself to attack Black Maria, and Maria starts interrogating him about his crew's whereabouts, especially Robin.
The three captains declare they will defeat Kaidou. Luffy transforms into his Gear Fourth form, Kid gathers metallic objects and Law creates a Room. They prepare for battle, and Kaidou calls them "monsters."

Luffy transforms into his Gear Fourth form. Kid gathers several metallic objects and uses them to sculpt a skull-faced golem. Law creates a Room and uses it to ride on rocks.
Kaidou prepares a counterattack, but Luffy strikes Kaidou's stomach with Kong Gun, Kid crushes him with his fists using Punk Vise, and Law pummels him with rocks using Tact. Still, they continue to bicker over whose attack was stronger.
Big Mom continues to mock the Worst Generation. Kaidou transforms back into his dragon form and unleashes Kaifu, sending wind slashes flying at the enemies. He declares that he defeated and samurai and will become the sole ruler of Wano Country.
Luffy strikes Kaidou back with Kong Rifle, Kid slams his head into the ground with Slam Gibson, and Law uses Gamma Knife to damage Kaidou's heart. Killer also attempts to use Scyther Sonic to repeatedly slash Kaidou with his Punishers, but Big Mom strikes him down with a lightning bolt.
With Law's help, Zoro attempts to slash Kaidou with the powerful Enma, but is stopped by Big Mom. Zeus unleashes several lightning bolts that strike the Worst Generation. Still, the lightning does not affect Luffy since he is made of rubber. He pummels Kaidou with Kong Gatling Gun.

Luffy pummelling Kaidou astounds the Worst Generation and Big Mom. His final punch sends Kaidou crashing into the ground. Luffy attempts an attack to end Kaidou but he runs out of energy and loses his Gear Fourth form, collapsing. As Zoro helps Luffy recover, Kid and Law take on Big Mom's attacks.
Kaidou regains consciousness and flies into the sky, creating tornadoes that knock Kid and Killer back. Luffy flies out of Zoro's hands and into Kaidou's mouth. So, Zoro uses his Enma and unleashes an attack, cutting Kaidou's rough scales and making him spit Luffy out in pain.
The fierce battle in the rooftop is heard from the live floor. CP0 agents who have entered the party sit away from the conflict, using a Go board to depict the battle status. There are far more black pieces than white, indicating that Kaidou has a strong advantage. They lament that their supplier was killed, but note that this battle was inevitable since Luffy took down Doflamingo. They predict with certainty that the Beasts Pirates will triumph, but nevertheless encourages battle hoping that the pirates will destroy each other.
Big Mom goes to check on the fighting pirates. Although Kaidou is obscured, the Worst Generation hint that he has transformed into a new form, his hybrid form.

Hours before Tama entered Onigashima to rescue Nami and Usopp, she asked Speed to take her to the island so she could assist the raid. Speed agreed immediately to take her, along with a tamed Daifugo and Gazelleman. On the ship, Tama created several kibi dangos to tame the Gifters in Onigashima.
Upon reaching the island, Speed claimed that the dangos she was distributing to the Gifters were medicine created by Queen, apparently granting added strength. After Briscola ate a dango and reported having a surge in energy, the other Gifters ate the kibi dangos, being tamed. 
Back to the present day, after uniting with Nami's group, Gazelleman and Daifugo forcefully feed the Gifters in the corridors. Usopp shoots a dango into Hamlet's mouth, taming him. 
On the live floor, enemy Beasts Pirates attempt to take the antidote from Chopper, but he is guarded by Hyogoro's forces. However, one of the infected fighters lose their stamina. The flames given by Marco die, and he transforms back into an ice oni. He charges at Hyogoro and infects him.
Franky gets the upper hand against Sasaki and throw him into several walls, but the Beasts Pirates restrain him and prevent him from moving. Just then, Nami's group, along with Tama and the tamed Beasts Pirates, enter to aid Franky. Usopp fires kibi dangos at Sasaki's forces, taming the Armoured Division. Franky takes out a sword and slashes Sasaki's abdomen.

Black Maria's women play a game where they roll Sanji to each other. Sanji is knocked out during this game and wakes up to see Black Maria has crucified him with webs. Maria orders Sanji to call for Robin using a surveillance unit.
Bao Huang attempts to locate the Nine Red Scabbards. She determines they are in the Treasure Repository and there is an unknown person in the room helping them.
Carrot and Wanda turn into their Sulong form and confront Perospero, but he covers them with candy, turning them into Candymen. Carrot frees herself and Wanda, using Electro to melt the candy. However, Perospero crushes Wanda with a Candy Maiden.
On the live floor of Skull Dome, Marco battles King as Chopper continues to try to make an antidote for the Ice Onis. Hyogoro, who was infected, decides to fight as much as he can. He transforms into a younger version of himself. 
Before she goes to pursue the wounded samurai, Black Maria carries out her plan. She tortures Sanji into calling for Robin's help by punching him with brass knuckles. Sanji calls out for help at the top of his lungs, and the Marys announce the message throughout the live floor. Black Maria prepares to deliver one final blow to finish Sanji, but Robin sprouts a giant arm, striking Black Maria. 

Robin strikes down Black Maria and Brook frees Sanji by freezing and shattering the webs. As Robin faces Black Maria, Sanji escapes. He goes down a random path, hoping to meet with some of the allies. 
Bao Huang announces Yamato's location to the live floor. Yamato locates and strikes down the mouse. Yamato explains that it is a cyborg, known as a Mary, that serves as Kaidou's surveillance unit by broadcasting their findings to human Marys. Now that Yamato's location has been revealed, enemy Beasts Pirates approach the storehouse. With Momonosuke hiding in his robe, Yamato battles the pirates to escape.
Carrot becomes furious after Wanda was defeated by Perospero. She charges Perospero, melting his candy and breaking through his armour. However, as clouds block the moon, she loses her Sulong form. This allows Perospero to defeat her as well. After taunting Pedro and Carrot, he leaves to join the others in battle.
On the roof, Kaidou reveals his hybrid form to the Worst Generation. One minute remains before Luffy can use Haki again, so he sleeps to get rest. Killer attempts to cut Kaidou, but Kaidou's body is now too hard for him to cut. Killer is struck away by Kaidou's club.
As Black Maria was unavailable, Jack, having been bandaged, decides to go to the treasure repository to kill the samurai. Bao Huang reports that somehow, the Nine Red Scabbards' injuries have been bandaged. Now that Jack is taking care of the samurai, Black Maria now focuses on battling Robin. She removes her robe to reveal a tattoo reading ("Girl Trouble").

On the live floor of Skull Dome, Chopper works on the antidote but starts to run out of stamina. Still, he pushes through, using the last of his strength. Hyogoro also decides to use the last of his strength, battling the enemy Beasts Pirates. However, he instructs his men to kill him once the transformation is complete. As he takes on the Mimawarigumi, he regrets not battling against Kaidou while in his prime. However, he is pleased that the alliance now has a powerful asset, Luffy. 
On the rooftop, Kaidou sends more slashes at his enemies in his hybrid form and Big Mom makes Zeus unleash more lightning bolts. Luffy, having rested enough, is able to use Haki again and is ready to reenter the battle. 
Marco battles both King and Queen in his phoenix form. He bests both of them, sending King flying into a house and Queen into a wall. Although both survive and emerge from the rubble, this buys Chopper some extra time. However, Perospero, who enters from the stairs, spots him exhausted. 
Chopper manages to develop a cure for the virus. Before he administers the antidote to other people, he decides to test it on himself to guarantee its safety. The antidote creates a high fever meant to combat the virus. 
Hyogoro defeats both the Orochi Oniwabanshu and the Mimawarigumi, but he begins to transform into an Ice Oni. He orders his men to kill him so he would not endanger his allies. Leaving the battle to his subordinates, he states that he has no regrets. 

Marco struggles against King and Queen, who attack him from two angles. He is sent crashing into a wall. Meanwhile, Yatappe and Tsunagoro hesitate to kill Hyogoro and Omasa, reluctant to kill their comrades.
The Waiters and Pleasures beg Queen to save them. Queen berates them, calling them useless to the crew since they have no special abilities. He tells them that they should simply succumb to the virus. He also tries to turn the pirates against Chopper, claiming that he cured himself and escaped.
After taking the antidote, Chopper is cured, and the ice crumbles off his skin. Delighted, he prepares to administer the cure to the people. Just before Yatappe could behead Hyogoro, Chopper kicks the sword away. He sprays the antidote sample into Hyogoro's mouth, curing him as well. 
Then, Miyagi and Tristan load and fire a cannon. The cannonball, named the "Chopperphage," releases a pink mist into the live floor, curing all those who inhale it. Chopper confronts a furious Queen for his abhorrent use of a virus in war. Queen fires bullets at Chopper but the Pleasures rush to his aid. Since Chopper saved them, the Pleasures decide to join his side, fighting Queen. Chopper transforms into his Monster Point form and strikes Queen.
On the rooftop, Luffy rejoins the battle against Kaidou. Meanwhile, in the treasure repository, the Nine Red Scabbards wake up to find their wounds bandaged. They open the door to find, to their surpise, Oden greeting them.  

Yamato and Shinobu defend Momonosuke from enemy Beasts Pirates, but Momonosuke becomes frustrated by his inability to fend for himself. He accidentally transforms into a pink dragon, shocking Yamato. Momonosuke explains that when he was in Punk Hazard, he broke into a restricted area and ate a fruit, not knowing it was Vegapunk's SMILE fruit. Yamato comments that his ability is very similar to Kaidou's. 
A CP0 agent explains how this fruit was made. The Punk Hazard scientists, led by Vegapunk, created the fruit by extracting Kaidou's Lineage Factor. However, the experiment was deemed a failure and the fruit was left abandoned in the laboratory following its closure.
While in the hallways, Momonosuke somehow reveals that Luffy is losing the battle. On the rooftop, Luffy and the Worst Generation is failing to land a single hit on Kaidou in his hybrid form. 
In the treasure repository, the Nine Red Scabbards are happy to see Oden, assuming that he must have escaped the boiling pot and survived. However, Ashura becomes suspicious and slices Oden's face, but he does not bleed. Furthermore, Oden stabs Ashura with his sword, confirming he is an impostor. It is revealed he is a drawing made by Kanjuro. Kanjuro states that he was fatally wounded by Kiku and would not survive the battle, but he plans to kill Momonosuke in his final moments. 

The Nine Red Scabbards and Izou fight off the Kanjuro-controlled Oden, but Oden reveals and lights an explosive vest. To save the others, Ashura tackles Oden, crashing through a window before the vest detonates, killing them both. The Nine Red Scabbards begin to grieve his death.
Kanjuro runs through the halls, still looking for Momonosuke, and states that he intends to kill the young lord then die himself, finally ending his life-long play. Meanwhile, in another room, a vengeful Orochi knocks over a barrel of oil and sets it aflame, setting the castle on fire. Although Beasts Pirates attempt to put the fires out, Orochi cuts them down, planning to burn down Onigashima as revenge against Kaidou.
The remaining Scabbards run through the hallways but quickly run into Jack, surrounded by fallen Mink warriors. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi break away from the group to battle Jack while the others advance to rescue Momonosuke.
Meanwhile, Queen gets up to battle Chopper, but Marco rushes to his aid. They battle Queen together.
On the rooftop Kaidou and Big Mom decide to use a joint attack to try and wipe them out. Law could not transport them downstairs because of their Haki, and they launch Hakai, unleashing an extremely powerful shockwave. The Worst Generation members are unable to dodge the attack, but Zoro blocks the attack, protecting the others from the attack but leaving himself gravely injured. Luffy attempts to retaliate but Kaidou evades the attack, preparing to attack him further.

Orochi and Fukurokuju continue to set fire to the castle, as they prepare to go to the explosive storage. The remaining Nine Red Scabbards run through the hallways, worried about the fire, when they run into Orochi. Fukurokuju offers to battle them, but Orochi insists on battling them himself, transforming into his Yamato no Orochi form. Despite this, the Nine Red Scabbards cut off Orochi's heads, and Kin'emon cutting off his main head. Orochi collapses.
Meanwhile, the Four Emperors continue to battle the Worst Generation on the rooftop, with Kaidou battling Luffy and Big Mom battling the others. Still, Luffy struggles to hurt Kaidou and Big Mom wreaks havoc on the Worst Generation.
The Worst Generation tries a strategy to take Big Mom down by immobilizing her homies. Law traps Zeus into a metal box created by Kid, Zoro slices Prometheus into several pieces, and Killer distracts Napoleon by attacking him. With all her homies unable to aid her, Law and Zoro push Big Mom over the edge of the island, and she starts falling into the sea.

Big Mom falls into the ocean below and starts to drown, but her homies are unable to go rescue her. Kaidou aids them, and Prometheus and Napoleon escape Zoro and Killer. While Zeus is still trapped in the box, Prometheus and Napoleon dive into the sea, rescue Big Mom and carry her back to Onigashima.
On the way, Big Mom thanks Prometheus and Napoleon for rescuing her, but gets angry at Zeus for not coming to her aid. Prometheus, no longer wanting to share his power with Zeus, suggests that Big Mom abandons him and creates a new homie to be his girlfriend. She agrees. While they rise to the island, the Heart Pirates watch her from the Polar Tang, angry that she survived. 
Kaidou prepares to finish off an unconscious Luffy, but Zoro uses the last of his strength to take him down. He uses a Nine Sword Style attack combined with Haoshoku Haki, slashing Kaidou's chest open and reopening his scar. Kaidou retaliates, defeating both Zoro and Law with Raimei: Hakke. However, Luffy gets up, swearing to defeat Kaidou.

Luffy's declaration angers Kaidou. At the same time, Big Mom takes out a fragment of her soul and gives it to the thundercloud above, creating a new homie to replace Zeus. As her first technique, this new homie fires a powerful lightning bolt at Kid and Killer, hitting them at near point-blank range and shaking the entire island.
Meanwhile, Nami, Tama, and Usopp attempt to return to the Live Floor on Komachiyo while Page One chases them. Page One transforms into his hybrid form and leaps onto Komachiyo's back, but Komachiyo begins to speed up, running into a wall at full speed and ramming Page One into it.
Kid and Killer emerge from the rubble somewhere inside the castle. Big Mom is on the floor directly below them, still in pursuit of Kid. Suddenly, they are attacked by Hawkins, and Kid becomes enraged that Hawkins abandoned Kid in favour of Kaidou. Kid decides to advance while Killer battles Hawkins. Hawkins uses Goma no So, transforming into a scarecrow-like figure.
Back on the roof, Luffy notices that Kaidou had the rare power of Haoshoku Haki. He also remembers Hyogoro's lessons on Internal Destruction Busoshoku Haki, where one directs their Haki into the target, damaging the target internally. With this, Luffy strikes Kaidou's stomach without touching him, then unleashes a powerful uppercut knocking Kaidou over. With this, Luffy tells Law and Zoro to head downstairs while he battles Kaidou on his own.

The Straw Hat Pirates sail on the sea, listening to New Genesis on a Tone Dial, though Jinbe doesn't recognize. Usopp tells him that it's famous around the world, and Brook adds that it "makes your heart beat wildly" with its melody. Meanwhile, Uta stands on a cliff, staring out into the ocean and thinking about her childhood.
12 years ago, Luffy walks through Foosha Village, practicing his punches. He pushes Woop Slap back, knocking over a fruit stand, and the mayor tells him to go help out the other villagers instead of wasting time, but Luffy refuses. The shopkeeper gives Luffy a bag of fruits, and Luffy leaves, heading off into the mountain. There, he runs into a monkey who attempts to take the fruit. Luffy offers the fruit if the monkey can beat him in a fight, and they begin to spar. In the end, Luffy wins the fight, and the monkey walks off in shame, but Luffy offers him half the fruit, and they eat together.
Later, Luffy is chased by a boar, and ends up falling off a cliff into the ocean. However, he is pulled out of the water by Garp, who lectures him about sinking in the ocean, stating that he can't become a Marine if he can't swim. Meanwhile, out at sea, the Red Hair Pirates are sailing with a young Uta on board. Shanks gives her jewelry from a treasure chest, and she puts it on, preparing to sing a song for the assembled crew. However, she notices that Shanks isn't watching, and goes to see what he's looking at. She finds him looking inside a chest containing a fruit, but he refuses to give it to her despite her being his daughter. She admonishes him for a being a cheapskate, but he denies it, and points to the Goa Kingdom, where the crew will be staying for a while.
Back on the island, Luffy talks to himself about not becoming a Navy soldier, and states that he's going to leave the island and do something big. He sees the Red Hair Pirates approaching the shore, wondering who they are, and he runs to the dock to meet them. Luffy tells them to leave the island, but Uta challenges him to force them out, proclaiming herself Shanks' daughter. However, Shanks tells her to leave Luffy alone, stating that they're not here to fight.
Some time later, the Red Hair Pirates sit in Partys Bar, and Luffy declares that he wants to be a pirate, though Shanks admonishes him. Luffy asks to tryout for the crew again, and plays a shell game with Shanks, but Shanks cheats and Luffy isn't allowed on the crew. Luffy tries to reverse the trick on Shanks, hiding the coin in his mouth the same way, and swallows it when he's confronted. Suddenly, Uta enters the bar, telling Luffy not to get too close to Shanks in a tacky outfit. She reveals that she's a diva, and the musician of the Red Hair Pirates.
The crew clear out the bar, leaving only a single table with a spotlight in the middle, and Uta begins singing Where the Wind Blows. The song impresses Luffy, who states that he can sing too, and he begins singing the Moron Song. However, his singing annoys Uta, and she runs out of the bar screaming. She says that he's off pitch, and his singing will make the crew's IQ drop, though he disagrees. When Uta cries to Shanks, he tells them to be friends since they're the same age, though Uta disagrees since she's 9 and Luffy is 7. Shanks asks Luffy to show Uta around Foosha Village, and the kids head into the mountains.
Luffy challenges Uta to climb a cliff, and after a short back and forth, they begin racing up it. They reach the top at the same time, and Luffy says that he's impressed with her climbing abilities, but Uta says that there's nothing Luffy could beat her at. He gets angry, and they begin competing. They have a height contest, a cuteness contest, and an arm wrestling contest, all of which Uta wins. They then have a screaming competition, which Uta wins by projecting her voice. Luffy challenges Uta to another competition, but she says that he's just a kid, who hasn't realized that the most fun place in the world is inside yourself.
Later, the two head back to an abandoned windmill, arguing about Shanks' merits and demerits. They climb to the top and look out over the town, though Uta says she's seen more beautiful scenes out at sea.
Back in the present day, Uta states she's going to make her dream come true, and continues to look out over the ocean.

Uta sits in Partys Bar, complaining to her father about Luffy's training methods, while Makino thanks her for playing with him. However, Uta replies that she's just protecting Shanks by stopping Luffy from annoying him. At that moment, Luffy enters the bar, asking Shanks to let him join his crew, though Shanks swiftly declines, and Luffy starts to throw a tantrum. Uta then forces Luffy out of the bar, stating that they were supposed to train at sea. Once they leave, Shanks tells Makino that he's planning Foosha Village soon, though he'll be back.
Out at sea, the two kids paddle in barrels, racing to a rock. However, when they arrive, they realize that it's actually the Lord of the Coast, and begin paddling away as fast as they can. Back on land, Luffy tells Uta that he's their local sea monster, and Uta tells him that Shanks would easily defeat it. They begin talking about becoming pirates, and Uta asks Luffy what his goal is once he's become one. She reveals that she dreams of travelling around the world with Shanks, and bringing joy with her singing. Luffy then reveals that his goal is to travel the world, meeting a variety of people and trying a variety of food.
Later, as the Red Hair Pirates prepare to leave the island, Shanks brings Luffy off the ship. Uta had found him hiding on the ship, stating that if Shanks said no, then he's not allowed on board. As the crew leaves, Luffy swears to be on board next time.
Eventually, the Red Hair Pirates return. As Luffy goes to greet them, everyone refuses to acknowledge him, and he decides to go ask Uta what's going on. However, he soon runs into Shanks, who tells him that Uta left the ship to become a singer, to Luffy's shock. He refuses to believe it, stating that Uta would never leave Shanks and that something must have happened. However, Shanks doesn't respond, and Luffy runs off, crying.
Some time later, news of Elegia's destruction spread across the world, with a reported 100% mortality rate and Shanks being held responsible. As the news travels, Garp and Sengoku state that the destruction was connected to Tot Musica, and that Shanks revealed his true nature. They end their discussion by saying that Roger would be disappointed in him.
Back in Foosha Village, Beckman asks Luffy to forgive Shanks, telling him that there are some things that people just can't talk about. However, Luffy just runs out the mountain, thinking about his time with Uta. Suddenly, he's attacked by mountain bandits, and they continuously beat him until sundown. He's eventually saved by Beckman, who brings him back to the village. The next day, Luffy enters Partys Bar and asks to join Shanks' crew, but is swiftly rejected. He sits with the Red Hair Pirates, telling Shanks that he won't ask what happened because it's his and Uta's business. Meanwhile, in Mary Geoise, the Five Elders discuss Shanks.
Back in the present day, Usopp tells Luffy that Uta is putting on a live performance, and Nami adds that it's her first one. Luffy decides to go, and the crew head for Elegia.
On the island, Uta prepares for the concert, stating that a new genesis is going to begin.

When Hera hit Kid and Killer with Fulgora, Kid's imprisonment of Zeus collapsed, finally freeing him. On Luffy's instruction, Law teleports himself, Zoro and Zeus to a lower level.
Meanwhile, Momonosuke's group hides in the castle ceiling. They get in touch with Kin'emon, informing him that Momonosuke is safe, giving him their location so they can reunite. Yamato gathers some sewing supplies for their next move.
Elsewhere, Usopp, Nami, and Tama are still being chased by Page One, who rides on Komachiyo's back. Usopp manages to use his Pop Greens to knock Page One off Komachiyo's back, but he still fiercely pursues them. However, Big Mom appears, and is initially hostile to Nami and Usopp. However, due to her soft spot for children under the age of ten, she enters "Mother Mode" when she sees Tama.
She remembers that when she lost her memory, the people of Okobore Town took care of her, fed her and fixed her hair. However, Tama told her devastating news. Since food was stolen from Bakura Town, Kaidou's subordinates, led by Holed'em, set fire to the town. Several people were harmed in the fire, including Tsuru.
Page One continues to pursue Tama's group, and Tama reminds Big Mom that he is one of Kaidou's subordinates. Angry over Okobore Town's destruction, Big Mom strikes Page One with a Haki-imbued punch to the neck. He collapses on the ground in front of Ulti, defeated.

The grouped Scabbards head to Momonosuke to protect him from Kanjuro. Kiku states that the pain from her arm was far less than the pain of losing her brother Izou. The Scabbards decide to split up to assist various areas of the battlefield, but Kiku remains with Kin'emon to pursue Kanjuro.
Nekomamushi is finally informed about Pedro's sacrifice and death, now knowing that his killer, Perospero, is present on Onigashima. To avenge Pedro, Nekomamushi goes to assist Wanda and Carrot in battling Perospero.
Yamato, decides to run off with a decoy of Momonosuke, diverting the Marys' attention from the real Momonosuke. In the crawl space, Momonosuke hears Luffy's voice and senses that Luffy is battling Kaidou one-on-one. On the rooftop, they are battling fiercely but neither person could hit the other.
On the castle's second floor, Sanji carries a heavily-bandaged Zoro on his back, fighting off swarms of Gifters and Pleasures while the latter heals from his injuries. On the live floor, Chopper battles Queen, but Perospero intervenes by firing candy arrows at Chopper. This angers Queen.
Meanwhile, Ulti decides to avenge her defeated brother by attacking Big Mom. She brutally beats Komachiyo down to the ground, and when Tama attempts to stop her, Ulti strikes her in the face. Angry that Ulti assaulted a young girl, Nami and Big Mom both decide to turn on her and fight her directly. Nami attacks Ulti with her Clima-Tact, striking her with lightning.

Sanji carries and protects Zoro as he heals, angry that he had to carry someone with a lower bounty than him. He remembers how this happened. Previously, Law teleported Zoro and the others downstairs and ran into Sanji on the way. Law instructed Sanji to take care of Zoro while his group ran off to another area. Sanji begrudgingly took Zoro to another room and bandaged his wounds.
Back in the present, Sanji continues to carry Zoro down the halls when he encounters Kawamatsu and Izou. On Zoro's advice, they go to the live floor. 
Back in the castle, Ulti gets back up and attacks Nami, grabbing her arm. However, Big Mom's homies, Prometheus, Napoleon and Hera combine into a single weapon. They use Maser Ho, unleashing a powerful beam striking Ulti's abdomen. Ulti collapses. Zeus watches from the corner, eager to rejoin his master, but Big Mom approaches him and states that he is no longer needed in her crew.
On the rooftop, Luffy and Kaidou continue to fight. They clash, destroying the floor under them, and Luffy is nearly thrown off the island. Luckily, he uses a Gear Third technique he restabilizes himself on the island. Luffy declares he will restore the Kozuki Family and become the Pirate King. However, Kaidou eventually triumphs, knocking Luffy unconscious and throwing him off the island.

Kaidou watches as Luffy falls into the ocean, remarking that though Luffy coated himself in Haoshoku Haki, he was still sloppy and unable to wield it perfectly. He declares that Luffy would never become Joy Boy.
Inside the palace, Big Mom rejects Zeus, no longer wanting him in her crew. She instructs Hera to eat Zeus so she can gain more power from his soul. Knowing that Big Mom is trying to take his life, Zeus attempts to reconcile with Nami, but Nami refuses to forgive her. So, Zeus rebels for one final time against his mother. Big Mom removes his soul before feeding his lifeless body to Hera.
Hera receives a surge in energy from eating Zeus, and Nami's group decides to leave. As Tama also fled with them, Big Mom loses her compassion for her. Big Mom attacks Tama, but Kid appears and confronts her.
Meanwhile, on the Live Floor, Queen and Perospero battle against and Chopper and the defected Beasts Pirates. Chopper gets the upper hand by slamming Queen's body into the floor and throwing him into a wall, but Queen is unharmed while Chopper is left exhausted.
On the third floor, Yamato continues to run through the halls with his fake Momonosuke, defeating a group of Gifters who fall for his decoy. The real Momonosuke is waiting in the crawl space for backup. While he is in hiding, he reads the Oden's, which tells of his adventures as a pirate. However, Momonosuke suddenly detects another mysterious voice. Unbeknownst to him, he is watched by another Mary. Having located him, Bao Huang reports Momonosuke's location to Kaidou, who decides to personally pursue him. 

As Momonosuke continues to react to the mysterious voice, Shinobu begins to panic, allowing Kin'emon and Kikunojo to find them. Meanwhile, on the Live Floor, Chopper continues to protect everyone from Perospero's arrows. As he does so, he thinks back to a conversation he had with Caesar Clown, where the scientist offered to improve Chopper's Rumble Ball. However, the improvement comes with a side effect, which Chopper agrees to.
Back in the present, Chopper charges at Queen, but is forced to dodge a light beam, allowing Queen to regroup on the ground. He fends off an arrow wave from Perospero and is attacked again by Queen, but is able to force him off. However, as he attempts to dodge, he's grabbed by Queen again, forcing himself out and continuing to struggle.
Suddenly, Bao Huang announces the end of the duel between Luffy and Kaidou, declaring Kaidou as the winner. Across the island, various allies and enemies react to the news, and Bao Huang announces that Kaidou will re-enter the castle and begin cleaning up the remaining pirates and samurais. She offers the attackers the option to surrender and join the Beasts Pirates, though nobody accepts.
Meanwhile, Kanjuro arrives to Momonosuke's hiding spot, and creates a new Oden disguise. As he enters the hiding spot, both Momonosuke and Shinobu fall for his disguise, but Kin'emon and Kikunojo realize he is really Kanjuro, holding the other two back. Kikunojo prepares to fight, cursing him for killing Ashura Doji, but she is stopped by her memories of Oden. Kanjuro takes advantage of her delay and stabs her, with Kikunojo falling to the ground.
With Kikunojo out of the fight, Kin'emon and Kanjuro prepare to duel. Kanjuro creates a stage for the fight, and Kin'emon angrily charges at him, forcing the actor back. The two think back on their time together, and Kanjuro declares that he needs to lose Kin'emon, his best friend on the stage, before falling to the ground, defeated.
With the fight over, Kin'emon returns to Momonosuke and Shinobu, but Kaidou suddenly appears before them, smashing through the ceiling. Kin'emon prepares to fight the Emperor as Shinobu and Momonosuke escape, and he is crushed by Kaidou's kanabo while Momonosuke watches.

As Luffy sinks into the ocean, Chopper continues to battle Queen, but is demotivated from his captain's defeat. Across Onigashima, various samurai and allies react to Bao Huang's announcement, with some reacting like Chopper and some refusing to believe it. Meanwhile, Onigashima approaches Wano Country proper, finally reaching the mainland.
As the samurai begin to give up in their fight, the Nine Red Scabbards continue to fight, stating they won't stop until they defeat Kaidou. Izou points out how they can't confirm Luffy's death, and Kawamatsu remarks that even the possibility destroyed morale. However, Sanji refuses to even consider that Luffy lost, getting angry at the samurai for thinking that they might have lost.
Back on the Live Floor, Queen has gotten the upper hand against Chopper, and Perospero continues to bombard the samurai with arrows. They encourage everybody to give up fighting, and Queen is about to bite Chopper; however, he's stopped by Sanji. Sanji's kick is hard enough to send Queen's head spinning, causing him to intercept all of Perospero's arrows as well as send Perospero himself flying. He congratulates Chopper for holding off Queen enough for him to arrive, and tells him to continue trusting in Luffy, before handing him Zoro and telling to take care of the injured swordsman. Sanji resolves to fight Queen, and the samurai look on in awe, noting how he doesn't give up despite his captain having been defeated.
Meanwhile, above the first floor, Kaidou easily defeats Kin'emon. Despite his injuries, Kin'emon continues to stand up and stab Kaidou, allowing Shinobu and Momonosuke time to run. As he struggles, Kin'emon thinks back to when they were sent to the present day. He thinks back to when he and Momonosuke pretended to be father and son, and encourages him to continue living. However, he is stabbed again by Kaidou, collapsing to the floor.
As Shinobu and Momonosuke run, he also thinks back to his time with Kin'emon. He resolves himself to tell the Ninja-Pirate-Mink-Samurai Alliance members that Luffy isn't dead, and speaks into one of the Marys, announcing it across the island. He declares that Luffy is speaking to him, and encourages the allies to continue fighting until Luffy returns to the island.

As Luffy sinks into the sea, Momonosuke uses a Mary to inform everybody located on Onigashima of his survival, and to declare that Luffy will defeat Kaidou. The people located on the Live Floor begin to cheer, and are reinvigorated in their fights. However, Momonosuke and Shinobu are still being followed by Kaidou, and are forced to flee, being thrown outside the Skull Dome. However, before Kaidou can crush them, Shinobu is able to destroy the floor using her abilities, and the pair fall into the ocean.
Bao Huang and a horse Gifter decide to announce their fall, hoping to demoralize the remaining samurai. Meanwhile, Nami, Usopp, and Tama continue heading towards the Live Floor, hoping to allow Tama to take control of all the SMILE users who have eaten her dango. As they talk, Nami's Clima-Tact responds, shocking the trio. Elsewhere, Kid prepares to battle Big Mom, when Law suddenly arrives. He offers to form a temporary alliance with Kid to defeat Big Mom.
Meanwhile, in the Flower Capital, the residents of Wano celebrate the Fire Festival. Tenguyama Hitetsu and Toko walk through the town together, and he explains the festival to her. Toko wonders if her father is watching them, and Hitetsu responds that he's sure he is.
Back in Onigashima, the CP0 present assess the ongoing battle. They notice how nobody surrendered even after Luffy's supposed defeat, and count 5,000 soldiers who can no longer fight. With the Pleasures and Gifters present on the Live Floor switching sides, the Beasts Pirates now have 20,000 combatants, and the Ninja-Pirate-Mink-Samurai Alliance have 7,000.
Back with Nami, Usopp, and Tama, the group is trying to identify why Nami's Clima-Tact can suddenly speak. Usopp wonders if might secretly be a genius, but the Clima-Tact responds that it's actually Zeus. He reveals that when Nami tried to feed him Black Balls, he was pressed into her Clima-Tact. Nami tries to shake him out of the Baton, but he points out that he can't leave without Big Mom's power, so she gives up and continues running.
The trio finally arrive at the Live Floor, exiting a door directly behind Bao Huang. As she's about to announce Momonosuke's fall from Onigashima, she is alerted to their presence, which distracts Usopp and allows Ulti to attack him from behind. She grabs Tama, angry that she's been able to make Beasts Pirates members switch sides, and prepares to attack her; however, she's attacked by Nami and Zeus, who can now extend and transform the Clima-Tact. Usopp is able to attack Ulti from behind, separating her and Tama, which allows Nami to prepare a lightning strike without fear of hurting Tama.
Meanwhile, the Heart Pirates hear a voice underwater, finding Luffy sinking. They travel to save him, wondering how they can even hear his voice. At the same time, Yamato reaches the roof, seeing Kaidou at the edge of the island and announcing that he's cutting ties.

The Heart Pirates find a sinking Luffy, positioning their submarine underneath him and pushing him to the surface. They begin trying to treat him, forcing the water he's swallowed out of his stomach. Meanwhile, Shinobu and Momonosuke fall from Onigashima. Shinobu uses a kite, and the pair glide to the Wano mainland. However, when they land, Momonosuke bursts into tears, worried over the Kin'emon and Kiku.
Back on Onigashima, Ulti is terrorizing Tama when she's suddenly attacked by Nami. Zeus offers to send a lightning blast, but Nami argues that it would hurt Tama; however, Usopp is able to separate her, and Nami attacks Ulti with a lightning blast. She tries to dodge the strike, but Zeus redirects himself to hit her, knocking the Tobiroppo unconscious. Panicking, Bao Huang accidentally announces Ulti's and Page One's defeats over the Marys system, causing panic across the Gifters and Pleasures.
Taking advantage of her panicking, Usopp incapacitates Bao Huang, informing Tama that she works as a transmitter. As the allies across the island are overwhelmed with numbers, Tama speaks into the transmitter, converting the Gifters tamed by her power into allies.
Elsewhere, Yamato informs Kaidou of his decision to cut their familiar ties. Kaidou tries to persuade him otherwise, stating that he defeated both Luffy and Momonosuke, but Yamato refuses to change his mind. Yamato declares his intention to set out to sea, stating that he will force Kaidou to leave Wano; however, Kaidou refuses to be a pirate elsewhere, stating he must stay in Wano. The two clash, with Yamato intending on forcing Kaidou to remain on the rooftop until Luffy returns.

Across Onigashima, the Gifters who have eaten Tama's dango begin to switch sides, attacking former allies. A Mary reports the mass-betrayal to CP0 as the combat devolves even further into chaos. The Beasts Pirates react in angry confusion, while the Alliance members welcome the change.
Nami, Tama, and Usopp celebrate their success, drawing attention from Queen; however, as he tries to shoot them, he is attacked by Sanji, instead shooting the inside of his mouth. He welcomes the son of Judge, angering Sanji, and reveals that he is a former member of the science group MADS. As he prepares to fight, Queen reveals he is a cyborg and enters his Human-Beast Form. The surrounding Beasts Pirates panic at his transformation, but Sanji ignores him, confirming with Chopper that Zoro will recover.
As he turns to ask, however, he notices that Chopper has entered a new transformation, the Babyjiji, as a result of his Rumble Ball transformation. However, as they talk, Sanji is attacked by Queen, and he prepares to face off. Chopper begins explaining his new form to Tristan, and Sanji begins fighting Queen.
His explanation complete, Chopper turns to helping Zoro. Miyagi informs him about a powerful instant recovery drug from Zou; however, should he take it, his pain will be doubled when the drug wears off. Chopper decides not to give Zoro the drug, but Zoro insists on receiving it, stating that he wants to return to the fight. Elsewhere, the CP0 agents calculate the traitorous Gifters, estimating 300 people switched sides.
Meanwhile, Nami, Tama, and Usopp try to find a safe space to hide, having completed their mission. As they run through the halls, they are attacked by a group of Gifters; however, they're suddenly saved by Daifugo and joined by Speed and Gazelleman, who offer lifts to the group. Gazelleman also informs them that he found Komachiyo unconscious.
Elsewhere, Jinbe and Who's-Who begin to fight. Among his attacks, Who's-Who incorporates Soru, Rankyaku, and Tekkai, prompting Jinbe to remark that he's using a World Government fighting style. He brings up a story about a CP9 agent escaping from prison, and Who's-Who confirms that he's the agent. As the two continue fighting, Who's-Who begins explaining his past as a Government agent, though Jinbe has trouble understanding how the story is relevant to him. However, Who's-Who explains that 13 years ago, he was tasked with protecting a Devil Fruit; the fruit was stolen, and later eaten by Monkey D. Luffy.

Speed carries Tama, Nami, and Usopp through Onigashima, with Gazelleman and Daifugo following close behind. The headliners defend the trio, and promise to recover Komachiyo. Tama thanks them and declares themselves friends, prompting Zeus to ask Nami if he can become her attendant again; however, she declines, and he begins asking for increasingly low positions, none of which she accepts. He apologizes for his actions, and Nami accepts, asking him to be her partner.
Elsewhere, the present CP0 agents speculate that 2,000 soldiers switched sides due to Tama's abilities, which, after discounting 2,000 Beasts Pirates due to injury, leaves the field at 16,000 vs. 9,000. However, they remark that it has no effect on them, noting that they only need to confirm Who's-Who's death as punishment for leaving CP9.
Meanwhile, Jinbe and Who's-Who continue their discussion. Jinbe asks why Who's-Who left the World Government and became a pirate, but Who's-Who just responds that Jinbe functionally did the same thing. However, he insulted Luffy at the same time, annoying Jinbe. The two argue over their opinions of Luffy, with Who's-Who saying that he was disappointed by his fight with Kaidou and Jinbe stating that Luffy will return.
In the ocean, the Heart Pirates continue trying to resuscitate Luffy. Who's-Who states that he will simply kill Luffy, and Jinbe promises to defeat Who's-Who instead. He thinks back to his past with Luffy, swearing to fight as the helmsman of the Straw Hat Pirates. Who's-Who begins repeatedly attacking Jinbe, but the Fish-Man just dodges his attacks. Who's-Who attempts to reinitiate small talk with Jinbe, but he declines, and Who's-Who offers to instead talk after chewing up Jinbe's limbs. He charges at Jinbe, but Jinbe catches and throws him, crashing him into the ground.
Who's-Who once again initiates conversation, asking Jinbe to listen while he tells him a story. He tells Jinbe that while he was imprisoned, he was mockingly told to pray for salvation from the "Sun God" Nika, a legendary warrior of ancient times who would supposedly free slaves. While Who's-Who wasn't convinced of Nika's existence, he was desperate enough to continue believing in him, praying for any help in his imprisonment. Jinbe asks how this information is relevant to him, and Who's-Who brings up the past slavery of Sun Pirates members and Fish-Men as a whole, asking Jinbe for more information about Nika. He informs Jinbe that the guard who told him about Nika was eventually executed, and asks if it's dangerous to even know of his existence.
He begins once again bombarding Jinbe with attacks, asking if he knows a lot about slavery due to being a Fish-Man. However, Jinbe just catches Who's-Who's arms, stating that he has nothing to tell him. He breaks Who's-Who's fingers and steps on his tail, destroying Who's-Who and the arena behind him with a single punch. Who's-Who flies backwards into the wall, collapsing on top of him, and Jinbe tells him that if he wants to investigate history then he needs to be prepared for what he'll find.

Kaidou and Yamato clash on the Onigashima rooftop, as Yamato attempts to cut ties with his father. However, Kaidou refuses to accept it, instead trying to convince Yamato to become the Shogun of Wano under Kaidou. Yamato states that he will continue to believe in Luffy, and that he will stall Kaidou until he returns. He transforms into his Human-Beast Form, vowing to protect Wano.
On the Live Floor, Queen continues to attack Sanji, bragging about his powers as a cyborg. However, Sanji argues that he can only use what he's given, angering Queen. He begins shooting beams at Sanji, forcing him to continue dodging. Sanji remarks that Franky would like Queen's laser technology, only further annoying Queen. As Sanji continues to dodge the lasers, Zoro convinces Chopper and Miyagi to give him the miracle drug.
Elsewhere, Gifters under Tama's influence begin assisting Franky, driving off the Beasts Pirates who were surrounding him. Sasaki informs the Gifters that they're committing treason and charges at Franky, but he's able to catch him and throw him upwards into the ceiling. The two realize that they're both very durable, with Sasaki transforming into his Human-Beast Form.
Back on the roof, Kaidou continues trying to convince Yamato to stay by his side. He remarks that he didn't intend for Yamato to eat his fruit, and Yamato responds that he's also mad since he can no longer swim.
Back in the Right Brain Tower, Sasaki and Franky both draw their swords. Franky instructs the surrounding Gifters to go help others, but Sasaki suddenly begins spinning his propeller frills, confusing Franky. Sasaki begins to fly, charging forward and sending the Gifters flying. Franky is forced on the defensive, preparing the General Shield in anticipation of Sasaki's next charge. However, Sasaki accidentally spins his frills the wrong direction, throwing himself backwards instead. He follows up with a charge forward, successfully blowing one of the thrusters on the General Franky's shoulder. However, Franky managed to grab Sasaki, suplexing him into the ground.
In the ocean, the Heart Pirates continue trying to wake up Luffy. He finally regains consciousness, and begins demanding meat.

Yamato and Kaidou continue to duel on the rooftop, with Yamato officially refusing Kaidou's offer to become Shogun. Meanwhile, Franky points out Sasaki's stomach cut despite his toughness, attempting to slash his stomach again. However, Sasaki avoids it, and the two begin a swordfight. Franky is eventually forced to run, launching a General Cannon at Sasaki. Sasaki avoids the attack, charging at Franky, but in the process makes himself vulnerable for a Franky Radical Beam to the stomach.
Back on the rooftop, Kaidou laments Yamato having eaten the Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Okuchi no Makami, and asks once again for Yamato to become Shogun under him. Yamato refuses once again, and begins shooting ice at Kaidou, though the latter counters the ice shots with a blast of fire.
Inside Onigashima, Brook and Robin walk through fog, with Nico Olvia suddenly appearing before them. Saul and Clover quickly follow suit, gesturing towards Robin. She reminisces her time with the three of them, remembering their deaths. However, she realizes soon enough that those are simply mere illusions, knocking away Nure-Onna, Kunyun, and Tenjo-Sagari, who were embodying these illusions.

As Robin runs from Black Maria's Gifters, she is joined by Brook, who relieves that she was not tricked by the Illusion Mist. However, they are suddenly attacked by Black Maria herself, who admonishes Robin for attacking her own mother. She calls them cruel for attacking their friends and family, but the duo ignore her, and Robin remarks that Brook was immune to the mist as well.
He explains that he saw his old crew in the mist. Together, the old friends played Binks' Sake for the first time in 50 years, as Brook thought back to his time as one of their companions. As he thought back, he was attacked by the Beasts Pirates member disguised as Yorki, though he was able to dodge the attack in time. He reveals that he was simply reminded that his old crewmates are dead as he defeats the impersonators one-by-one.
Continuing his conversation with Robin, Brook explains that while being stuck in the Florian Triangle for 50 years, he constantly wished his crewmates had been alive, even hallucinating that they were. However, every time he imagined them, the fantasy was broken, and he was forced to reconcile with their deaths. As the two continue running, Robin points out that they have a lot in common, and Brook thinks back to his time joining the Straw Hat Pirates.
While Robin and Brook keep running, Black Maria swipes at them, burning the floor behind them. She shoots silk to the roof and jumps above them, forcing them to suddenly stop. She begins spinning Wanyudo around, causing Robin to grab onto the ceiling and lift the two Straw Hats off the floor. Robin advises Black Maria to stop spreading fire, but Black Maria ignores her, asking her to surrender instead. Brook suddenly realizes that Wanyudo is a living being, sending his soul through him and freezing him, stopping his flames. Black Maria angrily swipes at the ceiling, causing the Straw Hats to fall to the floor.
As the two fall, Brook covers the ground in ice, breaking their fall. Black Maria tries to state that Sanji sold out Robin, hence the reason he called for help, but Robin ignores her. Brook leaves Black Maria to Robin, promising to defeat her Gifters instead. Once Brook leaves, Robin argues with Black Maria's description of Sanji, and begins fighting back in earnest.
Robin creates a giant version of herself, grabbing Black Maria with multiple extra sets of giant hands. However, Black Maria begins slicing at the arms, causing injuries to form on Robin herself. Noticing Robin receive the injuries, Black Maria launches multiple tendrils of thread, blocking the movement of Robin's enlarged limbs.
Back on mainland, Momonosuke and Shinobu watch as Onigashima flies more inland. They suddenly notice the Polar Tang at the shore, with Luffy loudly shouting for meat. He quickly eats through all the Heart Pirates' provisions, while still asking for more, when Momonosuke and Shinobu run over to him. The Heart Pirates explain how they found Luffy, and Momonosuke explains what happened to Kikunojo and Kin'emon. Momonosuke begins crying, and Luffy yells at him to stop, stating he'll be the next Shogun. He then begins yelling for meat again, as Caribou arrives behind a shipwrecked ship, offering meat to the Heart Pirates. Meanwhile, Luffy asks Momonosuke to transform into a dragon and bring him back up to Onigashima.

Black Maria shoots her webs at Robin's enlarged form, grabbing her arms and stopping their movement. She forces Robin's arms open, undoing her defenses, and jumps on top of her to begin punching her. Eventually, Robin cancels her technique, recreating her giant arms behind Black Maria. However, Black Maria is able to block the attack, burning the webs she used and surrounding Robin in the process. Black Maria begins swiping at Robin, forcing her to evade, until she ends up caught in one of Black Maria's webs.
Black Maria states that she's only getting payback for Robin punching her earlier, and she hits Robin again, throwing her into another set of webs. As she continues to beat Robin, she berates her, stating that she's only useful as somebody who can read the Poneglyphs. Black Maria's insults remind Robin of her childhood and time on the run, and Brook advises Black Maria to run before it's too late.
As Robin continues to think back, she remembers a training session with the Revolutionary Army, during which she learned a new slapping technique that applies Fish-Man Karate techniques. She creates another giant arm, slapping the ceiling above her and crashing debris above Black Maria, putting out the fire in the process. Free from the webs, Robin creates another giant body, this one in the shape of a demon. She generates more arms, trapping Black Maria in a grappling hold. She then knocks her unconscious with Clutch.
Hearing Black Maria's scream, her Gifters try to see through Brook's ice wall. They realize the Black Maria has lost, and while in a panic, are swiftly defeated by Brook. Back on the Wano mainland, Luffy eats the food provided by Caribou. As he eats, he reassures the Heart Pirates that their captain is alive, and Momonosuke tries to convince Shinobu to transform him into an adult.

A Mary watches Black Maria, the last remaining Tobiroppo, face defeat. Raizo enters battle against Fukurokuju but Fukurokuju uses his long earlobes as whips, knocking him to the ground.
Killer battles Hawkins and manages to slash him, but Hawkins' Devil Fruit ability allows him to redirect the damage onto other people, leaving himself unharmed. When Killer stabs Hawkins, he instead injures Kid, hurting his battle with Big Mom. Killer realizes that he cannot harm Hawkins without first killing his own captain.
On the live floor, Sanji is left to battle against both King and Queen while Zoro continues to heal, waiting for the drug to take effect. Perospero attempts to sabotage Sanji by shooting him with his candy bow, but Nekomamushi appears and strikes him out of the castle.
King and Queen get the upper hand and strike Sanji down. While Queen brutally punishes the defected Gifters, King decides to pursue and attack Zoro while he is incapacitated. Although Chopper's group attempts to take Zoro away, King stops them, with the drug having yet to take effect. 

King intercepts Chopper's group which is carrying Zoro. Sanji sees this and tries to defend against King but is shot by Queen's laser. Marco manages to block King's attack and the two square off. Marco talks of a race that could ignite themselves and once lived on top of the Red Line and says that he didn't expect to meet one in King.
King and Queen are prepared to fight Marco, but he surrenders seeing that Zoro has recovered from his injuries, thanks to the drug given to him by Miyagi. Zoro deflects Queen's attack. He and Sanji then proceed to attack the two All-Stars.
Marco spaces out as he watches the fight. He recalls his conversation with Whitebeard about how Mary Geoise used to be the Land of Gods. He is then saved by Izou when some Beasts Pirates shoot at Marco while he is in a daze.
During their fight, Sanji notices something different in his body from when he put on his Raid Suit a while back. Queen notices this, too, as he claims that Sanji must also be a cyborg like Judge's other children since no human can ignite themselves unless he's a Lunarian.
As the four continue to battle, Hyogoro and Kawamatsu notice Zoro's similarities with the former Daimyo of Ringo, Shimotsuki Ushimaru, who was a decendant of the God of the Blade, Shimotsuki Ryuma-from the way he stands, his one eye, down to his swordplay. They feel that the fact that he returned Shusui to Wano was fate.
Meanwhile in Tokage Port, Luffy regains his strength and looks for Momonosuke. Shinobu responds to Luffy as two giant eyes appear behind the shadows.

The castle is slowly being engulfed by fire. A large number of Beasts Pirates quickly move towards the Live Floor where Sanji, Zoro, King and Queen are fighting. Hyogoro and Kawamatsu see this and stop them from interfering with the fight. Meanwhile, Franky defeats Sasaki and fends off some Beasts Pirates. However, he runs out of cola so Bepo, Penguin, and Shachi step in.
On the second floor of the castle, Nami, Usopp, and Tama are riding on Speed's back, with Zeus following close by. They are running away from Beasts Pirates when a crocodile Gifter blocks their way. This forces Speed to accelerate, which causes Usopp to fall off her back.
On the same floor, Law and Kid are battling with Big Mom. Her Haoshoku Haki causes a large number of Beasts Pirates to lose consciousness, which saves Usopp from their attacks. Usopp bluffs about causing the surge of Haki and urges the remaining conscious Beasts Pirates to join him.
On the third floor, Brook is carrying an unconscious Robin inside the burning floor. On the fourth floor, Jinbe and Heat are also fighting Beasts Pirates. Meanwhile, at the rooftop, Yamato barely manages to keep Kaidou preoccupied while waiting for Luffy to return.
In the Treasure Repository, Jack and Inuarashi are still engaged in battle. Jack seems to have the upper hand since Inuarashi is indoors and unable to use his Sulong form. However, using the memory of Jack's transgressions against him, he gets a surge of energy to toss Jack over his shoulder, which breaks a wall leading to a portion of the castle where the roof was blown off. Now with the moon visible, Inuarashi transforms into his Sulong form. Outside, Nekomamushi faces Perospero, vowing to avenge Pedro's death. He, too, transforms into a Sulong.
In Tokage Port, Caribou and the other Heart Pirates see a large dragon and are frightened as it resembles Kaidou. Luffy approaches the dragon, knowing that it is actually Momonosuke. Shinobu reveals that she used her Juku Juku no Mi abilities to age him to 28 years old, at the young shogun's request. Luffy then tells Momonosuke that it's time for them to take Wano back.

Luffy rides on Momonusuke's back and they start flying towards Kaidou. However, being afraid of heights and having realized that they have been flying, Momonosuke comes crashing down.
Meanwhile, Yamato and Kaidou continue to fight. Yamato remembers the first time he saw Oden and how the latter's sacrifice to save his retainers touched him as a young child. This caused the young Yamato to rampage around the castle. Beasts Pirates tried to restrain him, but he inadvertently used Haoshoku Haki and knocked out most of them. Ultimately, the men were able to restrain him, and Kaidou went to investigate the commotion caused by his son.
When Yamato declared his love for Oden and declared himself to be Oden, Kaidou chained him and locked him up inside the Sacred Cave. Kaidou saw that his son had potential as he was able to knock out a number of his men using Haki. He told Yamato that he would be locked up for a month to cool his head, but if he changed his mind and joined his army, he would only need to call out from the cave's air hole in the ceiling. Yamato begged for his father to release him and to give him food since he was starving, but the emperor left him inside with three samurai who were also held captive. He also left the samurai their swords and a meal good for one person. It was then revealed that after Oden's execution, Daimyos from across the land stood up, with the three being the fiercest of them all.
Yamato was frightened at the thought of being left alone with the samurai who undoubtedly hated his father and could possibly take it out on him. However, the three samurai showed him nothing but kindness. They gave him the food, released him from his chains and trained him. When he saw that the samurai did not intend to harm him, he asked them to help him read Oden's journal which he found at the foot of Oden Castle.
The four read the journal together, which detailed Oden's travels from the time Roger asked Whitebeard to lend him Oden so he could reach the final island, up to when Roger's crew finally reached Laugh Tale. The journal detailed that in 20 years, the next era would come surging into the New World.
After 10 days, the samurai resolved to escape from the cave after seeing that Kaidou had no plans on releasing his own son. They also had no intention of rotting away inside the cave and while they would not be able to see the battle that would happen in 20 years, they were reassured knowing that people like Yamato would still be there to fight for Wano.
Back in the present, Yamato and Kaidou are still exchanging blows, with Yamato remembering that there were people who believed in him and accepted him. He demands to know why his father is taking away his freedom and the freedom of Wano. Kaidou answers that life isn't a series of simple questions and answers.

Luffy urges Momonosuke to fly and grows impatient, but the young master is crippled by his fear of heights.
Meanwhile, Yamato keeps Kaidou busy and the two continue to exchange blows. Yamato manages to make Kaidou bleed and is able to defend against Kaidou's attacks using Mirror Mountain. He declares that he cannot die until Luffy comes back. Kaidou mocks Yamato's resolve to protect Wano since Yamato is still his son so the people of Wano would never look at him as an ally. Kaidou further laughs at how Yamato doesn't even have any friends.
Yamato disagrees as he remembers Ace who became his friend when the latter came to Wano. However, he also remembers when he was a child and one of Kaidou's men helped him by giving him food when he was starving and a blanket when it was cold. This same pirate was executed when it was found out that he was helping Kaidou's son. Kaidou points out that all of those who have been good to Yamato are all dead, including the samurai who were locked up with him in the Sacred Cave. Yamato rebuffs him, saying that they all died because he killed him, to which Kaidou replies that they were getting in the way of him educating his child.
Back in Tokage Port, Luffy pulls on Momonosuke's dragon whiskers to force him to fly. Ultimately, Momonosuke takes flight towards Onigashima, albeit, with closed eyes due to fear. Flying blindly, Momonosuke crashes into the Skull Dome and flies through the castle, destroying walls and ceilings as he runs wild. He finally opens his eyes and finds his way to the rooftop where they see Kaidou and Yamato. Yamato prepares his Shinsoku Hakujaku technique and Luffy joins him in Gear 4, using his Snakeman: Jet Culverin technique. The two attack at the same time which sends Kaidou flying across the rooftop.

After sending Kaidou flying across the rooftop, Luffy thanks Yamato for holding back Kaidou and Yamato tells Luffy how relieved he is that Luffy has finally arrived. Kaidou then emerges in his dragon form, unscathed. He is in disbelief that Luffy survived his previous injuries. He notices the pink dragon before him and demands to know who he is. Although frightened at first, Momonosuke answers that he is Kozuki Momonosuke, the one who will become the Shogun of Wano.
Meanwhile, the people in the Flower Capital are oblivious to the events on Onigashima. Toko and Hitetsu join the festivities, with Toko remembering her adoptive father, Yasuie. Hitetsu, on the other hand, is reminded of his ward, Tama, who joined the fight in Onigashima, and worries for her safety.
A Mary reports updates on the rooftop to Queen which the others in the Skull Dome also hear. Elsewhere, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi seem to be winning their fights against Jack and Perospero, respectively. However, clouds slowly obstruct the full moon, and the minks are transformed out of their Sulong form. Deprived of their Sulong form and drained of their energy, the minks are overwhelmed by their opponents.
On the rooftop, Kaidou is about to breathe fire on Momonosuke, so Luffy urges the pink dragon to do the same. However, Momonosuke doubts he can produce such an attack so Luffy instead, tells him to bite the emperor. Momonosuke is horrified by this suggestion. Kaidou blasts him with successive Bolo Breaths which Momonosuke barely manages to evade. Momonosuke remembers what he and his family went through in the hands of Kaidou so he musters up the courage to sink his teeth onto the blue dragon.
An angered Kaidou is about to blast another attack when Luffy punches him in the face, preventing Kaidou from breathing fire. Luffy shouts his praises for Momonosuke which is heard all throughout Onigashima. Luffy tells Momonosuke that he just bit an Emperor of the Sea so there should be nothing left in the world that can scare him. Momonosuke realizes what he just did and concurs.

Luffy's proud declaration from the Skull Dome rooftop inspires the remaining fighters of the alliance to continue fighting. With this, Zoro and Sanji increase their efforts, beginning to overpower King and Queen. 
However, Kaidou reemerges from the rubble after being bitten. After both leaping into the air, Luffy and Kaidou clash once again, creating a powerful explosion that breaks apart the clouds above and revealing the night sky. Upon Luffy's instruction, Momonosuke and Yamato then leap off the edge of the island, aiming to stop Onigashima from moving.
The explosion created by Luffy and Kaidou, which revealed the full moon, allows Inuarashi and Nekomamushi to transform back into their Sulong forms. They both use Oden One Sword Style; Nekomamushi uses Neko Niko Ban to strike a powerful uppercut, defeating Perospero and shattering his candy arm. Inuarashi uses Inu Spire on Jack, sending a piercing shockwave that destroys his stomach plate and knocks him out. Jack's defeat is observed by Orochi, who is still alive and hiding, and horrified that an All-Star has been defeated.
On the rooftop, Luffy and Kaidou resume their battle.

Momonosuke and Yamato fly away from the island to try to move it back. They find out that Kaidou's flame clouds are quickly weakening and the island risks collapsing and crashing into the Flower Capital below. Momonosuke attempts to push the island, but to no avail. He finds that he will have to create flame clouds of his own to support the island.
On the Live Floor, Sanji's battle with Queen continues and Zoro's battle with King. Zoro sends a flying slash that slices off a spike from King's outfit. As this was the first time that King's mask was compromised, he quickly grows infuriated and transforms back into his pterodactyl form, sending flying slashes into the battle. Several fighters are hit by the slashes and one slash hits Queen's behind.
Zoro and King separate from the other fighters. Zoro slices off another piece of King's mask, revealing part of his scalp. King's attacks send Zoro flying off the island but Zoro manages to get back onto the island. They continue the battle in the air. Meanwhile, as they battle inside, Queen begs Sanji to put on his Raid Suit.

Momonosuke attempts to make Flame Clouds in order to move Onigashima, but he struggles to create them as the clouds immediately disintegrate. Yamato decides to leave him and go back into the island to secure explosives; as explosives are stored on the island, if the island crashes into the Flower Capital the explosion will be amplified by the explosives. To prevent this, Yamato climbs back onto the island and runs inside.
Lucci contacts Guernica and the other members of CP0 on the island, planning their moves. If the alliance wins the battle and Kaidou falls, the World Government plans to seize Wano Country to make it a member state. Lucci informs them that reinforcements are on the way. He also informs them of another target of interest: Nico Robin.
Sanji's battle with Queen intensifies as he uses Diable Jambe against Queen. Queen uses his Brachiojaurus move: with his cyborg enhancements, he detaches his head and tail from his body so his body resembles a snake. He captures Sanji and constricts him, breaking his bones and crushing him. However, Queen accidentally fires missiles at himself, freeing Sanji from his grasp. 
Strangely, Sanji gets up and finds that he was unharmed by Queen's attack. Although his bones are broken and dented, he is able to pound his body back into place. Queen attempts to behead Sanji, only for the blade to shatter against Sanji's neck and cause him only minor pain. Sanji realizes that he may have genetic enhancements just like his siblings.

Killer continues his battle against Hawkins, but the battle is not in his favour. Thanks to his Devil Fruit abilities, Hawkins has total immunity from Killer's attacks, with the damage inflicted being redirected to Kid. 
Killer's subordinates arrive to his aid, but Killer refuses to attack Hawkins. So, Hawkins decides to harm Kid himself by repeatedly slamming his head into the wall. The damage is redirected to Kid's head, proving especially disadvantageous to Kid due to his battle with Big Mom. When Killer declares that Kid will become the Pirate King, this angers Hawkins, causing him to ruthlessly beat Killer. 
With a single attack, Killer slices off Hawkins' left arm. Because Kid lost his left arm prior, the attack leaves him totally unharmed. Instead, Hawkins loses his own arm. Killer pulls the straw doll out of Hawkins' severed arm and destroys it, undoing the damage dealt to Kid's body. Hawkins no longer has any people left to redirect damage to and is now completely vulnerable to attacks.
In a last-ditch effort, Hawkins draws a tarot card. He reveals the "Death" card upright, summoning a giant straw monster. Killer decapitates the monster with the Zanshu Claw move, instantly destroying it. Hawkins draws a second card, only to find to his horror that he drew the "Tower" card. With this, Killer sliced Hawkins with Gin Sonic, defeating him and causing him to collapse.
The "Tower" card is assigned two meanings: the death of the old and a new path.

After Queen's blade shatters upon contact with Sanji's neck, Sanji realizes that he may have scientific enhancements just like his siblings. Even when his enemies shoot him with firearms, he survives uninjured. Still, he denies his abilities due to contempt of his old family.
X Drake continues his battle against combatant Beasts Pirates when he is confronted by Scratchmen Apoo. Apoo suggests an underhanded proposition; given that both sides of the battle would be heavily damaged after the raid, Apoo suggests the formation of an alliance to defeat the weakened victor after the battle concludes. On his side are three Numbers: Inbi, Fuga and Zanki. Drake is uninterested by this offer, untrusting of Apoo.
Tama and her tamed Beasts Pirates try to escape the fire, but they come face-to-face with Kin'emon's lower body. Apparently, he survived his defeat at Kaidou's hands as he had already been bifurcated by Law. While his upper body remains in the attic attempting to wake up Kiku, his lower body looks for allies. His lower body can communicate, but cannot hear others because his ears are on his other half. He reunites with Nami's group after she traces the reverse crescent on his leg, allowing him to identify her as an ally.
On the third floor, Brook continues to escort Robin away, but is confronted by Guernica and the members of CP0. Guernica attempts to capture Robin, but Mink combatants come to her support. 
Kanjuro reveals to have also survived his defeat and is in contact with Orochi. On Orochi's order, Kanjuro decides to give a "final performance" using his Devil Fruit ability. To symbolize the burning hatred of the Kurozumi Family, he uses Kazenbo: he draws and creates a large ghost-like entity wreathed in flames. The monster passes through walls and sets everything it touches on fire. Shortly after creating the monster, Kanjuro collapses, finally succumbing to his injuries.
The Marys announce that the Skull Dome is now on fire. Sanji continues his battle against Queen, Zoro battles fiercely against King in the air, and Luffy and Kaidou continue their combat on the roof of the Skull Dome.

As Momonosuke attempts to create the flame clouds needed to stop Onigashima, Yamato runs to the armory to secure the explosives. However, on Orochi's command, Kanjuro's fire monster also heads towards the armory to ignite the explosives to destroy the island. Yamato gets to the armory first and heads to the door.
Meanwhile, Law and Kid continue their battle against Big Mom, but their attacks are futile because of her homies. So, they decide to carry out an "ace card": their awakened powers. After the castle is devastated by Big Mom's Ikoku, Law his awakened powers, allowing him to coat objects with ROOM. He coats his sword, inserts it into Big Mom's neck, and unleashes Shock Wille, striking her with an electrical shock. Kid uses his awakened powers, allowing him to make other objects magnetic. He makes Big Mom magnetic, causing objects including Napoleon to fly towards her. Then, he magnetizes the castle's pillars, causing them to strike her and crush her.
Although Big Mom was finally damaged for the first time in the battle, she survived the entire attack, now enraged. Using Soul Pocus, she steals the lifespans of the soldiers, using the souls to create homies. Then, she consumes an entire year's worth of her own lifespan, causing her to grow to a gigantic size.

Apoo tries to convince X Drake to team up against Kaidou after the emperor defeats Luffy. He states that Kaidou has never been weakened like this so now is the time to defeat him. However, X Drake rejects his offer and attacks Apoo instead. The skirmish is interrupted by Yamato who is in a hurry to go to the armory and stop Onigashima from exploding.
Elsewhere, CP0 agents have come to take Nico Robin. However, the Minks attack the agents as a distraction, allowing Brook and Robin to escape.
Meanwhile, Sanji is fleeing from his fight against Queen after he noticed that his body had started mutating. His fears of turning into a cold-blooded Germa soldier like his brothers is slowly taking over him. He fails to notice a lady calling to him for help and he only regains his senses when he sees the said lady on the floor bleeding and looking at him in terror. He rushes to help her, but she begs him not to come closer.
O-some, as the woman is called, rushes to a nearby room where other geishas have been hiding. Sanji again offers to help O-some, but the other women chastise him for hurting a defenseless woman. The women drive him outside their hiding place where he finds Queen who had been looking for him.
Sanji is shaken by the thought of possibly striking a woman. He comes to the realization that his mutation was brought about by his use of his Germa suit. He wonders if Luffy would rather have an unreliable crewmate who is helpless against women or a cruel and heartless warrior who is able to bring anybody's head when he's ordered. He ponders what the future Pirate King needs and decides to destroy his Germa suit.
Using a Den Den Mushi, Sanji calls Zoro, who is in the middle of his fight against King. Unsure if his mutation will change him for good, he asks the swordsman, once the battle is won, to kill him if he ever loses his humanity. Zoro gladly accepts and tells Sanji not to die before then. Shortly after, Sanji turns seemingly invisible and hits Queen with his Hell Memories attack.

An angered Big Mom promises to inflict unspeakable pain towards Law and Kid. She sics her homies on the two which they barely fend off. Meanwhile, Kazenbo is wreaking havoc and burning everything on its path. Samurai and Beasts Pirates all flee in a panic.
Elsewhere, Brook and Robin are on the run with the CP0 hot on their tail. Yamato is still charging his way towards the armory, hoping to reach the bombs stored there before Kazenbo reaches them.
In the Treasure Repository, Orochi listens with excitement to the chaos brought about by Kazenbo, which was created to exact vengeance in the name of the Kurozami Clan. Suddenly, he hears a shamisen playing nearby. He is drawn to the sound which reminds him of his beloved Komurasaki.
Outside, a determined Momonosuke is frantically creating flame clouds to prevent Onigashima from crashing down onto the Flower Capital.
Zoro and King are still in battle. Zoro is overwhelmed by King's attacks which he deems to be unblockable. He notices the flames on King's back, and wonders out loud if this is an ability from his Devil Fruit. King hears this and answers that it is not a feature of the Pteranodon. Zoro attacks with Three Sword Style: Black Rope Dragon Twister but King easily overcomes this. Zoro is at a loss at how durable King is, noting that it must be because of his dinosaur Devil Fruit. King agrees but hints that it might also be because he is also a little unique. Zoro concludes that King's durability, wings, and flames are a feature of a tribe that is unknown to him. Zoro is knocked down and exhausted. All of a sudden, Zoro hears the sound of a shamisen which causes Enma to start draining his Haki and emaciate his arm.
Inside, Orochi crawls towards the shamisen player and sees Komurasaki alive and well. He cries out in tears while she greets him with a smile.

Kazenbo continues to make its way down to the Armory. The Beast Pirates and samurai try in vain to stop its descent. Yamato realizes that the flame spectre is moving through walls and that it will be reaching the Armory soon. He urgently moves faster, enlisting the help of the Numbers, Fuga. Atop Fuga's head are Brook and Robin. Knowing that the CP0 are just behind the flames, they hop off and quickly put distance between them and the agents.
The CP0, still in pursuit, are stopped when their pictures are taken by Apoo who plans to sell the photos to Morgans of the World Economy News Paper. After Apoo reveals his plans, one of agents attacks him using his Shigan technique. The agent then turns his sights on to X Drake and attacks him using the same technique. He is, however, stopped by Apoo, who survived by defending himself using Busoshoku Haki. Apoo uses Scratch Boom which sends the agent flying. X Drake suggests that they team up to take down the CP0 agents and Apoo gladly accepts.
Meanwhile, Onigashima is inching closer towards the Flower Capital. Momonosuke is still creating Flame Clouds to prevent the floating island from crashing. He remembers his promise to Luffy, Yamato, and the citizens of Wano, and the reason why he asked Shinobu to age him. He is determined not to betray this promise and keep everyone safe.
Inside, Komurasaki plays her shamisen while Orochi watches tearfully. The sound of the shamisen causes Enma to drain Zoro's Haki. Seeing Zoro trying to stop Enma from fully draining him, King mocks how Zoro is having a falling out with his "friend." The two continue their clash, with King continuously ridiculing and insulting Zoro.
Elsewhere, Sanji attacks Queen with Hell Memories, which sends the latter flying. However, the All-Star laughs it off, expressing his disappointment that he was not able to see Sanji use his Germa suit. Queen proceeds to provoke Sanji, calling him mentally weak for asking Zoro for help. He tells Sanji that Zoro isn't any better and that he will not be able to defeat King since King is a Lunarian, a race people once revered as gods. Sanji brushes this off, asking how "gods" managed to become extinct.
Zoro is at a loss at how to defeat King. He attacks using his One Sword Style Iai: Death-Lion's Song, an attack he deems to be stronger than his previous attacks. However, this does not cause any damage to King. Zoro hears the shamisen and once again, Enma drains his Haki. At the same time, King attacks Zoro with Tempuraudon and lands a hit on Zoro. This hit causes Zoro to let go of his swords. King notes that this is the first time he has ever seen a swordsman being held back by his own swords. Zoro falls and tries to retrieve his blades. He recalls the day he obtained Sandai Kitetsu, the cursed sword forged by Tenguyama Hitetsu. King attacks Zoro in midair which sends him crashing onto the side of the floating island. There, he finds Wado Ichimonji, the sword of Kuina, his childhood friend. In a flashback, Hitetsu explains that Enma and Wado Ichimonji were forged by the same person, the legendary swordsmith, Shimotsuki Kozaburo. This is why Enma fits comfortably in Zoro's hand. These memories make Zoro question how a sword from the Land of Wano ended up in a remote region in the East Blue.

Zoro retrieves two of his swords and proceeds to attack King. The two engage in an intense exchange of blows. King launches his Barizodon attack. Zoro senses Enma nearby and immediately lunges to retrieve it. As Zoro grabs Enma, it immediately drains his Haki, emaciating his arm. King attacks him relentlessly and he barely manages to block the Lunarian's slashes. Zoro falls and Enma continues to drain him.
Zoro recalls how he learned of the battle cry, "Sunacchi" and how Momonosuke was prohibited from uttering such cry. He explained to the young daimyo that he learned it from an old man from his village a long time ago. He remembers the old man who was always on the seacoast. He also recalls Hitetsu explaining that his two swords, Wado Ichimonji and Enma were both forged by the legendary swordsmith, Shimotsuki Kozuburo.
Zoro remembers events in a village in East Blue, thirteen years ago. A young Zoro was training with Kuina, his childhood friend, at the Isshin Dojo. Kuina easily disarmed him and knocked him down. Determined to best his rival, Zoro went to the coast to train. There he saw an old man looking towards the sea. Sensing that Zoro was a bit down, the old man taught him of the battle cry, "Sunacchi," which, according to him, was a good-luck word to uplift one's spirit. Zoro told him that he had no use for such a weird word, but asked the old man if he was a samurai, since everyone at the dojo said so. Instead of answering, the old man told Zoro to pay the gossip no mind. He then told the young boy that the Marines would be invading their village soon, but he refused to tell him why and told him to go home. Instead of going home, however, Zoro started training, while the old man watched on.
After Zoro explained why he was training hard, the old man offered to give Zoro two of his swords that he forged himself. He explained they were blunt so Zoro could use them for practice. The old man explained that swords were made to kill. Every sword had a personality and that it was a swordsman's job to tame them. He went on to say that a "cursed sword" is a fine sword and was simply called as such because the weak feared it. The old man recalled a sword that he forged when he was younger. He deemed it the greatest piece that he crafted in his life. Just by holding it, the blade would give the bearer chills, thus he dubbed it "the great king of hell." Remembering all these, Zoro realizes that the aforementioned sword-the great king of hell-was none other than Enma.
Outside, Momonosuke accidentally grasps Kaidou's Flame Clouds. He realizes that since he is also a dragon, he can also control and manipulate the clouds. He proceeds to try and divert Onigashima's path.
Meanwhile, Zoro pieces together the clues to the history of his village. It was not a coincidence that the village was named Shimotsuki. Hitetsu mentioned that Shimotsuki Kozaburo, had left Wano more than fifty years ago. With all this information and his memories, Zoro deduces that the old man and Kozaburo are one and the same. He remembers Kozaburo explaining that it is the sword that chooses its wielder. With that, Zoro understood that Enma chose him and was simply testing him.
He recalls one night when he was younger and had challenged Kuina to their 2001st duel, all of which were won by the latter. Zoro cried in frustration, but Kuina told him that it is she who should be frustrated. Her father had told her that as a girl, she could never surpass a man as a swordsman. She envied Zoro for being a boy, since she, too, wanted to become the world's greatest. Hearing Kuina utter those words angered Zoro since he was aiming to surpass her and saying that was insulting all the hard training he was doing. With this, the two made a pact to become the world's greatest swordsman. The following day, Kuina died after falling down a flight of stairs. Distraught, Zoro begged Kuina's father to give him Kuina's sword, also promising to be so strong that his name reached her in heaven.
Back to the present, Zoro realizes that Enma was not draining him out of malice and admits that he was simply lacking thus unable to withstand the sword unlike Oden who had been using it with ease even though the sword took away so much of his Haki. Zoro tries to figure out how to control the flow of his Haki and keep it from being depleted and ultimately causing his death. Rather than fighting the sword's effects, he decides to let Enma take his Haki instead and "conquers" it, unleashing his Haoshoku Haki and rendering the nearby Beast Pirates unconscious. King notices and asks if he was trying to be a king. Zoro answers by saying that he just remembered his promise to Luffy and Kuina.

Sanji continues his battle against Queen. After Sanji destroys his Raid Suit, Queen decides to continue on with the battle. This time, he demonstrates his scientific enhancements and uses techniques from Sanji's brothers; he uses Ichiji's Sparking Red ability to fire laser eyes (Sparking Queen), Niji's Dengeki Blue to strike Sanji with electricity (Henry Queen), and Yonji's Winch Green ability to use his retractable arm as a winch, grabbing Sanji and spinning him in the air (Winch Queen). He reveals that he had a rivalry with Judge and his goal is to outperform Germa 66. Before he could slam Sanji into the ground, however, Sanji uses a Diable Jambe-infused kick to destroy Queen's mechanical arm.
In fury, Queen uses Sanji's Stealth Black ability to turn himself invisible to catch him off guard. However, Sanji uses Soru, allowing him to turn effectively invisible to Queen but physically taxing him. Queen plans to wait for him to exhaust himself, then strike him unexpectedly. Sanji perches on a wall looking for his next approach.
Some, the woman who Sanji accidentally attacked earlier, has her wounds bandaged and healed. However, the room where she and the other geishas were hiding are destroyed during the battle. The geishas decide to evacuate, but Some's pet mouse, Chuji, is missing, so Some stays behind to look for it.
Some follows Chuji dangerously into the battlefield, unaware of Queen's presence. Queen recognizes her; he had visited the pleasure hall numerous times in the past to request her services, but she repeatedly turned him down using sickness as an excuse. Seeing her healthy, Queen realizes that he had been lied to. Infuriated, he strikes Some in anger. 
Seeing Queen attack a woman infuriates Sanji, allowing him to use a new ability. Using his strong exoskeleton to protect his body and coating his Diable Jambe flames with Busoshoku Haki, he is able to turn the flames into hotter, blue flames, called Ifrit Jambe. This gives him added agility and greater kicking power against Queen. He strikes Queen in a set of attacks, knocking him into the ground.
Queen gets up, preparing his retaliation. Remembering his past and accepting the scientific advancements given to him by Germa 66, Sanji uses Boeuf Burst against Queen, sending a powerful flaming kick into Queen's stomach and defeating him. Queen's unconscious body is sent flying out of the Skull Dome and off Onigashima, falling into the mainland below. Emerging victorious from his battle, Sanji returns Chuji to Some then collapses from his injuries.

King had asked Zoro if he was trying to be a king, but Zoro tells him that he was simply remembering his promise to his captain and his best friend. King scoffs at this, saying that so long as he and Kaidou were around, Zoro's promise will never be fulfilled. With that, the two continue their battle, exchanging blow after blow. Zoro is exhausted, but King is still unscathed. King mocks his attempts and tells him that his sword attacks will not work against him.
King is now on the offensive. Zoro tries to analyze their battle while he is parrying King's attacks. He knows that he is slashing King, but his slashes are not affecting him at all. Zoro uses his Ul-Tora Gari attack while infusing his swords with Haoshoku Haki. The attack manages to make King bleed and also rips up the All-Star's mask. Zoro finally figures out that King's durability and speed are directly linked to the flames on his back-that once the said flames go out, King's speed increases, but his defense gets weaker.
A couple of Beasts Pirates see King without his mask and observe that he has black wings, white hair, and brown skin. They say that he is of a race so rare that the World Government awards 100,000,000 to those with information about their existence. King overhears this and burns them to death.
King and Zoro continue their battle outside the Skull Dome. King finally acknowledges Zoro's strength and the danger he poses. Zoro accepts the compliment and vows to end Kaidou's and the Beasts Pirates' reign. King rebuffs this and declares that Kaidou will be the King of the Pirates. Zoro rejects this declaration and attacks with King of Hell, Three Sword Style: Rengoku Oni Giri.
King recalls the first time he met Kaidou on Punk Hazard many years ago. The younger Kaidou was a guinea pig of the World Government and had just escaped. While making his way out of the laboratory, he saw a young man engulfed by fire after undergoing a durability test. Kaidou surmised that he was a Lunarian, given his ability to withstand the raging fire. Kaidou told the young man that he was going to form a new pirate group and offered him a chance to make the not-so-fascinating world fascinating. The man accepted the offer after Kaidou guaranteed that he would change the world. After making their escape, Kaidou asked the man his name and he answered that it was "Alber." After noting how strong Alber was, Kaidou told him that he should be named "King" instead. Kaidou promised King that he would never betray him and made him his right-hand man.
Back in the present, Zoro's attack is ineffective and King counters with Imperial Flaming Wings, which sends magma-like flames onto Zoro. King then strikes Zoro using his burning sword which Zoro blocks. Refusing to lose any of his swords, Zoro releases a burst of Haki which sends the two of them flying. Zoro is unable to see King, suspecting that the flames on King's back are out since the Lunarian is moving at an incredible speed. Knowing that King is not invulnerable at this state, Zoro attacks using Yakkodori, knocking King back.
King realizes that Zoro has figured out the mechanics to his strength, and Zoro finally sees a window to King's defeat. Zoro uses his Ul-Tora Gari technique, but King blocks the attack despite having his flames on. Zoro taunts King for blocking his attack, but King retorts that Zoro is biologically incapable of defeating him. He then launches his Imperial Flaming Wings attack which sends a multitude of magma-like streams onto Zoro. The flames try to engulf Zoro, but he cuts them down while he makes his way towards King. Zoro attacks with King of Hell, Three-Sword Serpent: 103 Mercies Dragon Damnation and King counters with his Extra Large Imperial Flaming Wings.
The clash sends a shockwave throughout Onigashima. King's sword is broken, and his right wing is ripped apart. As King's consciousness fades, he thinks of his captain. He had thought of Kaidou as the prophesized Joy Boy. Thankful for the life Kaidou gave to him, he asked his captain to remain the strongest. He also promised that he would never lose so that he can make Kaidou the King of the Pirates. At the same time, Zoro, too, recalls his vow to become the world's greatest swordsman-a vow he made to Luffy, the man who he declared will become the Pirate King.

King falls off Onigashima and Zoro losses consciousness after defeating the Lunarian. A Mary announces King's loss to a CP0 agent. The agent now assesses the situation to be dire as all of the Beast Pirates' All-Stars and Tobiroppo members have lost. He notes that only Big Mom and Kaidou stand in the way of the Straw Hats' victory.
Kaidou and Luffy's battle is reaching its climax, however, if Luffy wins, Kaidou will lose control over his Flame Clouds which are keeping Onigashima afloat. The floating island will crash and the explosives in the basement will cause the Flower Capital to explode. Momonosuke, now able to control Kaidou's Flame Clouds, tries to pull Onigashima away to safety.
Kazenbo, a flame specter, is continuing to make its way to the basement with the purpose of making Onigashima explode midair. Yamato, determined to prevent this from happening, finally reaches the door to the basement armory. With the help of Fuga, the doors are opened and Yamato rushes through.
Meanwhile, Usopp finds Kin'emon and Kiku who are both incapacitated. Beast Pirates come in droves to capture them and Usopp tries to fight back. The two samurai ask him to leave them behind, but Usopp chides them for their so-called honor and tells them to hold on to life instead, even with snot dripping from their faces. A few moments later, Izou arrives to stave off the pursuers while Usopp, Kin'emon and Kiku escape on Hamlet's back.
On the third floor of the Skull Dome, Fukurokuju and Raizo are in a stand-off as the two cast Ninpo: Paralysis Jutsu at the same time. Neither one of them budge even though the whole floor is being engulfed in flames.
On the second floor, Komurasaki continues to play her shamisen as Orochi listens on, ecstatic that his love who he thought had died, is alive and well. In his bliss, he is hopeful that all his enemies will be wiped out and he and Komurasaki will get married and spend the rest of their days in Wano. He asks Komurasaki to play his favorite piece and Komurasaki indulges him.
Meanwhile, X Drake and Apoo are defeated by the CP0. Drake is knocked out and Apoo runs away. The agents are apprised of the defeat of the All-Stars and are ordered to leave Onigashima.
On the rooftop, Luffy and Kaidou deal their Haoshoku Haki-coated attacks. Luffy lunges forward but Kaidou bats him away with his Hassaikai. Luffy uses his Gear 3 and attacks with his Roc Gun technique. Kaidou is knocked down and the impact of the attack also causes Luffy to fall to his back. Both are exhausted as they try to catch their breath while lying on the ground. The two stand back up with smiles on their faces. Luffy laughs as he tells Kaidou that it is starting to get fun and, with a huge grin on his face, Kaidou tells him that he feels the same way.

While the battle between Kaidou and Luffy is taking place at the rooftop of the Skull Dome, Momonosuke is desperate to steer Onigashima away from the Flower Capital where its citizens are oblivious to the catastrophe that could befall them. In the Flower Capital, the people are drinking their fill and dancing to the music. They send lanterns to the sky, with their wishes written on them so that they may reach heaven. In hers, Toko writes that she wants to see her adoptive father again, which breaks Hitetsu's heart.
Back at the rooftop, Kaidou looks at the beautiful night sky and takes out a barrel full of sake and takes huge gulps of the alcohol. Luffy is angry that he is drinking while they are fighting. Kaidou tells him that it is because he is having fun. Today is the Fire Festival and they had planned a banquet on Onigashima, but Luffy and the others messed it all up. He offers some booze to Luffy, but the latter refuses and declares, instead that he'll have a banquet of his own after he beats Kaidou.
Kaidou releases a huge amount of Haki and tells Luffy that he hopes he can have a nice big banquet. Luffy is angered once more, seeing that Kaidou is now drunk. Indignant at the accusation, Kaidou throws the barrel of sake down and then weeps at his ruined banquet. He proceeds to hiccup and laugh while staggering around, barely able to keep standing upright. Incensed at the sight of a drunk Kaidou, Luffy charges at him. However, Kaidou easily evades him and attacks using his Lightning Hammered: Ragnaraku technique. Luffy receives a direct hit, and a shockwave is felt throughout the rooftop.
Now in his dragon form, a drunk, weeping Kaidou laments that even though he is having fun, the battle has already destroyed half of his castle which took five years to build. Kaidou continues to wail about his woes while attacking Luffy using his drunken techniques. Luffy continues to retaliate and finally lands a kick to his stomach which causes Kaidou to cough up blood.
Meanwhile, in Mary Geoise, the Five Elders complain how this year's Levely is cursed. They mention that it resulted in the total abolition of the Seven Warlords of the Sea, an incident concerning the Arabasta Kingdom, and the Revolutionary Army's infiltration of Mary Geoise. The blond elder says that they need to set those aside for now and immediately deal with what is happening in the Land of Wano. He is expectant that the CP0 have captured Nico Robin by now, and that the battles involving Big Mom and Kaidou will result to death. He mentions of the need to erase the existence of a certain Devil Fruit. Another elder rebuffs its existence, saying that the said fruit is a mere legend even to them as it has not awakened for centuries. However, the blond elder says that the World Government would not have bothered giving that Devil Fruit another name if they did not want to hide its name from history.
At the seas just outside of Wano, a fleet of Marine Ships are on standby awaiting orders. A scout sees a giant shadow and uses a Den Den Mushi to report this to his superior. He describes the shadow as an island. At a distance, a silhouette of a giant elephant trumpets as it arrives just behind the Marine fleet.

The battle within Onigashima is nearing its conclusion. On the third floor, Raizo and Fukurokuju are still at a standstill with neither one of them releasing their Paralysis Jutsu despite both being caught on fire. On the second floor, Jinbe helps some samurai escape by preventing them from being crushed by fallen debris and pointing out a route to their escape.
On the Performance Floor, Chopper returns to his normal form and is now able to move. He worries for Zoro whom he knows will be suffering twice as bad due to the special medicine which was administered to him in exchange for his temporary super healing. Outside, Zoro is slowly bleeding out. As his blood seeps into the ground, he wakes up in a desolate area. A dark apparition appears before him, resembling a grim reaper. With its scythe, it prepares to swing at Zoro who is frozen in place, calling out to the reaper to stop. Meanwhile, at the Right-Brain Tower, Franky searches for Zoro.
Elsewhere, Izou is finishing off the last of the Beasts Pirates who have been relentlessly attacking him. Weakened, he is easily stabbed in the stomach by a pirate who he shoots to death. He staggers away, using the wall to keep himself up. As he makes his way out of the castle, he hopes that Kin'emon and Kiku have escaped successfully. He comes across the CP0 agents who were after Robin. The agents tell him that they should pretend not to see each other as they had no intention of going after the last remnants of the Whitebeard Pirates since their business right now is with the Straw Hats. Instead of letting them go, however, Izou tells them to stop.
Yamato has finally reached the armory where the bombs are located. Kazenbo also reaches the armory preparing to set fire to the explosives therein. Yamato transforms and uses his Namuji Hyoga technique which freezes everything inside. He then swings at the flame specter, determined to stop it from fulfilling the command given to it by Kanjuro and Orochi. It proceeds to engulf Yamato in flames, with the latter screaming in pain.
Back at the Performance Floor, Big Mom continues to wreak havoc with her lightning attacks, knocking back Law and Kid. She remembers that Kaidou is on the rooftop fighting Luffy and wonders why she still has not heard the emperor's shout of victory. She commands Hera to take her to the rooftop, but Law stops her with K-ROOM. He impales her with his sword and uses Shock Wille, causing her to fall. Kid proceeds to charge at her with his Punk Corna Dio. As Kid and Law prepare to fight her once again, they vow that they will never let her go to the rooftop even if it means their death.

Eustass Kid is at the brink of death and his life flashes before his eyes. He snaps out of it when he hears Law screaming at him to "do it."
Outside, Momonosuke continues to pull Onigashima away from the Flower Capital, determined to save everyone's life at any cost. He remembers his family and vows to save the Land of Wano. He is momentarily distracted when he suddenly hears someone calling out to him.
At the Performance Floor, Big Mom wrestles with Kid's Corna Dio and is knocked down but only for a moment. She stands up with her right arm visibly shattered. She tells them that Law's shockwaves broke her ribs and acknowledges Law's strength. She heals her arm using her Devil Fruit by giving her bones life and having them repair themselves. Seeing Big Mom unleash her Haoshoku Haki, Law tells Kid that he will be out of energy in the next barrage. Before he can ask Kid to coordinate their attacks, Kid demands not to tell him what to do.
Big Mom calls to her homies, Napoleon, Prometheus, and Hera and launches her Maser Saber which cuts Kid's metallic bull in half. Kid uses Assign on Big Mom, magnetizing her and the tower behind her. She is flung towards its wall, unable to escape. Kid's metallic bull is launched towards her, so she tears the wall down and uses it to shield herself from Kid's attack. She sarcastically thanks Kid for putting the wall on her back. Kid ignores this and proceeds to attack her legs, causing her to fall to her knees. Kid and Law bombard her with attacks and manage to damage her bit by bit. She is seemingly unable to keep up with the assault but finally shields herself and counters, sending the two Supernovas flying.
The emperor launches her Mother's Visit Cannon: 3,000 Leagues of Misery technique. Misery, Big Mom's homie, appears before Kid and immediately lunges to attack him. Her continuous onslaught kills those who are nearby and Kid's crew can only watch as their captain takes a beating. As Big Mom commands Misery to destroy her enemies, she notices the surrounding debris floating in air. Law suddenly uses Takt and sends a nearby tower to crush Big Mom. He uses K-ROOM: Anesthesia and stabs her in the chest. His sword extends beyond Onigashima and even to the earth's crust below. Big Mom tries to punch her way out of Law's grasp, but he holds on determined to extend his sword deeper into the ground. His sword finally reaches the earth's magma pool and Law proceeds to launch Puncture Wille. Big Mom panics and cries out for him to stop. The technique creates a giant hole all the way to the ground. Law retracts his blade and moves away from Big Mom.
Big Mom almost falls into the hole but manages to grab on. She commands Misery to burn Law to death, but Law shouts to Kid to "do it." Kid appears, ready to launch his attack. Big Mom eggs him on, saying that it will not be enough to take her down, but Law declares that her era has ended. Kid uses his Damned Punk technique and fires a beam at Big Mom, hoping to send the emperor through the hole Law created. However, she holds on, unwilling to go down.

The standoff between Raizo and Fukurokuju continues as Raizo is ablaze and Fukurokuju's clothing begins to catch fire. Eventually, Fukurokuju is completely set alight. Unable to withstand the heat of the flames, he collapses and screams for water.
Meanwhile, Big Mom is cornered by Kid and Law, as Kid's Damned Punk attempts to knock her into the hole. As a last-ditch effort, she uses Soul Pocus and attempts to take fifty years from their lifespans, effectively killing them. However, as neither Kid nor Law feared her, the attack is rendered ineffective. Using his ability, Law creates an R-ROOM, a Room which attaches to her regardless of where she moves. As a homage to his mentor, Rosinante, he uses Silent, preventing Big Mom from making any sound as long as she remains inside the Room.
Misery attempts to aid Big Mom by attacking Law from behind, but Law uses his sword to slice her in half. Meanwhile, Kid uses a second Damned Punk, sending an even stronger ray which finally sends Big Mom falling into the hole.
Big Mom falls and lands in the armory. She grabs one of the frozen bombs, unaware that they were explosive. The bomb explodes, blasting a second hole in the bottom of the island causing her to fall towards the Wano Country mainland. Yamato is able to block the explosion with a frozen piece of debris, preventing the other bombs from detonating. However, the explosion considerably damaged Kazenbo, causing it to retreat towards Orochi. 
The explosion causes the entire island to crumble. A wounded Zoro, who was resting on the edge of the island, falls off the island as a result of the island crumbling. 
Big Mom is sent falling towards the ground. She notices the Fire Festival celebrations at the nearby Flower Capital, prompting her to reflect on her childhood with Carmel, her failure to defeat Luffy on Whole Cake Island, and finally her involvement in the raid. She curses Gol D. Roger for starting the Golden Age of Piracy, posthumously promoting the proliferation of new, inexperienced rookie pirates. Big Mom falls into the magma chamber, causing a large eruption of lava. Witnessing the fall of one of the Four Emperors, Kid and Law's crewmates cheer over the captains' accomplishment as the two rest from their epic fight with Big Mom. As Momonosuke continues to move Onigashima, he senses that Zunesha had appeared near the island. He deduces that Zunesha was one of the many companions of Joy Boy eight centuries ago. 

Nami's group, accompanied Kid and Law's crew members, celebrate their victory against Big Mom and rest. However, the Live Floor begins to crumble as a result of the explosion, as well as the battle on the Skull Dome. Meanwhile, Franky saves Zoro from falling off the edge of the island, pulling him back onto the island with his extendable arm. 
Zunesha appears at Onigashima to aid the battle, but Momonosuke is unsure of whether to continue the battle. He explains to Yamato that it may not have been Oden's intention to liberate Wano Country if it endangered innocent lives. 
Izou confronts the CP0 agents in the basement. The agents, Guernica and Maha, were willing to ignore him in pursuit of the Straw Hats, but Izou refused to let them pass. After a short battle, Izou was quickly overpowered by the agents, who both utilized Rokushiki to defeat him. However, as Maha fatally strikes Izou in the chest with a Shigan, Izou manages to shoot him down with his pistol, causing them to simultaneously take each other down.
Guernica briefly laments Maha's downfall. He then continues his search for Nico Robin, but he receives an imperial order from the Five Elders. As the World Government saw Luffy as an especially dangerous threat, they order Guernica to interrupt his battle with Kaidou and eliminate him immediately as a precaution. Guernica reluctantly obeys the order, but he is unaware he is being followed by Drake. 
Komurasaki accompanies Orochi in his private chamber as he awaits Fukurokuju's return. Orochi becomes impatient and frustrated, but the ceiling suddenly collapses, crushing him under the rubble. Pressing her advantage, Komurasaki inserts a Seastone nail into Orochi's body, weakening him and preventing him from using his Devil Fruit powers. She plays Orochi's favourite song on her shamisen and reveals that the song was also the favourite of her father, Oden. 
On the Skull Dome, Kaidou notices that Big Mom had been defeated by Kid and Law, and begins to mourn her, reflecting on how they met while serving Rocks' crew. Luffy takes advantage of Kaidou's emotional state and transforms into his Gear Fourth Snakeman form, declaring it his final Gear Fourth. Luffy's punches are too fast for Kaidou to predict and defend against. 

In the connected hallway, Fukurokuju completely catches fire and collapses to the flames. Raizo makes his final remarks to him before he succumbs to his injuries. Jinbe appears and extinguishes the flames using Fish-Man Karate before coming to Raizo's aid.
Meanwhile, Guernica is ambushed by Drake before he could advance to the rooftop, being stabbed by Drake's sword. However, Guernica retaliates, striking down Drake with a single Shigan. He then proceeds to follow his order, proceeding to the rooftop.
On the rooftop, Luffy's Gear Fourth techniques initially succeed against Kaidou, but falter as Kaidou retaliates. Kaidou transforms into his dragon form, swallows Luffy, spits him out in the air, and strikes him with a Bolo Breath, sending him crashing through Onigashima and falling towards the sea. Luffy is forced to transform into his Boundman form to avoid falling into the sea. 
As Luffy's body will only sustain his Gear Fourth form for a limited amount of time, he only has a limited opportunity to defeat Kaidou with the last of his remaining strength. However, as he clashes with Kaidou's intoxicated form, Guernica interrupts the battle, restraining Luffy to give Kaidou an unfair advantage. To his own horror, Kaidou strikes him down, knocking him out.

Taking a critical strike from Kaidou's kanabo, Luffy is defeated, deflating out of his Gear Fourth form and collapsing. Unhappy with being given an unfair advantage, Kaidou directs his rage at Guernica for intervening in the battle. Guernica accepts Kaidou's rage as he is struck down.
Transforming into his dragon form, Kaidou returns to the Live Floor, declares victory against Luffy, and demands the alliance's unconditional surrender. He declares his intentions to continue the New Onigashima Project, moving Onigashima to the Flower Capital and subjecting the remaining citizens of Wano Country to forced labour. 
The remaining allied forces, despite being devastated by news of Luffy's alleged death, refuse to surrender, continuing the battle against the remaining Beasts Pirates. Momonosuke, despite being demoralized after noticing Luffy's voice go silent, also decides not to end his struggle, continuing to move the island away from the capital.
On the rooftop, Luffy's unconscious body suddenly regains a heartbeat. His body undergoes a mysterious transformation. Meanwhile, Zunesha likens Luffy's heartbeat the Drums of Liberation, a sign of Joy Boy's return.

On the top of the Skull Dome, Luffy finishes his transformation, having fully awakened his Devil Fruit power. Meanwhile, the Five Elders at Mary Geoise discuss having sacrificed Guernica in an attempt to stop Luffy. Being particularly concerned with the potency of the Gomu Gomu no Mi, the World Government had been trying for years to attain it, but to no avail, almost as if the fruit were evading them. Despite being officially classed as a Paramecia fruit, it is also a Mythical Zoan fruit; the Hito Hito no Mi, Model: Nika. The user, upon awakening their fruit, becomes the "Sun God" Nika, having the power to manipulate his surroundings like rubber.
Having fully recovered, Luffy emits extremely powerful Haoshoku Haki, which reaches the Beasts Pirates on the Live Floor below. He grabs Kaidou's dragon body and drags it back above the rooftop, beating him upon the rooftop with little resistance. Kaidou fires a Bolo Breath at Luffy, but Luffy blocks the fireball by pulling up on the ground. The fireball bounces off the wall and strikes Kaidou. Despite being unable to hit Luffy, Kaidou expresses relief that Luffy was alive, unhappy with defeating him thanks to Guernica's help.
Meanwhile, in the treasure repository, Orochi attempts to cajole Hiyori into removing his Seastone nail and setting him free. However, following his numerous betrayals and wrongdoings against Kozuki Oden and the people of Wano Country during his reign, Hiyori angrily refuses.
Kazenbo, who had been reduced to a small wisp by the armory explosion, appears, returning to its master. Orochi commands Kazenbo to burn Hiyori alive. However, Kazenbo does not listen, instead setting Orochi aflame as he remains trapped under the rubble.

Kaidou correctly deduces that Luffy had awakened his Paramecia power, which has now become a Zoan ability. In his dragon form, he attempts to swallow Luffy whole, but Luffy beats him from his insides, inflates himself inside his belly, and forcefully launches himself out of his mouth. Kaidou then attempts to strike Luffy with a Bolo Breath, but Luffy is completely unaffected by the attack. At this point, Yamato and Momonosuke travel to the rooftop to investigate the strange battle, discovering Luffy's awakened form.
Luffy fuses himself with the sky, allowing him to grow to a gigantic size. Kaidou strikes Luffy with Warai Jogo Ragnaraku, using his lightning-enhanced Hassaikai to strike Luffy, smashing his head into the rooftop and causing the alliance on the Live Floor below to witness Luffy's awakened form, as Nami, Tama, Chopper, even Law and Kid were shocked seeing the giant head, with Marco surprisingly curious about Luffy's appearance.
Kaidou and Luffy briefly collapse, both too tired to continue to battle. However, the battle quickly resumes, and Luffy transforms back into his awakened form. He strikes Kaidou with a punch which deforms Kaidou's face, launching him into a rock wall. Luffy declares he will become the Pirate King before resuming the battle.

Kaidou laments the damage his crew had taken during the raid, having lost all his top officers and having his castle destroyed by battle. He continues his battle with Luffy on the Skull Dome, and as Luffy launches himself into the air, he gets the idea of utilizing the lightning bolts in the sky.
Below inside the Skull Dome, the allied forces are separated and cornered by the spreading fires. Chopper reunites with Nami and Tama but fail to locate any other allies or combat the fires. Brook, Robin, Apoo, and Number Inbi are trapped in the basement, Sanji and the other women are cornered in the left brain tower, Usopp's group, Franky and Zoro are also trapped in the corridors, and Mink forces are trapped on the third floor. 
On the fourth floor, Raizo and Jinbe carry out a plan to extinguish the flames. Using his Devil Fruit ability, Raizo summons a scroll producing vast quantities of water. Then, using a Fish-Man Karate technique, Jinbe controls the water flow and floods all parts of the Skull Dome, extinguishing the flames and saving the allied forces below.
However, outside Onigashima, Yamato pressures Momonosuke to create Flame Clouds to support the island. As Kaidou's power is rapidly declining, the Flame Clouds he created are weakening and about to collapse. Momonosuke needs to create his own Flame Clouds before this happens, or Onigashima will fall and crash into the mainland.

As the Fire Festival concludes in the Flower Capital below, Momonosuke struggles and fails to produce Flame Clouds to sustain Onigashima. With Kaidou's Flame Clouds sufficiently weakened, the island begins to fall despite Momonosuke's efforts.
Meanwhile, having his Seastone nail removed, Orochi is now able to transform into his Yamata no Orochi form, though he only has one head remaining. He threatens to kill Hiyori for her allegiance with the alliance.
On the Skull Dome's rooftop, Luffy continues his battle against Kaidou, where he utilizes the clouds and lightning, manipulating and merging with the lightning bolts to strike Kaidou. Despite several powerful attacks being levied against him, Kaidou unleashes a series of powerful counterattacks, including Daiitoku Raimei Hakke. With a final attack setting Luffy on fire, Kaidou claims that Haki is more fundamental to combat strength than Devil Fruit abilities, as neither Roger nor Oden ate a Devil Fruit.
Inside the Skull Dome below, the remaining allied forces realize that if Luffy wins the battle, Onigashima would still crash, killing them. Willing to sacrifice their lives to remove Kaidou from power, the allies cheer on Luffy and hope for his victory against Kaidou.
Luffy hears the cheering from the Skull Dome and prepares a final attack against Kaidou, inflating his fist to a size as large as Onigashima itself. Preparing to fulfill his promise of liberating Wano Country, he states that he trusts Momonosuke to protect the Flower Capital.

Momonosuke is tasked with moving Onigashima out of the way of Luffy's final attack. However, he feels he is unable to move the island in time. Also, Kaidou covers himself in flames to protect himself from Luffy's attacks. Luffy decides he will need to utilize Ryuo to defeat him without touching him. They collide head-on, with Luffy attempting to harm Kaidou with his giant, inflated fist.
In the Skull Dome below, allied combatants pray for Luffy's victory against Kaidou, and citizens at the Fire Festival write on Sky Ships their wishes to remove Orochi from power. Orochi usurped the throne through force with Kaidou's help, forcing the citizens of Wano Country into harsh labour. During Orochi's reign, civilians fell into poverty and struggled to feed themselves, being forced to eat defective SMILE fruits or drink polluted water to survive. Remembering this, Momonosuke regains the determination to move Onigashima.
Meanwhile, Orochi prepares to kill Hiyori in his  Yamata no Orochi form. However, Denjiro arrives to her aid, beheading Orochi for the last time and severing his last head.

Kaidou's past is revealed. Being raised in Vodka Kingdom, a kingdom forced to steal from other nations to afford membership in the World Government, he entered the army and became its strongest asset at the age of ten. However, his king sold him against his will to the Marines in order to be able to attend the Levely. 
Kaidou attacked the Marine battleship carrying him, becoming wanted by the World Government. Becoming a wanted fugitive, he would allow himself to get captured by authorities multiple times, eat the food on the battleships, then escape with ease each time. Eventually, he was invited by Edward Newgate into the Rocks Pirates, further contributing to the crew's feared reputation.
However, the Rocks Pirates faced a defeat in God Valley at the hands of Garp, killing Rocks and dismantling the crew. Kaidou formed his own crew, the Beasts Pirates, which occupied Wano Country after forming a coalition with the Kurozumi Family. The Beasts Pirates sought to abolish the World Government's nobility system and create a world where prestige was determined by war.
In the present day, the allied forces in the Skull Dome work together to survive the flood created by Raizo. Meanwhile, with increased determination, Momonosuke successfully creates his own Flame Clouds, using them to move Onigashima away from the Flower Capital.
In one final clash, Kaidou asks Luffy what world he wanted to create. Luffy responds by claiming he would create a world where people could eat as they please. He breaks through Kaidou's flame coating, then strikes a Ryuo-infused punch at him, knocking him out and sending him falling below. As his unconscious body falls into an abyss, Luffy and Momonosuke both rest, having succeeded in their tasks. Kaidou remembers a previous conversation he had with King, where he claimed that Joy Boy himself would defeat him. 

As Luffy falls asleep and lands on the Skull Dome rooftop, Onigashima lands safely near the Flower Capital. With the Raid on Onigashima ending in Kaidou's defeat, Nekomamushi declares the prophecy fulfilled and Oden avenged. Allied forces in the Skull Dome celebrate their victory, Chopper and Miyagi tend to their wounds, and Yamato pressures remaining Beasts Pirates to forfeit. Momonosuke states to Zunesha that he will not open borders of Wano Country, instead personally protecting it from external threat.
In the Flower Capital, Tenguyama explains Yasuie's past to Toko. When a desperately-starving Toko ate a SMILE fruit and suffered from its permanent effects, Yasuie decided to eat the fruit as well so she would not have to suffer alone. In honour of her father's sacrifices to make the raid possible, Toko edits her Sky Ship to thank Yasuie. 
Refusing to believe they lost, The Beasts Pirates attempted to continue the battle, only for Yamato to reveal that it was thanks to Momonosuke that he carefully placed Onigashima away from the Flower Captial and threaten to beat them if they do not stop.
An unconscious Kaidou reverts back into his human form as he falls underground. Falling into the same magma chamber as Big Mom, the impact triggers a volcanic eruption, filling the sky with ash. Momonosuke along with the Nine Red Scabbards return to the Flower Capital to calm the panicked townspeople, as well as announce their victory and new shogunate.

In the Flower Capital, Kyoshiro, revealing himself to be Denjiro, announces the return of the Nine Red Scabbards. In his human form, Momonosuke announces his victory in Onigashima and the defeat of the Kaidou and the Kurozumi Family. As his announcement is broadcasted to the other regions of the country, Momonosuke declares his intentions to abolish slavery and end the mass poverty caused by Orochi's reign. The townspeople celebrate the return of the Kozuki Family, and Momonosuke vows to follow his father's footsteps.
As he speaks, Tama remembers her childhood. Following her parents' tragic deaths, Tama was left an orphan with Komachiyo. She was forced to sell hats to survive, often without success and going hungry. She was adopted by Tenguyama, who told her about the prophecy of the Kozuki Family's return. In the present day, Tama asks Speed to become her adoptive mother, to which she agrees. 
In the Skull Dome, as Chopper continues to tend to the wounded combatants, Yamato introduces himself to the Straw Hat Pirates as Kaidou's son, and asks to join the crew. Despite generally being in favour of admitting him, they choose not to act without Luffy's permission. 

In Mary Geoise, the Five Elders learn of the defeat of two Emperors, as well as the liberation of Wano Country. They recognize the return of Nika in the form of Luffy. They order a remaining CP0 agent to capture Robin, but their Den Den Mushi transmission is hijacked. 
Morning arrives in Wano Country and its citizens continue to celebrate their liberation from Orochi. Schoolchildren are retaught the country's history through the lens of Oden, and the Nine Red Scabbards make plans to construct a temple for Oden and bury Yasuie, Ashura and Izou in Ringo. When Luffy and Zoro awaken, they celebrate with members of the alliance in the bathhouse. 
However, Drake and Hawkins, both gravely injured during the raid, have a brief conversation before the latter succumbs to his injuries. In Tokage Port, Kid and Law are informed by Apoo of their updated bounties and the new Four Emperors now that Kaidou and Big Mom have fallen. Meanwhile, Marine Admiral Ryokugyu approaches Wano Country, having been sent by Sakazuki. 

The Straw Hat Pirates visit the Flower Capital to join the extended Fire Festival and banquet, where they participate in its activities. Momonosuke remembers Luffy's instructions to him, telling him not to reveal his involvement in the raid. 
Meanwhile, Robin locates the country's Poneglyph, where she is met by Tenguyama. Tenguyama reveals himself to be Kozuki Sukiyaki, Oden's father. Sukiyaki was imprisoned by the Kurozumi Family following Oden's execution. Sukiyaki escaped many years later, but upon seeing the way Orochi transformed the country, he went into hiding. In the present day, Sukiyaki also confirms to Robin that the ancient weapon Pluton was indeed located within the country. 
News of Big Mom and Kaidou's defeat spread internationally, but the Five Elders attempt to censor Luffy's wanted poster depicting him as Nika. Despite their efforts, they are unable to contact the printing companies and the uncensored image is shown to the public. The new bounties of Luffy, Law and Kid are announced, each being given a bounty of three billion Bellies. In addition to this, Luffy and Buggy are selected to replace Big Mom and Kaidou as two of the Four Emperors. Upon receiving these news, Kid interrupts Luffy at the festival and attempts to kill him.
In the former Udon Prisoner Mine, defeated Beasts Pirates, including King and Queen, bandage their wounds, but are visited by Ryokugyu. After instigating a battle, King and Queen are both defeated by Ryokugyu's Devil Fruit ability, allowing him to manipulate vines which pierce and dehydrate his targets. Ryokugyu orders their arrest before heading to the Flower Capital to pursue Luffy. 

As the Red Hair Pirates approach the borders of Wano Country, Shanks remembers his experiences with Luffy, having stolen the Gomu Gomu no Mi from a CP9 ship only for it to be eaten by Luffy. He also remembers that Bartolomeo burned a Red Hair Pirates jolly roger on Shanks' territory and replaced it with that of the Straw Hat Pirates. Everyone except Yasopp, who is afraid to face Usopp, wants to see Luffy again after so long. But Shanks decides not to meet Luffy in Wano Country, advancing towards the country in search of the One Piece.
In Marine Headquarters, Sakazuki holds a meeting with Kizaru and Criminal Investigative Service director Kurouma regarding the Revolutionary Army's invasion of Mary Geoise, which led to the assassination of Nefertari Cobra, the disappearance of Vivi, and the freeing of Bartholomew Kuma from slavery. With the successful attack on the World Government, Sabo gained worldwide support among rebels for his rebellion efforts, now dubbed the "Flame Emperor". At the end of the meeting, Sakazuki laments about the era in which he lived in, but vows to destroy all opposition to the World Government. 
Meanwhile, as Ryokugyu approaches the Flower Capital, the Nine Red Scabbards detect his presence and confront him. Using Kinniku Mori Mori, Ryokugyu uses his Devil Fruit to transform into a wooden golem, repelling all the samurai's attacks. Yamato and Momonosuke arrives to their aid, but they are also both overwhelmed.

As the Straw Hat Pirates and Heart Pirates continue to participate in the Flower Capital's various festivities, Sukiyaki directs Robin and Law to a passage leading underground. The passage leads deep into the sea, showing an ancient lost civilization on the sea floor. The predecessor to the current Wano Country, the civilization was flooded by rainwater eight centuries prior after they erected boundary walls around the country. Sukiyaki shows Robin and Law to the Road Poneglyph at the bottom of the staircase, and reveals that Pluton is even further underground, but the only way to reveal it would be to open the country's borders by destroying the physical boundary walls.
In the outskirts of the Flower Capital, the Nine Red Scabbards continue their battle against Ryokugyu, but are overwhelmed by his ability. Momonosuke orders Yamato not to participate in the combat, but becomes cornered by Ryokugyu's vines. Remembering Luffy, he successfully manages to breath fire in a similar manner to Kaidou's Bolo Breath, destroying Ryokugyu's wooden golem form and forcing him to revert to his human form.
At that moment, Shanks, a short distance from the coast, sends a powerful wave of Haoshoku Haki at Ryokugyu from a distance, overwhelming him. Submitting to Shanks' Haki, Ryokugyu agrees to retreat, just as the Red Hair Pirates' ship also departs from the country.

Kin'emon and Kikunojo visit Raizo and Shinobu, in critical condition due to dehydration inflicted by Ryokugyu. Sukiyaki then reveals his identity to Momonosuke, Hiyori, and the other Nine Red Scabbards, where he apologizes for going into hiding following Oden's death. Meanwhile, Carrot meets with the Minks privately; Inuarashi and Nekomamushi have decided to remain in Wano Country to defend the shogun, so they entrust the Mokomo Dukedom to Carrot. Despite Carrot trying to refuse the role, the two reminded her that she possesses the same will that Pedro once had.
Robin reports her findings regarding Pluton to the Straw Hat Pirates. Despite knowing the weapon is located in the country, Luffy decides not to attempt to uncover the weapon. Momonosuke and Kin'emon attempt to meet with them, but discover that the Straw Hat Pirates have all already left the castle. They meet with Yamato, who vows to live in Oden's footsteps.
The Straw Hat Pirates, Heart Pirates and Kid Pirates all prepare to depart the country via Tokage Port. After briefly arguing about their next direction, Kid presents a poster to Luffy. The poster reveals that Emperor Buggy has joined forces with Mihawk and Crocodile to form the Cross Guild, an organization which assigns bounties to Marines, now placing Marine soldiers under threat of civilian bounty hunters.

Luffy and the Nine Red Scabbards visit the mountain where Kuri Castle once stood. Paying respects to Oden, they vow to return Wano Country to its state before it was taken over by the Kurozumi Family. They bid farewell to the Straw Hat Pirates as they prepare for their departure from the country, and Carrot also says her goodbyes, also leaving towards Mokomo Dukedom. 
Meanwhile, Zoro visits the Pedro and Yasuie's graves with alcohol, where he is joined by Toko and Hiyori. Zoro vows to increase his strength to fully master Enma as Oden has. At Tokage Port, Franky requests Minatomo's help in repairing the Thousand Sunny, but finds the ship to be in perfect condition. In the Flower Capital, Usopp purchases cloth and Sanji sells out his remaining Special Soba, being visited by Some and Chuji. 
As Okobore Town is being rebuilt, Luffy visits Tsurujo's tea house for oshiruko, bidding goodbyes to Tama. At Tokage Port, the Straw Hat Pirates prepare to make their departure, waiting for Momonosuke and Kin'emon to appear. 

Wano Country starts to thrive after Orochi is deposed and Kaidou is defeated. The tale of the Raid on Onigashima is narrated on stage in front of an audience.
Elsewhere, Momonosuke, Kin'emon, and Yamato rush towards Tokage Port to catch up to the Straw Hat Pirates. On the way, Yamato tells Momonosuke that he will be staying in Wano instead of going with Luffy because he wants to do as Oden did and travel across Wano before setting out into the world.
Meanwhile, Momonosuke feels betrayed that Luffy would leave him behind before even saying farewell, despite all the adventures they went through together. Kin'emon also feels slighted by the Straw Hats' actions.
At the Tokage Port, Luffy parts ways with Law and Kid and they say their not-so-friendly farewells. The Kid Pirates and Heart Pirates sail towards their agreed destinations.
Before the Straw Hats can follow them, Momonosuke arrives at the beach, running. The young shogun expresses how hurt he is that the Straw Hats were leaving without saying their goodbyes. He bursts into tears, begging them not to go. Luffy hands him a Straw Hat Jolly Roger as a sign of their friendship and to remind him of their time together. He tells Momonosuke that he will always think of him as his brother. He adds that if Momonosuke, Kin'emon, and Yamato ever decided to become pirates, he'll come back and pick them up anytime.
The Straw Hats finally set sail and head to Hakumai, Wano's official port that has a lift to lower ships, which is a much safer alternative than going through the waterfalls they previously went through when they arrived at Wano. Kid makes fun of Luffy and Law for using the official port-a much safer option, which is uncharacteristic of a pirate. Law and Luffy are irked by Kid's remarks and take the provocation as a challenge and head towards the waterfalls instead.
Meanwhile, the tale of the Raid on Onigashima continues and the fate of Orochi Kurozumi is revealed to the audience. Hiyori's final words to the former shogun as he burned to death were told before them: "Black charcoal would not be called kurozumi if it wasn't burned!"
As Momonosuke heads back to the Flower Capital, he contemplates where to fly the Straw Hats' flag.

As the Straw Hats leave Wano, Nami is enraged with Luffy who decided to descend Wano through the waterfalls instead of the official port. A little while later, Robin buys a newspaper from a News Coo and remarks that their new bounties have been released.
With Luffy now being one of the new Four Emperors, he is referred to as the Senior Captain of the Straw Hat Grand Fleet and his crewmen its Senior Officers. Their bounties have all increased as follows:
Meanwhile, Crocodile and Mihawk arrive on Karai Bari Island, Buggy's Delivery's hideout. Buggy begs for his life for the misunderstanding which portrayed Crocodile and Mihawk as his subordinates, causing the World Government to declare him one of the Four Emperors. This is despite the fact that Crocodile and Mihawk were the ones who established Cross Guild. According to them, the word "humiliation" is not enough to describe the situation, so they must kill the clown.
In a flashback, it is shown how Mihawk and Crocodile agreed to team up following the dissolution of the Warlord system during the recent Levely. The dissolution stripped Mihawk of his immunity and reverted him to his status as a pirate and fugitive of the law. They arrived on Karai Bari Island which was surrounded by a fleet of Marines that was bombarding Buggy's Delivery hideout with artillery fire. Mihawk and Crocodile sink the Marine ships and get rid of the Marine forces. This act caused Buggy's underlings to mistakenly think that Crocodile and Mihawk were there as Buggy's henchmen saving their supposed boss. In truth, they were there to collect a debt Buggy owed Crocodile because they needed money to fund their newly-established company. Buggy was unable to pay, so he instead offered up his services to work off his debt. He offered manpower, advertising, and transportation services to the two, which they accepted.
Back in the present, Crocodile shows Buggy the flyers the latter distributed for Cross Guild which showed him at the center of the poster, his picture larger than that of Crocodile's and Mihawk's, implying that he was their boss. This was caused by Buggy's passionate underlings who revered him as their great and powerful leader. The poster reached the Marines who saw Buggy as a threat, being that he was once a part of Roger's crew, much like Shanks. The Marines also thought that Mihawk and Crocodile came to his aid that day. With the increasing influence Cross Guild built around the world, they put out new bounties for the three. Crocodile's bounty was increased to 1,965,000,000, Mihawk's bounty was increased to 3,590,000,000, and Buggy's bounty was increased to 3,189,000,000 as their supposed leader and new Emperor of the Sea.
After a while, Mihawk relents and thinks that it is not a bad idea to have Buggy as their figurehead. He has no plans of becoming an Emperor himself as he would rather live a peaceful life. Crocodile finally agrees after seeing the merits. Buggy then addresses everyone in the hideout as the new figurehead of the Cross Guild. He introduces Mihawk and Crocodile as the guild's new Chief Officers.

Marco is dropped off near Sphinx Island by the Red Hair Pirates. He thanks Shanks for letting him hitch a ride before he flies towards the island.
In a flashback on Wano Country, Marco saw Yamato tell Luffy and the others his reason why he would not be joining the Straw Hats just yet because he wanted to stay and protect Wano. After the incident with Aramaki, Yamato was certain that more powerful people would be targeting Wano, especially now that Kaidou no longer ruled over the land. Luffy accepted his reasons and told Yamato that if he stayed, he would not have to worry about Momonosuke and the others. With that, Marco flew over the group to tell them that he was going to hitch a ride out of Wano. They said their farewells after Luffy thanked him for saving his life back during the Summit War of Marineford.
Back to the present on Amazon Lily, Gloriosa laments at how the island was invaded by men with part of its mountain cut down and its town heavily damaged. A bandaged Boa Hancock tells her that so long as she stays on the island, the Marines will come back, especially with the Warlord system abolished.
A few weeks ago, the island was under attack by a fleet of Marines that rained artillery fire onto the island's gates. They were met with haki-coated arrows by the Kujas. After this counterattack, Koby ordered the deployment of the new Pacifistas, the Seraphim, to the battlefront. Two of these winged Pacifistas with fire on their backs appear. The Marines docked on the island and Sweet Pea ran towards them to stop them from advancing. However, she was slapped away by one of the Seraphims. The Kujas were shocked that what seemed like a child could possess such strength and upon taking a closer look, the said child looked so much like a younger Hancock.
A while later, the Blackbeard Pirates also arrived on the island, with Blackbeard sending a Seaquake towards the Marines' ships. Blackbeard, together with Vasco Shot and Catarina Devon, walked towards town with the intention of obtaining Hancock's Devil Fruit. The Marines attacked them on their way to town, but Blackbeard easily neutralized them using his Blackhole powers. They encountered the second Seraphim who resembled a younger Mihawk. Blackbeard noticed the Seraphim's white hair, brown skin, and black wings and drew a conclusion about what it was.
The Seraphim lunged at Blackbeard with his sword, but Blackbeard dodged the attack. The Seraphim once again attacked Blackbeard who blocked it with Busoshoku Haki but the attack still sent the Emperor flying. This move sliced off a large portion of the island's central mountain. However, despite the magnitude of the attack, Blackbeard remained unscathed, although very annoyed and somewhat flustered to find out that the Seraphim was a Pacifista. The Seraphim tried slashing him again while some Marines arrived at the scene. Seeing this, Blackbeard used Blackhole which caused the Seraphim to jump away to avoid being sucked into the void like the nearby buildings and the Marines.
Meanwhile at the palace, Hancock, who had previously refused to heed Koby's demands to surrender, walked out to the balcony. She flipped her hair and showed off with her beauty which made the hearts of the Marines and the Blackbeard Pirates flutter. This allowed her to use Slave Arrow and turn most of them into stone. The Pacifistas tried to attack Hancock, but their attacks destroyed those who were petrified so Koby, who was unaffected by Hancock's powers, ordered them to stop. Hancock spotted Koby in the crowd and tried to kick him. However, before she could land her attack, she was caught midair by Blackbeard who used Black Vortex.
Hancock, whose powers were nullified by Blackbeard's darkness, demanded that he unhand her. Blackbeard commended her for turning his subordinates into stone, saying that she wasn't the Pirate Empress for nothing. Blackbeard expressed his desire to obtain her Devil Fruit, but she told him that her powers were nothing without her beauty. She added that if he killed her, his people would remain petrified, and the next user would be unable to undo the petrification.

Joined by Rayleigh and Shakuyaku, Hancock and the Kuja Pirates reflect on how they repelled the Marines and the Blackbeard Pirates invasion of Amazon Lily. After being subdued by Blackbeard, Hancock attempted to form a peace deal with him, agreeing to reverse the petrification done on his pirates if they retreated. However, Blackbeard doggedly refuses, attempting to kill her under the belief that Boa Hancock was going to petrify everyone the moment she was no longer under the effect of the Yami Yami no Mi. 
However, Rayleigh appears on the island and intervenes, intimidating Blackbeard into submission with Haoshoku Haki. Rayleigh oversees the deal, forcing both the Marines and Blackbeard Pirates to leave. However, it is revealed that Koby was kidnapped by Blackbeard shortly after their departure. In the present day, the Kuja Pirates fear the Marines' Seraphims, who left the conflict without taking any damage. They also note that one of the Seraphim bears a striking resemblance to Hancock in her childhood.
In the Kamabakka Kingdom, members of the Revolutionary Army worry about Sabo's safety after being blamed by newspapers for the assassination of King Nefertari Cobra and Vivi's kidnapping. However, they receive a call on a Den Den Mushi from Sabo, confirming he is alive. Meanwhile, on the Thousand Sunny, the Straw Hat Pirates mourn Cobra's death and express concern for Vivi's safety, but they doubt Sabo's involvement given that the Revolutionary Army has never targeted a monarch. Although most members intend to rescue Vivi, Zoro opposes the idea, stating that it is still too early to act, and Vivi must fend for herself at the moment.
Resting on the ship deck, Luffy reflects on the brotherhood oath he made with Ace and Sabo. He then reveals to his crew his members the end of his dream, an ambition even larger than becoming the Pirate King. Though it is not revealed, each of the Straw Hats react with bafflement, with Usopp believing Luffy's dream to be impossible while Franky and Chopper were amazed and supported the idea.

The Straw Hats are en route to the next island, reflecting on Luffy's dream to become the King of the Pirates. The crew needs the elusive last Road Poneglyph, but Robin warns that finding it is exceptionally challenging due to the absence of any clues leading to it.
Simultaneously, the Marines intercept Sabo's call to the Revolutionary Army at the Kamabakka Kingdom. The Five Elders at Mary Geoise learn of Sabo's location at Lulusia, a kingdom in upheaval during the Levely. Sabo contacts the Revolutionary Army, reassuring them he did not assassinate King Cobra, contrary to the news reports circulating. When he is about to tell them what he actually witnessed that day at the Empty Throne inside the Pangaea Castle, one of the Five Elders orders the Marines' Communication Department to cut off communications and to forget that they ever traced or heard Sabo's call.
Elsewhere, Imu crosses off Lulusia on a map. The sky over Lulusia darkens and starts glowing with an eerie green light. Suddenly, rays of red light come raining down on the island, destroying everything and everyone they hit. Sabo's call to the Revolutionary Army is abruptly cut off. In a matter of seconds, the island is obliterated, resulting in a huge seaquake originating from where the island used to be.
A few days later, the Straw Hats enter the climate range of a harsh winter island nearby, encountering a massive Warm Eddy. Luffy spots someone inside the water column so Zoro cuts the water in half to rescue her. Chopper emerges from inside the cabins to investigate the commotion outside, but he is swept away by the strong wind. Luffy, swept away by the wind along with Chopper, manages to rescue both the reindeer and the girl, grabbing hold of her while airborne. The girl starts screaming to those on the ship to warn them of what's lurking below the waters. Usopp senses two glowing eyes and tells everyone to run. The two glowing eyes belong to a giant shark, threatening to devour their ship.

Luffy, Chopper and the young girl are struggling with wind, while the shark tries to eat the Sunny by spreading its jaws. But, with Jinbe in the helm, they overcame the danger. The shark was revealed to be made of iron and too big for an ordinary shark. Jinbe notices the three to fall in the sea and orders Franky to take the helm. He uses "Rabbit Screw" to overcome the speed of the shark, and save the others from water.
Jinbe struggles against the strong water currents but holds the three after sometime. On the other side, the shark attacks the Sunny by using torpedoes and rolled the ship. The rest of the crew boarded on the ship started sinking with the ship.
When Jinbe and the others resurfaced on water, the shark tries to attack them, but failed as Jinbe told them to take deep breath as they would escape to the sea bottom. On the other side, the rest of the Straw Hats were saved by a giant robot who attacked the shark.
The scene shifts to the G-14 branch of Marines where Tashigi is saying the children to drink the medicine prepared for them to reverse their mutated growth. Mocha thanks Tashigi saying that she feels a lot smaller, a little more left to return to normal. She wishes to return home and meet the Straw Hats later.
Tashigi was called by Doll concerning Helmeppo's request to save Koby. When Helmeppo and Hibari requests Prince Grus for help to rescue Koby from the pirates' captive from Hachinosu, he suggests to take the Seraphims from Egghead since the island was close. Grus reminded them of the dangers they have to face taking the risk to save Koby then.
Meanwhile, Luffy, Chopper, Jinbe and the girl (who is not a child any longer, but an adult) were on the shore of an island, where the girl revealed herself to be Jewelry Bonney. She asks Luffy about his form and hair on his latest wanted poster, which he replied goofily. Seeing that, she thinks again if he really is an emperor any why Jinbe is with them. When they felt hungry, Luffy suggested to look for a restaurant which was turned down by Bonney saying there is not any, since it was a Government island and its name is Egghead. It is the place where Vegapunk lives. Luffy realizes he heard the name before and Bonney tells them, she has a business with Vegapunk.
Above the surface, a girl came out of the robot. She was thanked by Franky for saving them, while she revealed the Mecha-shark had some programming problems and she had no intentions of saving the pirates. She revealed herself to be world-famous scientist "Dr. Vegapunk", much to the crew's surprise. 

The woman identifies herself as Lilith, one of Vegapunk's satellites. Representing Vegapunk's "evil," Lilith attempts to rob the Thousand Sunny, surrounding the ship with Sea Beast Weapons, mechanical Sea Beasts similar to the shark. However, she is stopped by Shaka, Vegapunk's "good," who identifies Zoro and Robin, two infamous bounty heads, among the crew. Shaka orders Lilith to bring the Straw Hats to him.
Meanwhile, Bonney, Luffy, Jinbe and Chopper explore Egghead, where Bonney threatens to kill Vegapunk for turning her father into a cyborg. However, they watch Egghead's various holograms, including a fighting robot and giant parfait. Luffy attempts to interact with them but are unable to, as they are simply projections. However, they are confronted by another satellite, Atlas.
Atlas shows Bonney, Chopper and Luffy an automated food-making machine. Showing off her inventions, she laments that the world lacks the resources and funding to mass produce her inventions. In a fit of rage, she punches a hologram. She reveals that she wears light-pressure gloves which allow her to touch holograms. While they enjoy the food the machine produces, they are shocked to hear that Atlas is Vegapunk.

Somewhere in the New World, CP0 agents discuss about Dr. Vegapunk's brilliance and how he split himself into six satellite bodies. It is revealed that their missions are to return a Seraphim resembling Bartholomew Kuma back to Egghead, and to eliminate Dr. Vegapunk and his satellites. Lucci ponders a potential connection between their mission and Lulusia's fate, but Kaku and Stussy hesitate to delve deeper on the subject as they might face similar repercussions.
On Egghead, Luffy's group parts ways with Atlas, one of Vegapunk's satellites. They notice the island's inhabitants wearing distinct clothing and discover the machine responsible, using it to change their attire. Bonney bids Luffy's group farewell, intending to look for Vegapunk. Just as she is about to leave, Luffy senses the presence of who he thinks is Kuma nearby. This Kuma, wearing a police uniform, starts scanning for intruders. Seeing this, Luffy instructs everybody to run away, much to Bonney's confusion. Kuma aims his laser towards the fugitives, which they barely dodge. Bonney freezes at the sight of the assailant while Luffy charges at him. After a short while, Bonney comes to her senses and starts running towards Luffy, kicking him in the head. She demands for him to stop and tearfully reveals that Kuma is her father.
Kuma is relentless in his pursuit and shoots his laser at Bonney, but she does not make any attempts to move away. Luffy runs to save her, explaining that the Kuma before her is actually a Pacifista. With the laser shot directly at them, the two are seemingly unable to evade, and a huge explosion occurs.
Elsewhere, the Heart Pirates are peacefully sailing in the New World, when they are ambushed by the Blackbeard Pirates.

Following an assault from the Blackbeard Pirates, the Heart Pirates' Polar Tang plunges into the sea in an attempt to flee. However, Blackbeard persistently targets their ship, pushing it to the brink. Recognizing the dire situation, Law decides to make for the nearest island.
While Law continues to issue orders to his crew, they are shocked to see that he has transformed into a woman. Moments later, the other crew members also undergo this transformation, which Law attributes to an infectious disease. However, drawing from his experiences battling the Emperors of the Sea, he manages to overcome the disease and nullify the effects of the Devil Fruit causing it by surging an overabundance of Haki.
As the Heart Pirates dock on the island, Doc Q commends Law for curing the Feminization Disease that had afflicted the entire crew using his newly acquired Shiku Shiku no Mi. Van Augur and Burgess, who have also recently acquired the Wapu Wapu no Mi and the Riki Riki no Mi, respectively, warp to the island. Burgess lifts an entire mountain and hurls it toward the Heart Pirates. Law deduces that the reason why the Blackbeard Pirates' bounties keep going up is because they obtained their new Devil Fruits by hunting down other power-users. Using ROOM and Amputate, Law slices the mountain into pieces.
From a distance, Blackbeard observes the conflict, reveling in the confrontation. Anticipating Law, Luffy, or Kid's arrival after departing Wano Country, Blackbeard greets Law and reveals his aim to seize their Road Poneglyphs. Law smirks and accepts Blackbeard's challenge, declaring that the winner takes all.
Law orders his crew to head to sea while he confronts Blackbeard. He uses R-ROOM, covering a large area, and then uses Amputate on Stronger, slicing his body in two, causing Blackbeard and Doc Q to fall from his back. As they fall, Blackbeard employs Gurash, destroying the ground beneath the Heart Pirates. Meanwhile, Doc Q hurls his basket of exploding apples toward the Heart Pirates, but Shachi swiftly gathers and expels a large amount of water from his mouth, intercepting the apples mid-air. Subsequently, Shachi and Penguin dive into the sea to target their enemy's ship.
On the island, Van Augur prepares to shoot Law, but Bepo senses the danger and directs Jean Bart to shield their captain. Van Augur fires, but Jean Bart absorbs the impact, the bullet failing to penetrate his flesh. Law employs K-ROOM, impaling Blackbeard with his sword, and follows up with Shock Wille, dealing significant damage. Van Augur clicks his tongue disapprovingly, remarking that their situation is a result of charging in without a concrete plan. He then warps near Blackbeard, who is still descending, and offers to return to their ship. However, Blackbeard chuckles and expresses his desire to continue the confrontation. With this, Van Augur teleports Blackbeard in front of Law. Law mocks Blackbeard for having his top officers become power-users and highlights their vulnerability to the sea. Blackbeard dismisses the weakness, arguing that their advantages outweigh any such vulnerabilities.
Inside the Blackbeard Pirates' ship, the crew remains composed, confident in their captain's strength despite the relentless assault by the Heart Pirates. Meanwhile, in a holding cell, Pudding is revealed to be a prisoner, abducted by Kuzan and Van Augur from Whole Cake Island. At the same time at the Marine Headquarters, news of Law and Blackbeard's clash reaches the Marines, prompting Sakazuki to reluctantly order his men to stand down and await the outcome of their battle.
Back on the island, Blackbeard admires Law's Devil Fruit abilities as Law uses K-ROOM and attempts to strike Blackbeard. However, Blackbeard blocks the attack with his right fist before using his left hand to unleash Kurouzu, enveloping Law in darkness.

Bonney, Luffy, Chopper, and Jinbe continue to run from the Pacifista; cornered, they have no choice but to begin fighting back. However, Bonney uses her Devil Fruit powers to transform herself and Jinbe into children and Luffy and Chopper into elderly people. Changing their appearance makes the Pacifista fail to recognize them, and it walks away. 
Jinbe explains what he has been told about Kuma; being a tyrannical king of the Sorbet Kingdom, he was soon deposed by his own people and became a pirate and officer of the Revolutionary Army. He was eventually arrested by the Marines and sentenced to life in prison, but was offered freedom as one of the Seven Warlords, and in exchange was subjected to experimental human augmentation and turned into a cyborg by Vegapunk. Upon being told this, Bonney doggedly denies that Kuma willingly submitted to the World Government, insisting that he was turned into a cyborg against his will. 
Meanwhile, Lilith brings the remaining Straw Hat Pirates to the above-cloud portion of Egghead, the Labophase. While Zoro, Brook and Caribou remain in the docked Thousand Sunny, Nami, Usopp, Robin, Franky and Sanji follow Lilith to an outfitter where they change their clothes, then they enter the lab. Amazed by the escalator as well as the doors they can walk through, they are directed by another satellite, Edison, through the laboratory. However, they encounter a Seraphim, which resembles Jinbe, but has wings.
In a different hallway, Vegapunk's first satellite, Shaka, contacts Dragon via Den Den Mushi, where he prophecizes his own death.

Sanji's group is attacked by Jinbe's clone, and they realize that Lilith lured them into a trap. The Seraphim, named S-Shark, is capable of Fish-Man Karate, firing lasers from his hand like a Pacifista, and also possesses the abilities of the Sui Sui no Mi. Sanji, Robin, and Usopp each unleash their attacks against S-Shark, each failing to inflict any damage to it. Meanwhile, it is revealed that Lilith is manipulating S-Shark in the control room along with two other satellites, Edison (representing thinking) and Pythagoras (representing wisdom). 
In the control room, Edison controls S-Shark during an experiment to help it evolve and grow. He decides to stop controlling S-Shark to write down his new ideas for inventions, leaving the task to Pythagoras. However, they, along with Atlas, express hunger, so they rely on York, the satellite representing greed, to eat on their behalf. York eats a copious amount of food, defecates in a nearby bathroom, and goes back to sleep. His hunger satiated, Pythagoras controls the Straw Hats' shoes, moving them in the path of S-Shark's laser and holding them in place. 
Against the wishes of Lilith, Edison and Pythagoras, Shaka decides to intervene in the battle. Deciding he had gathered enough data, he enters the battlefield and orders S-Shark to retreat. Now safe, the Straw Hats speak with Shaka, who introduces himself as another Vegapunk. Shaka reveals that, while dubbed the "island of the future," Egghead is really from the past, as there existed an analogous island nine centuries prior.
Meanwhile, Luffy, Jinbe, Chopper and Bonney explore the Fabiriophase scrapyard. They discover a giant robot in the scrapyard, dormant and abandoned. Jinbe notes that while the robot would have required very advanced and modern technology, it appears very old.

Shaka speaks with Sanji's group about his theory surrounding the advanced ancient kingdom, based on the archaeological findings near the island. Shaka's theory suggests that the kingdom was one of the central figures of the Void Century, having been destroyed by the twenty kingdoms that later formed the World Government. To erase all traces of the kingdom and its ideas from history, the World Government outlawed all study of the time period, creating a century-long gap in recorded history.
Shaka connects this event to the Ohara Incident, suggesting that the Buster Call was ordered on Ohara because the scholars attempted to study the Void Century. Knowing Clover, Shaka visited the destroyed island to pay tributes, but discovered books discarded in a lake. This suggests that the scholars sacrificed their lives to throw the books out of the burning Tree of Knowledge, saving the writings from being destroyed. In addition, Olvia insisted that Robin escape Ohara alive so their knowledge would not be lost. 
Seeing the dedication of the Ohara scholars to preserve the writings of the past, Robin begins to cry. Concluding his story, Shaka states that he had the books excavated out of the lake, but encountered an unknown person.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Chopper examine the robot in the Fabiriophase junkyard, and attempt to locate its cockpit to ride it, after which they try in vain to activate it. Though they fail to activate it, they are knocked back by an explosion-like force. They discover that an unknown old man has attempted to warp to the location, having warped halfway inside the robot where he is now stuck. After Luffy pulls the man out, Bonney recognizes him as the original Dr. Vegapunk, leading scientist of the SSG. Recognizing Luffy, Vegapunk teaches him how to use his DOM boots, which allow him to hover in midair.

Shaka continues explaining his visit to Ohara. When Vegapunk visited the island to pay respects, he discovered giants fishing the books out of the lake. Though Vegapunk was initially concerned with the giants' intentions, Monkey D. Dragon appeared and explained that the giants intended to transport the books to Elbaf to withhold them from the World Government. Vegapunk then travelled to Elbaf to read the books, gaining knowledge from the scholars that the World Government attempted to suppress. The Ohara Incident also led Dragon, a friend of Clover, to later form the Revolutionary Army, joining forces with Emporio Ivankov and Bartholomew Kuma. Finishing his story, Shaka confirms to Robin that the leader of the giants was Saul, the same person who saved Robin from the Buster Call. Shaka then leads the Straw Hats to the security room.
Meanwhile, Luffy's group questions Vegapunk, who is known for his balloon-like head but currently wears only an apple-shaped cap in its place. Vegapunk explains he ate the Nomi Nomi no Mi, making him a "Brain Human" and allowing him to absorb nigh-infinite amounts of knowledge. However, as he learned more, his brain grew as a result, becoming inefficiently large. So, he detached his brain and replaced it with an antenna. The still-expanding brain, dubbed the "Punk Records," is the giant egg floating above the island, and remotely connects to Vegapunk's body via the antenna. Furthermore, Vegapunk split his personality into six different satellites (Shaka, Lilith, Edison, Pythagoras, Atlas and York), which use the same brain but serve different purposes.
Bonney suddenly attacks Vegapunk, wielding a beam saber and demanding justice for her father. However, the beam's light attracts a swarm of insects, which causes Bonney to faint in shock as Shaka's group watches via surveillance footage. Vegapunk deems the saber a failed invention for its tendency to attract such insects.
Vegapunk explains that Momonosuke's Devil Fruit was also a failed experiment. He created an artificial Devil Fruit intended to replicate Kaidou's Uo Uo no Mi, Model: Seiryu, which was later accidentally eaten by Momonosuke. Despite granting all the abilities the original fruit provided, the fruit was deemed a failure based on colour alone, as the eater became a pink dragon instead of an azure one.
Luffy questions Vegapunk about the robot, but Vegapunk explains that the legendary Iron Giant is not one of his inventions. Instead, it was created two hundred years prior and attacked Mary Geoise.
In the distance, a masked assassin accompanied by a pigeon approaches Egghead, tasked with eliminating Vegapunk.

Luffy's group continues to question Vegapunk about the Iron Giant. According to legend, the robot climbed the Red Line and attacked Mary Geoise, but ran out of power and stopped working before it could inflict any damage. The inactive robot has since been kept in the scrapyard, though the World Government is unaware it is there and seeks to destroy it. Shaka, who listens to their conversation, adds that he based the Vegaforce-01 on the Iron Giant, but could not replicate its power source, which remains unknown. 
In the distance, a World Government ship carrying CP0 agents approaches Egghead. The ship's commander, assassin Rob Lucci, demands entry into the ports, and when denied, he orders his subordinates to fire their cannons at the Sea Beast Weapons guarding the ship. In response, Shaka prepares to repel the assassins and deny their entry into Egghead. Lucci and Kaku attempt to persuade Pythagoras into allowing them into Egghead, but after repeatedly being denied by Pythagoras, they resort to violence and attempt to enter by force.
Vegapunk then laments Bonney's situation, but asks Luffy to take him away from Egghead. He also expresses his ambition to make energy infinite and free worldwide, stopping international wars over finite energy resources. He discovers that the key to infinite energy is the ancient energy that powered the Iron Giant. However, as the robot was connected to the Void Century, Vegapunk's study of it made him an enemy of the World Government, who sent CP0 to assassinate him. Just as he speaks, an explosion is seen in the distance from the forced invasion.
Meanwhile, Kuma, still under the Marines' control, suddenly goes rogue while undergoing repairs in the Kamabakka Kingdom. Lindbergh, who was undertaking the repairs, attempts to stop him, but Kuma breaks away from his tubes and machines. Despite being impaired and unable to function smoothly, he disappears from the island with his Devil Fruit ability, escaping the pursuit of Dragon and Ivankov.

With his requests to enter Egghead being denied, Lucci resorts to entering the island by force. Ordering his agents to abandon their ship, Lucci is transported directly into the Fabiriophase by S-Bear's ability, leaving the ship to be destroyed by the Sea Beast Weapons. Seeing their entry, Shaka orders civilians to evacuate and deploys three Seraphims, S-Hawk, S-Snake and S-Shark, led by Sentomaru. Kaku attempts to climb to the Labophase using Geppo, but is struck by an automated laser.
Shaka then orders Atlas to retreat to headquarters, believing she would not be able to defeat them, but Atlas disobeys him. She attempts to attack Lucci, but Lucci dodges her punch and unleashes Rokuogan on her face, knocking her out in a single blow. 
Meanwhile, Luffy's group speaks with Vegapunk. Vegapunk asks Luffy to locate the vacuum rocket to escort a still-unconscious Bonney to the Labophase. However, while they are running, they encounter Lucci and the CP0 agents. Stussy advises Lucci against battling Luffy without prior orders, but Luffy declares battle after seeing Atlas in critical state. 

