A man is handcuffed and in front of him there are two other men with swords, crossing into an "X". There was once a man who took everything in the world: wealth, fame and power, known as Pirate King Gold Roger. The pirate's last words drove people throughout the world to the sea. Roger announces that if someone wants his treasure, he or she can have it, saying that he left everything "there". Roger is executed, and the entire crowd, including a man with a pirate symbol on his hand, is cheering. The world has entered the Golden Age of Piracy.
In a small seaport village, a pirate ship landed almost one year ago. The east wind blows. It is a small peaceful village. A boy is standing on the ship's figurehead. A man asks Luffy what he is doing. The child's full name is revealed to be Monkey D. Luffy. He has a knife in his left hand, and he is wearing a shirt with "ANCHOR" written on it. He announces that he is not joking this time as he had enough, and he decides to prove it for everyone. The man is wearing a straw hat and he tells Luffy to go for it to see what he is going to do. Another man claims that the kid is going to do something funny again. The child stabs himself with the knife right under his eye, screaming in pain. All the pirates are surprised because of this. The first man shouts asking Luffy what he is doing.
In the village, the pirates and the boy have gathered in the Partys Bar. A pirate proposes to drink and celebrate to Luffy's craziness and to their greatness. Inside the bar, all the men are drinking and eating. A fat man is drinking straight from a barrel of beer. A monkey can be seen dancing in the background. One of the pirates laughs and tells everyone to drink. Another man asks to bring him more sake. Two other men are fighting over a piece of meat. The first one calls the other one an idiot and claims that it is his meat. The second one tells the first to shut up claiming that it is his. A third man tells both of them to stop because it is shameful to fight while they are drunk.
Luffy is now patched up, but he is almost crying, claiming that it did not hurt. The man with the straw hat calls the boy a liar and tells him to not do something so stupid again. The child boasts that he is not afraid of pain and asks the man to bring him to the sea the next time because he also wants to be a pirate. The man claims that Luffy is not ready to be a pirate, explaining that not being able to swim is a pirate's greatest weakness. The man is revealed to be the pirate leader called "Red-Haired Shanks". The boy boasts that he will be fine as long as he stays on the board and that his fighting is good, saying that he has trained and that his punch is as strong as pistol fire. Shanks doubts Luffy's latter claim in a bored tone. The child gets angry at the man because of his tone.
Many of the pirates are standing in a line, dancing with the fat man from before in the middle. A man on his left is wearing a kerchief with "Yasopp" written on it. One of the men observes that Luffy is unhappy. Another tells him to be happy to face anything. Another affirms that the life of a pirate is great. Another tells him that the sea is very wide, so he can go to any island and adventure. Another claims that nothing is greater than freedom. Luffy is fascinated with the pirates' words. Shanks requests that the men do not give the boy dumb ideas. The fat man argues that it is the truth. Another man confirms. Another pirate suggests to the captain that they take the child one time, since it is not a big deal. Another man and Luffy agree. Shanks orders that next time one of his subordinates shall get off the ship and let the boy replace him. Hearing this, the men turn away, while one of them comments that they said enough and that they should drink. Luffy gets angry and asks the group what kind of friends they are.
Shanks claims that the most important thing is that the child is still too young and that he will reconsider taking him in ten years. The kid boasts that he is a man. The red-haired man calms him down and gives him a glass of juice. The boy happily accepts and drinks it. Shanks starts laughing to the point of tears, proving that Luffy is still a kid. Luffy is angry at the trick.
Luffy becomes depressed that Shanks does not let him join the crew despite the fact that the boy cut himself today. The bartender can be seen in the background. A smoking man tries to explain to Luffy that he should try to understand the captain's feelings since he is their leader. The man continues and says that the captain knows that the life of a pirate is interesting, but it is also very dangerous. A wanted poster of Mikio Itoo can be seen in the background on a wall. The man claims that his captain does not purposely tease the boy's ambition of becoming a pirate. Luffy thinks Shanks is not taking him serious, which Shanks proves by mocking him again.
The bartender observes that the red-haired man is very happy. Shanks replies that making fun of the boy is his joy. Luffy suggests again to the smoking man that the captain is not taking him seriously. The bartender's name is revealed to be Makino. She holds a barrel of beer and asks the kid if he wants to eat. Luffy claims that he will pay with his treasure. Shanks doubts the existence of Luffy's treasure and calls him a liar. The boy denies, saying that he will become a pirate and pay her with the treasure he finds. Makino replies that she will be waiting, and the kid starts laughing. Luffy is waiting with a fork and knife in his hands.
Finally, Makino brings Luffy and Shanks their meals. As the boy is struggling to bite in a big piece of meat, he raises the question of how long the crew will be staying. The red-haired man comments that it has been almost a year since they have made the town their base, so he is thinking of taking a few more trips and then leave and head north. Luffy manages to bite in his piece of meat. Luffy is thinking for a moment, and Makino looks at him, almost feeling sorry for the child. As the bartender is washing some dishes, Luffy boasts that he will learn how to swim by then, and Shanks wishes him good luck.
Suddenly, a man kicks down one of the doors of the bar. The whole place goes silent. The man enters the bar along with a group behind him and excuses himself. He observes the group partying, and mentions that it is his first time seeing pirates, remaining unimpressed. The fat man and the smoking man are unfazed by this sudden appearance. Meanwhile, Luffy is eating a strange fruit and is confused. The strange man walks towards the bartender, as Shanks is sitting nearby and holding a bottle of sake. The men behind him are all wearing similar looking outfits. He claims that they are bandits and that they are not there to cause trouble, since they only want to buy ten barrels of sake. The man is revealed to be the leader of the bandits, called Higuma. However, Makino tells the bandit that the bar is out of alcohol. The man looks back toward the pirates, thinking it is strange, and asks what are the other men drinking. He sarcastically asks if it is water. The bartender confirms that the pirates are drinking sake, but that is all which is left. Shanks is sorry for the man because his group drank all the alcohol, so he offers him the last bottle that he was holding earlier. Higuma looks displeased, so he smashes the bottle, breaking it into pieces and spilling the sake on the red-haired man. Luffy gets down from his seat that was near Shanks. Makino is frightened at the situation, while the bandits are amused. The smoking man is unfazed, and the boy is surprised. The bandit leader is unsatisfied of one bottle and asks the pirate if he is unaware of the bandit's reputation. The red-haired man is upset that the floor is all wet. Higuma brings out his wanted poster of 8,000,000, claiming that he is one of the prime fugitives there, since he killed 56 people and tells Shanks to not mess with him again because mountain bandits and pirates do not have good relationships. The red-haired pirate ignores the bandit, picks up a large piece of the bottle from the ground, tells Makino that he is sorry for the mess and asks her for a mop, saying that he will clean. Higuma takes out his sword and cuts the table along with the plates on it, saying that since the red-haired man enjoys cleaning, he can now enjoy it more. Convinced that Shanks is a coward, Higuma leaves the bar. Outside, two citizens are seen hiding behind a building. Convinced that the town is pathetic, since it does not even have alcohol, the bandit leader decides to go to the next town.
Afterwards, as Makino tries to see if the red-haired man is hurt, Shanks and his crew laugh at his humiliation. The fat man thinks that the captain looked very silly. Angered by their attitude, Luffy asks the group why they are laughing, since the situation was very disgraceful. The kid thinks they should have fought the bandits, despite the fact that they had more people. The boy thinks that someone that laughs after getting picked on is not a man, nor a pirate. Shanks tells Luffy that he understands his feelings, but there is no reason to get worked up over a bottle of alcohol. As Luffy turns to go away, Shanks grabs his arm to stop him and tells him to stay. However, the boy tells him that he doesn't want to see him again, since he is a coward. As the kid moves away, his arm stretches, to everyone's surprise, including the kerchief man. The fat man looks into a box, and everyone is surprised, saying that the Gomu Gomu no Mi that they got from an enemy ship is not there. The fat man is sweating and shows Luffy a drawing of the fruit he was eating earlier, and asks him if he ate that. Luffy affirms, asking if that was not dessert, although it tasted badly. Shanks goes in front of the boy and explains that that was the Gomu Gomu no Mi, one of the devil fruits and one of the rarest treasures in the sea, that anyone who eats it turns into a rubber human and will never be able to swim. Luffy is surprised and Shanks calls him an idiot.
Later, Luffy visits UO to buy some fish. The storekeeper and his wife are happy to see the boy. The store owner says that he looks happy, asks him if the pirates left him behind again and mentions that the kid cannot swim anymore. Luffy claims that he is going to be a pirate that doesn't fall into the sea. The boy stretches his cheeks, making them look like a big smile and he claims that he became happier after eating the Gomu Gomu no Mi. An old man asks what is so good about having a rubber body. He complains that everyone in the town thinks that Luffy's new ability is cool, but he does not understand the usefulness of it. The boy calls him the chief. The old man is standing on a crane, and tries to persuade the kid to not become a pirate since it would ruin the town's reputation. He insists that despite the fact that the captain looks like a reasonable person, Luffy should not hang around him anymore.
Later, the doors at the Partys Bar are fixed. The boy and Makino are staying there alone, while the bartender is cleaning a glass. Makino mentions that the pirates have been out for a while and asks him if he misses them. Luffy replies that he does not because he has not forgiven them for the bandit incident yet. As the boy is playing with a glass that only contains a few cubes of ice, he claims that he overestimated Shanks. Luffy thought that the red-haired man was a tough pirate, so he is disappointed. Makino thinks that people that can stand up after getting picked on are brave. The boy tells her that she does not understand, since there are times when men must fight back, so the bartender confirms that she does not understand, and Luffy affirms again. Suddenly, a man enters the bar and excuses himself. Luffy is surprised, the man is revealed to be Higuma and he enters the bar along with his group of bandits. He observes that the pirates are not there, so the bar is quiet. The entire group sit at the tables, while the boy and the girl keep looking at them. The bandit leader asks her what is she waiting for, saying that there are customers and orders her to bring them sake.
Soon afterward, Makino rushes through the village to find the Mayor because Luffy has gotten himself into a hostage situation with Higuma after the bandit said something that angered him. As Makino and the Mayor return to reason with the bandit, the bandit states that it is already too late because Luffy is going to die. As Higuma raises his sword to kill Luffy, Shanks and his crew reappear. Higuma and his men tell them that it is none of their business.
As Shanks walks forward, one of the bandits points a gun at Shanks, only to be shot by Lucky Roux. Shanks tells Higuma that he will not allow him to hurt a friend of his and get away with it. Higuma, unfazed by his speech, sends the rest of the crew after him. Beckman decides to step in and single-handedly takes out the entire gang of bandits, leaving Higuma alone. Realizing he cannot win, Higuma drops a smoke bomb and takes Luffy away. As the smoke clears, Shanks realizes Luffy is gone and panics.
Out at sea, Higuma and Luffy stand in a boat. Higuma decides it is time to lose Luffy and kicks him into the water. Angry that he could not do anything to Higuma, Luffy struggles in the water as a Sea King appears. The Sea King eats Higuma, who is unable to do anything to defend himself, before turning toward Luffy. Moments before Luffy is eaten, Shanks saves his life and scares away the Sea King with a stare. When the Sea King is gone, Luffy begins crying upon realizing Shanks has lost his left arm in saving his life.
Finally, Luffy realizes he is too young to sail out to sea and become a pirate, as well as what a great man Shanks is. Later at the docks, Luffy says goodbye to Shanks and his crew and admits he is sad that they are leaving, but is not worried about going with them because he has decided he will become a pirate on his own. This leads to Shanks stating that he did not want him on his crew in the first place before claiming that there is no way Luffy can become a pirate. Luffy angrily proclaims he will become a pirate, gather a crew strong enough to beat Shanks', find the world's greatest treasure, and become the Pirate King no matter what. Happy about Luffy's decision, Shanks gives him his straw hat and tells Luffy to give it back when he has become a great pirate. Honored by Shanks's gesture, Luffy cries. As Shanks boards his ship to leave, Beckman comments on how Luffy will become big. Shanks admits that he knows Luffy will because he reminds him of himself when he was young.
Ten years later, Luffy leaves the village to start his own pirate crew and begin the journey of becoming the Pirate King.

Luffy sets off in a dinghy to form his own pirate crew; however, no sooner had he left than he ran into his first problem - a whirlpool.
Meanwhile, on a remote island, as Alvida is inspecting her ship, she clobbers one of her crew for leaving dust on the deck and asks Koby "Who is the most beautiful in all the sea?" The boy fearfully replies that she is. She comments on how Koby is only allowed to stay because he knows more about navigation than all the others do and how useless he is at everything else. She then orders Koby to clean her shoes.
Sad and upset, Koby pushes a barrel he found into Alvida's hideout. Upon approach, three of Alvida's crew (Heppoko, Peppoko, and Poppoko) stop him and take the barrel, bullying him into being silent about the fact that they are going to drink the wine inside it without Alvida knowing. Suddenly, Luffy bursts out of the barrel and shocks everyone. Before they can get their answer as to why he popped out, Alvida sends her club flying into the hideout. Koby and Luffy flee; meanwhile Alvida accuses her crew of slacking off because she heard someone call "Aw! What a nice nap!" They explain it was not them, but an intruder instead. Alvida fears the famous bounty hunter Roronoa Zoro is here to claim her bounty.
Elsewhere, Koby has dragged Luffy to safety away from Alvida. He shows him his boat that he made over the last 2 years in an attempt to escape from her and explains how he got into his situation. Luffy comments on how wimpy Koby is. Luffy tells Koby his dream to become Pirate King. Koby cannot believe Luffy is prepared to die for his dream and Luffy hits Koby because he does not like his wimpy outlook. Koby admires Luffy's outlook on life. Koby then reveals his desires to become a Marine and catch bad guys. He boasts he would rather die trying to escape to join them than spend the rest of his life at Alvida's side.
Just then, Alvida appears and destroys his boat. Alvida accuses Koby of hiring someone to kill her. When she asks him who the most beautiful woman is, Luffy interferes and outwardly states Alvida is an ugly old hag. Koby, inspired by Luffy, tells Alvida straight what he thinks of her. Alvida strikes Koby in anger, but Luffy gets between her and Koby, taking the full force of Alvida's club; to the shock of everyone, he survives. With one punch of his "Gomu Gomu no Pistol", Luffy knocks Alvida out and orders her crew to fetch Koby a boat and to stay out of his way.
Sometime later, Luffy and Koby are seen sailing out to sea by themselves. Koby tells Luffy more about Zoro, the bounty hunter Alvida mentioned. Luffy decides that he wants to try to recruit Zoro and they head off.

Out at sea, Koby and Luffy are discussing Luffy's decision to recruit Zoro. Sometime later, they arrive at the Marine base Zoro is being held at. Luffy is surprised that they actually arrived, and Koby points out that these are the basics of navigation. Koby points out that Luffy can not just float around out at sea and that he must find a navigator soon. Luffy then says they should go eat.
At a restaurant, when Koby and Luffy discuss parting ways, Luffy mentions Zoro's name with shocking results from the other customers. When Koby mentions the name of the Marine in charge of the base, Morgan, the same effect occurs. In the street Koby comments on the reactions for the villagers here in the town, understanding why they reacted out of fear for Zoro due to his reputation, but not Morgan's name.
At the Marine base, after Luffy climbs up the wall to see Zoro, he climbs up another part of the wall to get a better view of someone he saw in the base. Koby also climbs up, but falls down again out of fear after sighting Zoro. Zoro offers the two the head of a bounty carrier if they will free him due to him going without food for 9 days.
As they talk with Zoro, Rika suddenly appears next to them as she climbs using a ladder, hushing them to be quiet. Rika climbs over the wall; Koby beckons her to come back as she walks towards Zoro. She offers him some onigiri since he has not eaten in several days. Zoro refuses and tells her to go away.
Just then, Morgan's son, Helmeppo, appears with a few Marines and starts mocking Zoro. He snatches the rice balls from Rika and eats one of them. However, he soon spits it out due to the fact she made them using sugar instead of salt. He knocks them to the ground and stomps on them, much to Koby's shock at seeing someone affiliated with the Marines do such a cruel thing. She cries, lamenting on how she worked hard to make them. Helmeppo then points out the law made by his father, which states that anyone who assists a prisoner will also be found guilty of the crimes the prisoner has committed. Helmeppo says that since she is a child, she will be let off the hook. He then orders one of the Marines to toss her over the wall. When he refuses, he reminds them who his father is and the Marine throws her over the wall, forcing Luffy to catch her. Helmeppo continues to mock Zoro, but Zoro remains strong about his situation.
After Helmeppo is gone, Luffy talks to Zoro about joining his crew. Zoro states that he will not join a pirate crew and become a criminal as he has his own dream to follow. After they finish talking, Zoro asks Luffy to give him the rice balls to eat despite the state they are now in. He then tells Luffy to tell Rika that he ate them all and that they were tasty.
Later, Luffy explains how Zoro ate the rice balls and enjoyed them to Rika. Koby is surprised at how considerate Zoro was, despite the reputation he holds. She explains that Zoro is not a bad person and that he was arrested for killing Helmeppo's pet wolf, Soro, while defending her from him, as Soro was running wild, terrorizing the town at the time. As Rika finishes explaining the story, Helmeppo appears bragging about going back on his promise to Zoro and says that he plans on having him killed in three days. Luffy hits him out of anger and after Helmeppo runs away, Luffy decides Zoro is joining his crew.

Helmeppo is angry at Luffy for hitting him. Koby can barely hold Luffy back and the townsfolk are in awe at Luffy's actions. Helmeppo is dragged away by two Marines, claiming Luffy will die for hitting him. Rika is pulled away by Ririka, her mother, but Rika defends Luffy and Zoro as good men. Luffy tells Koby he is going to speak to Zoro again.
Back at the Marine base, one of the Marines reports to Morgan that the amount of offering from the townsfolk is decreasing. Morgan is unable to accept that they are poor, seeing it as a sign that the townsfolk are disrespecting him. Just then, Helmeppo bursts in and tells his father that he wants someone killed.
Luffy arrives to talk to Zoro about him joining his crew. He makes a deal with Zoro without his consent that if he gets him his swords, he must join his crew.
On the roof, a statue of Morgan is being raised. Helmeppo is still demanding that Morgan kill Luffy; however, he is hit for giving Morgan an order. Morgan mentions that he heard a little girl snuck into the base earlier. He orders Lieutenant Junior Grade Rokkaku to go find and kill her for disrespecting him. When the Marine refuses, he is hit. Morgan then claims he will do it himself, and gives the order to raise the statue.
On ground level, while Luffy is trying to find a Marine to get Zoro's swords, he hears someone on the roof. On the roof, Seaman Recruit Ukkari knocks the statue against part of the building on the roof. Luffy launches himself up onto the roof via "Gomu Gomu no Rocket". As the Marine is about to be punished for knocking the statue, Luffy flies by, grabbing some of the ropes on the statue because he has taken off into the air too fast. To the horror of everyone there, the statue breaks.
Morgan suddenly bursts out Luffy's death sentence and Helmeppo points out that Luffy was the one he wanted his father to kill in the first place. Then Luffy drags Helmeppo into the base building to find Zoro's swords, while one of the Marines spots Koby untying Zoro. Morgan becomes paranoid because he thinks the townsfolk are turning on him. Koby reveals to Zoro his desire to become a Marine who is just, as well as Luffy's dream of becoming Pirate King. While Zoro shows surprise for Luffy's ambition, Koby is suddenly shot. This causes Zoro to threateningly glance at the roof of the Marine base.

Luffy is busy dragging Helmeppo through the base, trying to find Zoro's sword. After dragging Helmeppo for a while, Luffy asks Helmeppo where Zoro's sword is and he tells Luffy Zoro's arsenal is in his room. Luffy decides to use Helmeppo as a human shield, leaving some pursuing Marines in a position where they cannot do anything.
Meanwhile, Koby realizes that he has been shot and that he had started bleeding. Zoro tells Koby to run, but Koby will not go until Zoro is untied. He tells Zoro that Helmeppo never planned to keep his word. Zoro cannot believe what he is hearing, and Koby tells Zoro how Luffy punched Helmeppo because of what they overheard him say. Koby asks Zoro to help Luffy. Suddenly, some Marines approach Zoro and Koby and declare them traitors.
Elsewhere, Luffy has found swords in Helmeppo's room, but does not know which one is Zoro's. Luffy suddenly spots what is going on down on the ground outside the window of the Marine base. Zoro and Koby are in trouble and Morgan wants them dead. Zoro, aware that he may die, begins a flashback to his days as a young boy and his reasons for becoming who he is.
A young Zoro was in a training dojo on the ground after a defeat against Kuina. Kuina was mocking him for failing to win against her (for the 2000th time) even after he used two swords. Zoro's friends stuck up for him when he was called weak, as Kuina stated even though he could stand up to the adults, it was no good if he still could not beat her. The others accused her for showing off because she was the dojo master's daughter. As the sensei entered the room, the other trainee swordsmen (save Zoro himself) accused him of giving her special training because she was able to beat Zoro. The sensei just stated that Kuina was older.
Later that night, a frustrated Zoro challenged Kuina to fight him with real katana. Kuina accepted Zoro's challenge. With one strike, Zoro lost and Kuina claimed her 2001st victory against him. After the duel was over, Kuina broke down in tears. She told Zoro her woe about being a girl: as she gets older, she will fall behind him due to the fact girls do not acquire the strength guys do. Kuina said that she wished she had been born a boy, but Zoro got angry at her, saying that she did not have the right to complain after she beat him. Zoro went further by saying that it was an insult to all the hard work he'd been doing. The two then made an agreement; one of them will become the greatest swordsman in the world.
Disaster hit the next day as Zoro was informed of the worst; Kuina had fallen down the stairs and died. Upset, Zoro called to her body lying lifeless, its face covered with a cloth, accusing her of running away. Zoro asked the sensei to give Zoro her sword; he will become the world's greatest swordsman on her behalf.
Back in the present, Zoro faces death. As the Marines fire, Luffy jumps in front of them and the bullets hit him instead. The bullets then bounce off Luffy to the disbelief of everyone watching. Luffy brings the three swords he had found in Helmeppo's room, claiming he did not know which one was Zoro's. The swordsman then explains he uses three swords. Zoro accepts Luffy's offer to join his crew because he would rather become a criminal than die.

Morgan tells his men that Luffy must have eaten a Devil Fruit and that he is not a normal human. Realizing guns will not work; the Marines attack Luffy while he is trying to untie Zoro. Koby awakens after fainting when Luffy was shot at to see the Marines charging at Zoro and Luffy. Luffy manages to untie Zoro and hands him his swords.
After freeing himself, all the charging Marines find their swords are locked by Zoro's three swords. Zoro threatens to kill anyone who moves and the Marines cry with fear. Zoro tells Luffy he has already declared he will join him after this, as the Marines will declare him a criminal either way. He lays down the conditions for him to join Luffy, warning him that his plans have better not interfere with his own dream of becoming the greatest swordsman.
Morgan calls out to his men to fight them and Luffy tells Zoro to duck. Luffy knocks all the Marines who currently have their swords locked against Zoro's swords. The Marines complain that they cannot defeat the pair. Morgan orders his men to hold their guns to their heads for disobeying him. Luffy proclaims that he is the Marines' worst enemy and dares Morgan to attack him. The fight presumes, and Morgan cuts a fence in half with his axe-hand.
Morgan proves to have high endurance as neither man manages to knock the other to the ground. As Morgan is knocked around by Luffy, Helmeppo holds a gun to Koby's head and threatens to kill him. Koby tells Luffy to continue, but Luffy ignores him and lands a punch on Helmeppo. Morgan takes advantage of this to attack Luffy, but is defeated by Zoro.

Morgan has been defeated; however, the Marines working for him would rather celebrate than worry about his loss. Due to his fatigue, Zoro finally collapses.
Back at Rika's home, Zoro is eating after going for nine days without food. Zoro asks Luffy what his plans are. Luffy states he wants to go to the Grand Line to find One Piece. Zoro questions why Koby is worried since he is not going with them. He replies that it is because they are friends. Zoro points out to Koby that his past with Alvida makes joining the Marines difficult as he has association with pirates.
Just then, the Marines enter the building demanding to know if Luffy and Zoro are pirates. After the pair confirms that they are, they are told as pirates the Marines are grateful for their help, but they cannot stay in town and must leave; however, the Marines will not be reporting the whole event to Marine Headquarters. Luffy and Zoro thank Rika's mother for the food.
Koby is left standing there alone and the Marines question whether he is with the pirates. Koby claims otherwise. As Luffy is asked if he knows Koby, Luffy goes on about how Koby used to be with Alvida. Angry that Luffy is telling the Marines what he does not want them to know, he hits him. With everyone watching in awe, Luffy begins to punch Koby for hitting him. After the Marines stop Luffy from fighting, Koby is declared not to be with the pirates. Luffy and Zoro are ordered to leave.
Lying on the ground, Koby brings his nerves together and declares he wants to join the Marines, even if it is just to do chores. The Marine in charge of the scene asks Koby if he really wants to join, the Marine acknowledges his past with pirates and agrees that Koby can join.
On the outskirts of the town, Zoro and Luffy are leaving. Koby suddenly catches their attention. Koby salutes the pirates; suddenly he becomes aware that the other Marines are also saluting them. As the two sail away in a small boat, the Marine in charge declares that they violated the Marine code of conduct and now must go one week without food, but not before commenting to Koby on how he has a good friend in Luffy.

Zoro and Luffy are lost, starving at sea due to the fact that neither of them has any navigation skills. They are talking about how Zoro survives on the sea by hunting others. Zoro points how odd it is for a pirate like Luffy not being able to navigate, though Luffy states that wandering usually works for him. He then points out that Zoro is no different, given that he is a wandering bounty hunter. Zoro reveals that he never intended to become a bounty hunter in the first place when he first went out to sea, but entirely to search for a certain man. However, he then could not find his way back home. Due to this, he had no choice but to take up bounty hunting for a living. Luffy somewhat correctly comes to the conclusion that Zoro has been lost this whole time, which angers the swordsman who tells him to shut up. Some time passes and a bird flies overhead, causing a starving Luffy to go after it, which ends up with him in the bird's beak, being carried off with Zoro left to chase after him.
As Zoro rows as fast as he can, he comes across some castaways and tells them to grab on, as he is not stopping. When they are on board, they reveal that they are pirates working for Captain Buggy and that they were taking the boat. Zoro then reveals to them who he is by beating them. As they row him onwards the question of why they were in the middle of the ocean arises.
It turns out they were tricked by a girl on a boat, who stole their boat and treasure, leaving them to be sunk on her boat with help from a storm. Zoro wonders if a person like her who can predict the weather would join him and Luffy. One of Buggy's crew tells Zoro about their captain and how he has the power of a Devil Fruit.
Meanwhile, a girl in the nearby town is running from some of Buggy's crew after stealing their map to the Grand Line. Elsewhere Buggy's men report seeing a strange bird and Buggy gives the order to shoot it down. As the bird is hit, Luffy falls right in front of the girl. However, to the shock of the Superhuman Domingos, Luffy stands up unscathed.
The girl tries to claim Luffy is her boss in order to get out of trouble with the pirates and runs off, leaving Luffy to deal with them. One of Buggy's crew knocks Luffy's straw hat causing him to get mad. Luffy beats them up. After he is finished, the girl reappears claiming to be a thief who steals from pirates, called Nami.

Nami invites Luffy to join her, claiming to be a thief who steals from pirates. Nami asks Luffy what is so important about his hat that made him mad when Buggy's crew touched it, wondering if it had jewels or a treasure map inside.
On the roof of a bar, Buggy is dealing with one of his crew members after Nami got away. Buggy mishears him, thinking that he said something about his nose being strange. The man is raised into the air via Buggy's Devil Fruit powers; Buggy orders the rest of the crew to put a cannon to the man and fire. With the man killed by cannon fire, Buggy orders everyone to search the town for the thief and any treasure to be found.
In a house elsewhere, Nami asks Luffy about his crew's numbers. After knowing they were only two, she explains to Luffy who Buggy is and why the town is empty, as the populace is sheltering. She warns Luffy that Buggy is fond of using his cannon and that he once destroyed a whole town because a boy made fun of his nose. Nami gets fed up with Luffy's short attention span and tendency to ignore her.
Nami reveals her quest to gather 100,000,000 and buy a village. She begins to talk about the plan she has for the Grand Line map she stole: she will go there and steal from all the famous pirates in that ocean, who she thinks must possess more treasure. Nami confirms she is a navigator and Luffy is excited about her joining in his adventure; however, when he tells her he is a pirate, she changes her mind. Nami reiterates her suspicion about the straw hat Luffy carries, thinking there must be a treasure map inside. Luffy tells her about the symbolic value of the hat, as it was given to him by his friend, to whom he swore he'd create a pirate crew. Nami explains she hates pirates the most, only liking mikan and money. However, as she now knows that Luffy does not have treasure or much intelligence, she suddenly has an idea. She agrees to join him if he comes with her to see Buggy. However, she takes some rope with her and as they approach his hideout, Nami ties Luffy up with it.
Buggy is telling off his crew who believe they are about to be killed for not being able to find the thief who stole their map. They explain that, in their perception, with the thief, Nami, there was her boss, Luffy, who was the reason they couldn't retrieve the map. Just then Nami and Luffy enter the scene, to Buggy's surprise. Nami hands over Luffy, claiming she had an argument with her boss, and decides to pretend to join Buggy's crew, handing over the map she stole. Luffy is imprisoned in a cage.
Elsewhere, Zoro arrives at the island with the pirates he encountered on the way, who explain that their crew is raiding the village at the moment. Zoro decides to meet Buggy to gather information about Luffy.

Buggy celebrates the return of his map of the Grand Line and Nami joining his crew. During the celebrations, Nami begins to plan her next move; she will make all the pirates drunk to make clearing them out easier, as she has a bigger drinking capacity than them. Luffy, seeing the other pirates celebrating, wants to join in the fun too and Nami comes over to tease him about his current situation. However, she ends up feeding Luffy and tells him that his fate as a prisoner would end once her plan works.
Buggy suddenly appears behind her to proclaim that Luffy should die. As a demonstration, he levels a street of buildings with his cannon and a Buggy Ball. Buggy reveals that he plans to use his Devil Fruit powers along with his cannons to conquer the Grand Line. Buggy then orders Nami to fire the cannon at Luffy to prove her loyalty to him. Nami hesitates to fire the cannon, as she had not planned to kill anyone, and even tries to revert Buggy's attention back to the party, without success. Luffy points out Nami is trembling and lacks the oath a pirate has to make. Nami wonders if such a big oath is to kill people like insects, to which Luffy replies it is the capacity to risk one's own life.
When Nami does not lit the fuse on the cannon, one of Buggy's crew steps in to light it anyway, and Nami hits him away with her staff. She claims that no matter what she does, she does not want to become a cruel pirate because pirates killed the most important person in her life.
While Nami is talking to Buggy, Luffy suddenly notices the fuse is lit. He tries to eat the cage in desperation to get out. As the fuse burns, Nami finds herself under attack by the Buggy pirates. Nami tries to swing her staff at the pirates, who easily dodge her attack, while Luffy continues to try and eat his way out of the cage. Nami quits defending herself from Buggy's crew and puts out the fuse with her bare hands. Suddenly Zoro appears and saves Nami, having found Luffy at last.
Buggy approaches Zoro asking him if he came for Buggy's head. Zoro explains he is no longer a pirate hunter, but Buggy reveals interest in defeating Zoro to become more famous. Buggy attacks Zoro, who accepts the challenge and cuts Buggy into pieces, to the shock of Luffy and Nami. Buggy's crew simply laughs.

Zoro stands seemingly victorious after slicing up Buggy. However, as he goes to free Luffy from his cage, Buggy's crew starts laughing. Nami questions to herself why the crew is doing so when Zoro suddenly finds himself struck in the side by a hand holding a knife. Buggy floats behind Zoro as he finds himself fighting the hand and boasts about his Devil Fruit powers, the Bara Bara no Mi.
Buggy sees he missed Zoro's vital parts, but Zoro is still injured and finds that he needs rescuing even though he had initially come to rescue Luffy. While Nami is simply shocked about the whole thing, Luffy calls Buggy "Big Nose" while claiming he is a jerk for striking Zoro in the back. Buggy gets angry and sends his hand out again, this time to kill Luffy; however, Luffy grasps the knife between his teeth. As Luffy claims he will finish Buggy, Buggy and his crew laugh. Luffy tells Zoro to escape, but Nami does not understand. Zoro, however, gets the idea of what Luffy is going to do.
Zoro attempts to escape, but Buggy launches his Bara Bara no Hou. Zoro heads for the cannon and turns it over to face Buggy and his crew. Nami lights the fuse and the cannon fires at the Buggy Pirates, destroying part of the rooftop they're in. Zoro asks who Nami is and, while she says she is just a thief, Luffy tells him she is their navigator. Nami denies Luffy's statement and follows behind them. While Buggy's crew is down for the count, Zoro goes to Luffy and, ignoring the request to find a way to open the cage, he grabs it and makes a break for it before Buggy fully recovers. Buggy's crew begins to find their bearings and find all three of them gone, as well as the key to Luffy's cage. Buggy's crew starts to search the town, but Zoro and Luffy are on a rooftop. Furious, Buggy declares war on them.

Buggy gloats about his reputation as a pirate in front of his crew. He orders them to find Luffy, Nami, and Zoro no matter what. Mohji arrives riding Richie and asks Buggy if he could take Zoro out. Buggy replies that he does not mind.
Elsewhere, Zoro is still carrying Luffy in a cage. Suddenly, he collapses to the ground out of exhaustion. The pair notice there is a dog sitting staring at them. Luffy comments about how the dog is sitting so still that you cannot tell if he is real or not, before provoking the dog into biting him when he pokes him in the head. Nami shows up and explains to them that they will likely be found if they remain in the middle of the road. Nami throws a key to the cage in front of Luffy, but before he can grab it the dog eats the key. Luffy attempts to strangle the dog in anger. The mayor of the town Boodle shows up, demanding that they stop hurting the dog, Chouchou.
Boodle takes them to his house to rest, and explains why the dog is sitting where he is. He feeds him every day, and he is guarding his owner's pet store. Ten years ago, the mayor's friend and Chouchou's owner opened the store. Chouchou's owner went into hospital three months ago and never returned, leaving Chouchou behind to guard the store. Chouchou is covered in wounds from fighting the pirates: he is aware his owner will not be coming back, but he still guards the store because it is his treasure. Boodle talks about leaving the dog and moving away, but he admits he has changed his mind many times.
Just then, they hear the roar of Richie the lion. Boodle and Nami run away, leaving Chouchou, Luffy and Zoro behind. When Mohji and Richie arrive, they find Luffy still in his cage. Luffy mocks Mohji's hairstyle, provoking him. Mohji boasts about being such a good animal trainer that every animal follows his orders, but Chouchou bites him anyway. When Richie pounces on the cage to finish Luffy, he frees Luffy instead.
As the pair prepare to leave, not noticing that Luffy is still alive, Richie smells the food inside the Pet Store, and Mohji tells Richie that he can eat the food.

After surviving an attack from Richie, Boodle and Nami struggle to believe Luffy could have lived. The mayor demands to know why Luffy is in Orange Town, and Luffy replies it's to acquire the map of the Grand Line and a navigator.
Meanwhile Richie and Mohji approach the pet store, only to find out Chouchou will not allow them inside. Chouchou fights the lion, but even though he loses, he will not surrender his treasure and the memory of his owner. As Luffy walks over to find Zoro, Mohji is angry over the dog as it bit him. But as Luffy approaches the pet store, he finds it ablaze with Chouchou barking at the loss of his greatest treasure.
Returning from the store, Mohji and his lion come across Luffy standing in the way. They cannot believe he is still alive and fail to understand what Luffy means by saying that he is a rubber man. Mohji sends Richie to attack, however to his shock and horror Luffy stops it with an attack. Mohji is astonished that Luffy has a Devil Fruit like his captain Buggy. Mohji begs for mercy, but Luffy explains he is not the one Mohji must say sorry to. Luffy stretches his arms to grab Mohji and throws him head first to the ground.
Nami and the mayor return at Chouchou's store's ruins. Nami expresses a strong dislike for all pirates for what has happened. When Luffy shows up, she takes her dislike for pirates out on him, but Boodle holds her back, preventing her from striking Luffy (although he states she could not kill him even if she tried). Luffy places a bag of pet food in front of Chouchou. Even though the bag of food is all that is left of the store, Chouchou is grateful to Luffy for what he has done. Nami is left wondering why Luffy did something so unlike a pirate.
Meanwhile, Buggy gives the order to prepare the Buggy Balls, as he is ready to wipe the town out.

Mohji reports back to Buggy; despite being afraid to tell Buggy about his failure, he feels he must warn him. However, he faints while he is warning him. The crew cannot make out what Mohji was trying to say, but Buggy becomes aware that he is facing a tough man and orders his men to hurry up the preparation of the Buggy Balls.
Outside the town, Chouchou arrives at the camp the townsfolk are staying at, injured but safe (to everyone's relief). Since Boodle failed to return with the dog, they are now worried.
Back in the town, Nami has changed her mind about Luffy being a pirate. The mayor gets frustrated at the pirates in the town, because while Chouchou and Luffy fought hard he stood back and did nothing. The mayor tells Luffy and Nami how only 40 years ago, the land was nothing but bare earth, and how the people moved here to forget all about the pirates that had previously done them wrong. The mayor declares the town is his treasure.
At that moment, Buggy launches a Buggy ball that hits the Mayor's house where Zoro was sleeping, making everyone fly from the ball's incredible damage. Luffy and the Mayor go crazy because Zoro is in the house, but Zoro simply gets up out of the rubble, awake and relatively unharmed. The mayor is in shock as his life's work is torn apart, and he cannot sit by while this is happening. Nami tries to calm him down, but the mayor is too upset about what is happening. As the mayor runs off, Luffy ensures Nami he will not let him die. Luffy asks Nami to join him, but Nami declares she will not become a pirate. However, she will help Luffy in exchange for any treasure they find.
As Buggy has a second shot readied, the Mayor shows up and stands in the way. He makes a stand against the pirates as elsewhere Luffy, Zoro, and Nami make their way to Buggy.

Boodle challenges Buggy over the matter of the town. While the crew laugh, Cabaji, Buggy's staff offers to deal with the mayor himself and leaps into the air to strike him down. Buggy steps in and tells Cabaji to back off, as the mayor challenged him directly. Boodle's claim that the town is his treasure amuses Buggy, who only views gold and silver as treasure.
Buggy splits his right arm off and sends it flying towards the mayor, grabbing him by the throat and lifting him off the ground. Trying to get Buggy off him, Boodle strikes at his throat where the hand is holding it. He struggles for air while Buggy gloats that, after this town, he plans on heading out into the Grand Line and stealing all the treasures there. Boodles's efforts amuse him, but Luffy appears in time to save the man and pulls the hand off Boodle's neck.
Buggy re-attaches his hand as Nami tells Zoro and Luffy to fight, while she grabs the Grand Line map and any treasures she can find nearby. The mayor is displeased about seeing Luffy and the others, as he wanted to fight Buggy on his own. Luffy however renders the mayor unconscious with a punch (much to Nami's shock), in order to make sure he is safe and does not get in the way.
Luffy then calls out to Buggy, shouting "Hey, big nose!" to provoke him. Because of his reputation of overreacting to anything related to his nose, Buggy's crew, Zoro and Nami are all horrified. Buggy then demands that his crew load another Buggy Ball into the cannon, while Zoro and Nami flee for cover. Launching the powerful cannonball towards Luffy, the rubber man blows himself up like a balloon and shoots the cannonball straight back at the Buggy Pirates.

Nami demands that Luffy explain more about who he is, because she does not understand how he survived an attack from Richie. She also asks how he inflated himself, to which Luffy responds with the attack's name, much to Nami's dismay.
Buggy and Cabaji rise after having survived the attack from the reflected Buggy Ball, doing so by using other crew members as shields. Cabaji remarks that their current situation is the biggest humiliation their crew has ever received under their flag. Mohji regains consciousness and becomes upset at Cabaji, because Cabaji is holding an unconscious Richie. Cabaji tells Mohji that he used Ritchie as a shield so that his clothes would not get dirty. As Mohji goes over to check on Ritchie, he notices that Luffy is present.
Mohji warns his captain that he should be careful of Luffy, explaining that Luffy has eaten a Devil Fruit just like Buggy, and he is made of rubber. Nami, shocked, turns to Luffy who demonstrates his power by stretching his cheeks out. Buggy realizes that this is how Luffy reflected the Buggy Ball, and loses his temper with Mohji for not telling him about Luffy's powers sooner. Mohji is thrown by Buggy towards Luffy, who in turns slams him into a nearby wall and remarks that the fight has begun.
Cabaji, now on his unicycle, attacks Luffy, but Zoro intercepts the attack. Zoro remarks that if anyone is fighting with swords, he will be their opponent, and Cabaji replies that it would be an honor as a swordsman to kill Zoro. Luffy notices that Zoro is struggling by his wound from his earlier encounter with Buggy, and suggests that he should fight Cabaji while Zoro rests. Cabaji also notices the wound, and begins to attack Zoro using a fire-breathing trick, although Zoro evades the attack. Cabaji uses the opportunity to kick the wound, and Zoro falls to the ground in agony. Cabaji uses another trick to cause a dust storm to blind Zoro and strikes again. Zoro blocks the attack, but once again Cabaji kicks him directly in the wound and Zoro once again collapses in agony.
Cabaji mocks Zoro, saying that it is pathetic to see a grown man on the ground, and that it was a mistake for Zoro to make an enemy out of their crew. Nami decides that Zoro should have never started fighting, and begs Luffy to interfere; however, Luffy does nothing. Cabaji launches into the final attack, but Zoro gets up and knocks him aside. Zoro asks if Cabaji enjoys hitting his wound, before cutting himself again in the same spot. He declares his goal to be the world's greatest swordsman, and asks Cabaji if these additional wounds will satisfy him. Zoro then promises to show Cabaji the true difference in power levels between them, which leaves Luffy impressed.

Luffy cheers on Zoro while Nami points out how he looks like he is about to collapse after wounding himself on purpose. Zoro swears that he will not be defeated by another swordsman. Cabaji notes Zoro's determination, but adds that Zoro can use his wounds as a excuse once he has lost the fight; Zoro responds by claiming if he loses in this condition, then his fate is obvious and he will never be the world's greatest swordsman.
Nami whispers her plan to Luffy, while Buggy and Cabaji are distracted and the rest of Buggy's crew is unconscious; they will continue fighting while she steals Buggy's treasure from a warehouse. She expects the Grand Line map is still in Buggy's possession, not with the rest of the treasure, and says that after she gets the treasure, she will escape. She reasons that whether or not Luffy and Zoro win their fight does not depend on her, so she can escape without causing any problems; and if Luffy wins the fight and gets the map, then they can "cooperate" again before she leaves.
As the fight between Zoro and Cabaji rages on, Cabaji begins what he calls his best trick. After launching several tops at Zoro, he rides his unicycle up a wall and leaps high into the air to prepare a downward strike. Zoro manages to deflect all of the tops, but Buggy launches his hand with his devil fruit powers to grab Zoro, so that he cannot avoid Cabaji's attack. Luffy intervenes by stepping on Buggy's hand before he can grab Zoro - while Buggy recoils in pain, Luffy tells him that he shouldn't interfere with Zoro's fight. Cabaji continues to go for his attack even without his captain's help. Zoro dodges, but becomes exhausted due to the strain of his wounds, and says that he is tired. Cabaji interrupts to insult him, before being thrown from his unicycle by Zoro. Zoro then finishes his statement, saying that he is tired of fighting an opponent with such pitiful skills. Cabaji tries to retaliate with one final strike against Zoro, but Zoro uses his "Oni Giri" attack to finish off Cabaji. As Cabaji falls, he admits that it is shameful to be defeated by a common thief. Zoro collapses from exhaustion as he declares himself to be a pirate, telling Luffy that he is going to sleep. Luffy promises Zoro that he will finish things off.
Buggy is shocked to learn that Luffy and Zoro are pirates. Luffy demands that Buggy should hand over the Grand Line map, but Buggy responds that the Grand Line is not a place where nobodies like Luffy can go as they please, and asks Luffy what he intends to do there. Luffy responds that he is going to be the King of the Pirates, stunning Buggy, before he also declares that he will be the Pirate King. Luffy says that they should stop talking and begin their fight, but as they prepare to fight, Buggy remarks that Luffy's hat reminds him of a red-haired man he once knew.

Buggy confirms the "Red-Hair" he mentioned was Shanks. Luffy demands he tell him where Shanks is. Buggy implies he may know where Shanks is, but Luffy calls him an idiot for the way he said it. Buggy loses his temper, asking him if he can reflect knives, only for Luffy to automatically confirm he cannot.
With that, Buggy attacks, and Luffy jumps to avoid him. Seeing Luffy in the air, Buggy points out that Luffy is now helpless as he cannot fly like Buggy. However, when he attacks, Luffy stretches his arm to a lampost and pulls himself out of the way. As Buggy's attack flies past, Luffy throws a long punch at Buggy, who dodges and tells Luffy that his power is also his weakness, and that he has now left himself open. He fails to notice that Luffy's punch has kept going, and that he has got hold of a windows ledge.  He uses the ledge to launch himself into another attack, which Buggy dodges again.
Luffy crashes into the ruins of a house behind him. After stealing the treasure, Nami watches the fight from a distance. Some of Buggy's crew decide to pretend to still be unconscious, rather than risk being killed if they get involved in the fight. Buggy launches another attack, sending out his arm holding three knives. Luffy grabs it, but Buggy separates his hand from the attacking arm to land the strike anyway. Luffy dodges, but is struck in the side of the face by one of the knives. The blow then pierces Luffy's straw hat.
Buggy mocks Luffy, thinking he is upset by his face being cut. Luffy reveals he is instead angry, because that last attack damaged his hat. Seeing Luffy call the hat his treasure, Buggy pulls his hand back towards him, with the hat run through by his knives. As Buggy holds the hat up, Luffy remembers the promise he made on the hat and runs after it. When he hears Luffy saying the hat belonged to Shanks, Buggy throws it to the ground, and explains he was once friends with Shanks. After Buggy spits on the hat, Luffy refuses to hear Buggy compare himself to Shanks, and throws a furious punch. Buggy separates his head while laughing, but Luffy instead hits him in the stomach.

Luffy is still mad that Buggy said Shanks was his friend, but Buggy insists he can say what he wants about the pirate. Buggy begins to separate his body, but Luffy hits him to stop him. The Buggy Pirates lying on the ground cannot believe their captain is losing. Nami suddenly realizes she is caught up in watching the fight.
Back at the camp outside the village, the villagers are now worried about their mayor. When Poro decides to head into town to find him, he is supported by the others, and they all go.
Buggy claims Shanks is the one person who has angered him the most over the years. He has a flashback about their time as fellow pirates. Shanks and Buggy are fighting on a pirate ship about whether the North Pole or South Pole is colder. An unnamed senior member of the crew steps in and stops their fight by banging their heads together, telling them if they really want to find to prove which is colder, then they should go and find out themselves.
A lookout tells the crew that there is an approaching vessel, and they prepare themselves for a fight. Buggy is delighted by the thought of getting some treasure from the ship, but Shanks replies there is more to being a pirate than treasure, despite what Buggy thinks. During the fight, Buggy finds a treasure map to an underwater treasure horde. Buggy hides the map, so he can claim the treasure himself.
Later that night, Shanks leaves a wild party on the ship to ask Buggy why he is not joining in, and explains they found a rare treasure on the enemy ship. Buggy shows signs of guilt, leaving Shanks wondering what Buggy is concealing. Since Buggy is convinced his plan will succeed, he discusses his future with Shanks and talks about leaving the ship. Shanks says he might also leave, find a crew and travel around the world as a pirate. Buggy mocks his ideas, telling Shanks he's too naive and innocent to ever make it as a pirate, and that if it wasn't for his crazy ideas, he would have him on his crew. Shanks declines on the grounds that their views are too different, and they agree if they ever meet on the sea they will fight to the end.
Shanks reveals that the party was because they had found a Devil Fruit; after telling Buggy the powers and value of the fruit, Buggy makes up his mind to eat it the next day. In front of the entire crew, he swallows the Devil Fruit whole. He tells the others the fruit had no effect on him, and they all dismiss the stories they've heard about the Devil Fruits. Unknown to them, Buggy had already switched the fruit with a fake, and plans to sell it. That night, Buggy plans to leave the crew and begin his dream of becoming a pirate. Shanks surprises him by appearing suddenly; in desperation he hides the Devil Fruit in his mouth and the map in his jacket. Buggy manages to get Shanks to leave, but as he lets out a sigh of relief, Shanks once again pops up behind him, startling Buggy and causing him to swallow the Devil Fruit.
Buggy is in complete shock at what he has done, but before he could finish yelling at Shanks, Shanks points out a fluttering piece of paper heading over the side of the ship. Buggy realizes this is his map and leaps after it; as he lands in the water, he discovers the story about the sea turning against Devil Fruit users is true, and he is unable to swim. Up on the ship, the crew gathers wondering why Buggy has not come up yet since he is a good swimmer, and Shanks eventually dives into the water after him.
After hearing Buggy's story, Luffy is relieved to hear Shanks saved Buggy's life. This infuriates Buggy, as his plans were set back ten years due to losing the Devil Fruit. Buggy notices Nami with the stolen treasure, and launches the upper half of his body at her.

Nami is being chased by Buggy's top half for stealing his treasure. Just as he is about to reach her, Luffy notices that his lower half has not moved at all, and kicks him between the legs. As Buggy hits the ground in pain, Luffy reminds him who he is fighting. Luffy tells Nami to abandon her treasures and run, but Nami refuses, claiming that since she stole it, the treasure is now hers. Buggy gets angry upon hearing this, but Nami reasons that she hasn't done anything bad enough to be told off by a pirate.
Buggy separates himself further, launching parts of himself at Nami. Luffy notices that his feet cannot fly and picks one of them up. As Buggy continues to chase Nami, Luffy tickles his foot and hits it on the ground, causing Buggy pain and discomfort and distracting him from attacking Nami. Nami swings the bag of treasure around to strike Buggy, but Buggy grabs the bag. With both of them refusing to let go, Buggy attempts to strike Nami with his knives. As he is poised to attack, Luffy kicks him in the head, knocking him into the bag and ripping it.
With Buggy momentarily incapacitated, Luffy grabs the map of the Grand Line. Buggy gets up and attempt to reform his body, but he realizes that he has only assembled with his hands, feet and head, since Nami has tied up the rest of his body parts. With Buggy realizing that he is defeated, Luffy lands a blow and sends him into the sky.

Luffy, having beaten Buggy, begins to leave the city with Zoro and Nami. Nami splits the loot into two bags: one for Luffy and one for herself. When the villagers arrive, they find Boodle unconscious, and Luffy admits that he knocked him out. The villages then ask if they are pirates, and Luffy cheerfully says he is, angering them and causing them to give chase. While the crew is running away, Luffy says that it must be a very good town, because they were prepared to fight pirates to protect a single person, but he also mentions that no matter what the villagers say, they are not going to stop.
On the way, they encounter Chouchou, who protects Luffy and the others. They reason that this is to pay back the debt of Luffy avenging the destruction of his owner's shop, as he refuses to let the villagers pass. Near the boat, they encounter three of Buggy's crew who Nami stole a boat from previously and who Zoro beat up afterwards. Luffy, carrying a worn out Zoro on his shoulders, is stopped by one of the pirates, who taps Zoro on the head, saying that he should not be a coward and should show his face. When Zoro lifts his head and glares at them, the three pirates run away in fear.
Meanwhile, the Mayor wakes up and finds the town's people around him. They tell him that they have chased Luffy and the rest out of town. As they curse the pirates, he gets angry, saying that he is the only one allowed to insult them. He rushes to the harbor to thank the crew.
As the boat leaves, Luffy says he left his bag of treasure back at the harbor to help them rebuild. Out of rage, Nami threatens to drown him in the sea, calling him an idiot.

Nami fixes Luffy's straw hat after Buggy damaged it previously, much to his delight. Despite her warnings, he pokes the hat and puts a hole in it, causing Nami to stab him in the forehead with her sewing needle. Zoro wakes up due to the noise and starts asking for food. Nami spots an island in the distance, and Luffy directs the ship towards the island as fast as possible in the hopes of food.
The crew lands to find the island is deserted and covered in forest. Luffy calls to Zoro, but since he is asleep, he and Nami go exploring without him. They find a dog/chicken hybrid creature, then a snake/rabbit and a pig/lion. Suddenly, a voice booms out a warning for them to leave before the curse of the island effects them, and that they will die. Nami and Luffy call the guardian's bluff, and Luffy is shot by a bullet. After bouncing the bullet back using his Devil Fruit ability, Luffy and Nami follow the direction of the shot and find a strange object resembling a chest with hair on top.
When they examine it, the strange object moves and runs away, but it trips and falls over, revealing a person inside it. Gaimon introduces himself, revealing he has been stuck in a treasure chest for 20 years and has not spoken to another human being in all that time. Luffy attempts to pull Gaimon out, but Gaimon claims his body will fall apart if he leaves the chest, because it has become molded to fit over the years. Gaimon explains he used to be a pirate and is happy to meet others who are pirates. As Luffy and Gaimon talk, the Grand Line is mentioned and they show Gaimon the map they have. Unfortunately, Gaimon lacks any specific knowledge, and cannot tell them where the Grand Line is.
Nami interrupts and explains the Grand Line to them. The world is separated into two parts with one continent - the Red Line - separating the parts. The Grand Line further divides up the world, splitting it into four seas and the Grand Line itself. The only person to conquer the Grand Line was Gold Roger. Gaimon states the Grand Line is known as the "pirates graveyard", and that although he has seen pirates that returned from that area of sea, they were changed men who had lost the will to live.
Gaimon goes on to explain the One Piece legend; in over twenty years, not one person has found the treasure left by Gold Roger at the end of the Grand Line. After hearing that it may not even be real, Nami has doubts about Luffy's goal. Gaimon tells the pair he cannot leave until his mind is set at ease about something.
Twenty years ago, Gaimon came to the island to find treasure with a pirate crew, but could not find the treasure anywhere. Gaimon, determined that there is treasure, wanders off to look further. He finds a hill the crew had looked around, but not on the summit. He climbs the hill, and finds treasure chests in a dip on the top. Astonished to actually find the treasure, he fells down the hill into an empty chest his crew found earlier and fell unconscious. After he awoke, he was stuck inside the chest, and found that the crew had sailed away without him. Realizing that he now has a claim to all the treasure, he attempts to go back to retrieve it, but as he is stuck in the chest he cannot climb the hill to reach it. He returns to the shore to call to his crew, but they never returned.
Gaimon explains that over the years, a few pirates have come to the island to find the treasure, and Gaimon has scared them off with his threats of a curse. Nami and Luffy agree to get the treasures for Gaimon, as they rightfully belong to him for guarding them so long. As they approach the hill, Gaimon gets excited that the treasure he has desired for so long is finally within his reach.
Luffy finds five chests on the top of the hill, but refuses to throw them down. Nami is furious, but Gaimon guesses what's wrong. After twenty years of guarding them, the treasure chest are revealed to be empty, looted before Gaimon ever set foot on the island.
Tearfully, Gaimon thanks Luffy and Nami for their kindness, despite learning  the fate of the treasure. Even though Gaimon is upset, Luffy lightens him up by saying that in another twenty years Gaimon might have died without knowing the treasure was gone. He then offers him the chance to join his crew and find One Piece, but Gaimon declines.
As Nami and Luffy leave, he explains that he already has another treasure to protect. Most of the people who come to the island are poachers, trying to kill the strange animals on the island. After guarding the treasure for twenty years, he feels attached to them and despite not having the treasure he can live happily protecting the island. Luffy promises to leave and find One Piece some day.

The chapter starts with Nami scolding Luffy for being reckless and ill prepared for the Grand Line. While Luffy and Zoro say the only important things they need are food and alcohol, Nami begins to plan their future. She tells them they need to head south to a nearby island to get a ship and supplies.
On an island, Usopp stands looking out to sea. He dashes into his village and begins shouting "The pirates are coming!", but as he runs further, he announces that he was lying. The villagers begin to chase him and throw objects, but he outruns them all. As the villagers lose sight of him and wonder where he went, he laughs and brags to himself that they were tricked once again. As he rests back in the tree he was hiding in, Piiman and Ninjin show up. As they wonder where their fourth member is, Tamanegi rushes up, saying that there are pirates approaching the island.
The others accuse him of lying, but he claims the ship even has the flag of the Buggy Pirates on it. After hearing this, Usopp tries to make up excuses to run away, but the others see through it. When Tamanegi mentions he could only see three pirates, Usopp changes his mind and prepares to repel the attackers.
Luffy, Nami and Zoro reach the island and land, unaware at first that Usopp and the others are watching them, but Zoro spots them. Piiman, Ninjin and Tamanegi run away, leaving Usopp alone. Usopp claims to be the toughest pirate of the village, with a vast army of followers. When Nami accuses him of lying, he accidentally admits to it: in trying to recover, he makes Luffy laugh, and he claims to be "Usopp the Proud".
At a restaurant, Luffy and the others dig into a meal. Usopp tells them that if they want a ship, they should try the mansion in town, where a sick young girl lives. Her parents died the year before, leaving all their fortune and servants to her, and making her incredibly wealthy. Nami says that they should move onto the next village and try there. Usopp offers to be their captain, but the Straw Hats refuse and keep eating, much to his despair.
At the mansion, the young girl Kaya asks her butler Klahadore if she can meet Usopp.

Piiman, Ninjin, and Tamanegi sneak across town to the restaurant where Zoro, Nami and Luffy are eating. Afraid their captain is being held hostage, they approach with caution, until they simply barge in and find Usopp gone. Seeing Luffy eating meat scares them, and Zoro jokes about having just eaten their captain. After things settle down, the Usopp Pirates work out that Usopp has gone off to visit the mansion where the sick girl lives. He apparently goes there every day to lie and tell her stories.
At the mansion, Klahadore the butler explains to his mistress Kaya that he will not allow Usopp inside, on account of his lying. He explains that it is his duty to see she is safe and well on behalf of her late father, and mentions there are two bodyguards on the front gate. Despite his efforts, as soon as Klahadore leaves, Usopp appears outside Kaya's window, claiming nothing could keep him away. Usopp goes onto tell her a story about landing on a giant goldfish's excrement and thinking it was an island, making her laugh.
Back at the restaurant the boys finish explaining to Luffy and the others why they like their captain, and Luffy announces they will go to the mansion, both to ask for a ship and to see Kaya.
After they reach the mansion, Luffy climbs over the gate. After Merry tells Klahadore that there are intruders, he enquires about the bodyguards, and Merry says that they're having lunch. As Usopp finishes his story about feeding a giant goldfish to a tribe of dwarves, Luffy and Usopp's pirates appear and greet him. Usopp tells Kaya that they've heard how great he is and want to join him, but Luffy promptly states that that's a lie. As Luffy asks Kaya for a big ship, Klahadore appears and demands to know what they are doing. Klahadore tells Luffy he will not get a ship and that they all need to leave.
Klahadore begins to insult Usopp because his father is a pirate, and that as far as he is concerned all pirates are filthy. When he asks what Usopp wants from Kaya, money or otherwise, Kaya becomes upset. She screams at Klahadore to stop, but the butler continues insulting Usopp, telling him to use one of his usual lies instead of admit to being the son of a pirate. Usopp loses his temper and punches Klahadore for insulting his father, shouting that he is proud to be the son of a pirate.

Klahadore continues to insult Usopp despite being knocked down, insisting although he is not a pirate his father's blood still makes him resort to violence when he is insulted. The butler asks Usopp if he is only after Kaya's money, but before he lands another punch, Kaya begs Usopp to stop. As Usopp lets the butler go, Klahadore warns him about never returning to the mansion, and Usopp angrily agrees. The Usopp Pirates and Luffy insult Usopp for giving in so easily; as they are told to leave, the four try to go after the butler, but are held back by Zoro and Nami.
In the mansion. Kaya refuses to eat her meal, miserably explaining she does not want it. Her butler insists she eat so as to not disappoint the chefs. Kaya tells him he should not have insulted Usopp, and Klahadore explains that she should have faith in him, since he has worked for her for three years after losing his job on the ship he worked for. He explains he could not bear to carry the burden of failing his former employer, Kaya's father, who saved his life.
Near the village, Nami, Zoro, Ninjin, and Piiman are sitting on a fence, and Nami wonders where Luffy got to. When Zoro explains he went looking for Usopp, the members of Usopp's Pirates explain Usopp will be at the coast. Tamanegi is missing, but Ninjin and Piiman tell them he always goes away and comes back overreacting about something. Immediately afterwards, Tamanegi runs towards them, shouting about a man walking backwards, only for the others to accuse him of lying. Shortly afterwards, the hypnotist Jango shows up, walking backwards. Jango is asked to show the three children his hypnotist tricks, but when he does it results in both him and the Usopp pirates falling asleep.
At the coast, Usopp sits alone on the cliff staring out to sea. Luffy appears in front of him suddenly, hanging upside down out of the tree Usopp is sitting under. Luffy asks him if his father was called Yasopp, astonishing Usopp before he asks how he knew. Luffy explains how he met him when he was young, in Foosha Village. Yasopp was his favorite member of the Red Hair Pirates, and Luffy is sure he is still be with Shanks even now. Usopp cannot believe his father is with Shanks.
In a flashback to Luffy's youth when he met Shanks and his crew, Yasopp demonstrates his sharp-shooting skills to Luffy by shooting an apple off a barrel. Later at the local bar, Yasopp begins to tell Luffy about his son his age. When Luffy has heard enough and is getting bored, a glass is placed on his head by Yasopp, who taps it. Yasopp stands up and calls to the other that the Jolly Roger had called him to piracy, with the rest of the crew responding by throwing their hands in the air in approval.
Back in the present. Usopp explains he is proud of his father and he would gladly return to the mansion, despite his pride, if the butler apologized. Luffy notices that Klahadore is on the beach below them with another man, Jango. Jango confirms to the butler that the plan to murder the mansion owner is ready.

Klahadore asks Jango to not mention the word "murder" and to stop calling him Captain Kuro. Usopp and Luffy spy on the pair and Usopp suddenly remembers the name "Captain Kuro". Usopp recalls he was a feared pirate who raided many towns and was finally put to death three years ago after he was captured by the Marines.
Jango finds it amusing his captain declared he was bored with a pirate's life, made him captain and secretly settled in the village, but so long as there is a reward he is happy doing whatever Kuro asks of him. According to Kuro, all Jango has to do is hypnotize Kaya to sign a will so he rightfully owns the mansion because "Klahadore" is not a member of the family and therefore cannot inherit her fortune otherwise. Once the task is done he must then kill her without making it look like she was murdered. Jango mocks his former captain, stating that if it was him, he would just invade the mansion and takes the riches, however Kuro reminds him that would make him a pirate again. Jango mocks him once again for asking for a peaceful life when he plans to kill everyone to get Kaya's money, but Kuro states he did not expect some things like Kaya's parents death as they died unexpectedly in an accident.
As Usopp slowly comes round to the realization of what they are hearing, he has to contend with Luffy who does not have a clue on what is going on. While he deals with thoughts related to the problem at hand, Luffy stands up and shouts to the pair below them. While Usopp is horrified at what Luffy did, Usopp grabs him to pull him down before he is seen, but Kuro and Jango look up the cliff and see the pair.
All of a sudden, Jango holds up his ring and begins to hypnotize the pair, while Usopp looks away in time, Luffy is clueless about the ring to do so. While Luffy has fallen asleep, so apparently has Jango, Usopp yells to Luffy but Luffy falls off the cliff seemingly to his death. While Usopp yells about killing Luffy, Jango asks if Usopp should be killed as well but Kuro just states even if he tells the village no one will believe Usopp on what he heard, due to Usopp's reputation as a liar.
As he rushes to the village, he passes Nami, Zoro, and the other Usopp Pirates. As Usopp enters the village and warns them, they think it is a prank again and are angry he has used the joke twice in one day. They tell him they have to punish him this time for lying as his joke has gone too far and that he is untrustworthy, telling him they would believe him if only he had been a trustworthy man like Klahadore.
Back at the coast, Kuro has gone to greet his men after three years away from them and ensure the plan in the morning. At the mansion, Kaya asks for Klahadore, another servant tells her he went to the next town. Back at the coast at the bottom of the cliff, Luffy is sound asleep.

At the mansion, Kaya and a servant discuss the glasses they brought Klahadore as an anniversary present from the next town.
In the village, Usopp is having trouble convincing the other villagers that the pirates really are coming and ends up fleeing in fear.
At the cliff, Luffy is awake, Nami, Zoro and the other Usopp Pirates are learning of the plan. Zoro questions why he was sleeping where he was, Luffy recalls being on the cliff before then. The Usopp Pirates realize they have to get away before the pirates coming tomorrow while they still have the chance to and run off. Luffy is more concerned with buying food from the butcher's shop before he is killed.
At the mansion Usopp arrives to save Miss Kaya. He tries to explain Klahadore is a pirate. Kaya does not believe Usopp and does not know what to make out of the story. As Kaya's other servant enters the room, Usopp is suddenly pounced upon by the two bodyguards out the front of the mansion, he struggles to break free. He knocks them out with his hand slingshot, Kaya beckons for him to stop. She believes Usopp is not the person she once knew. As the villagers come by the mansion, Usopp grabs Kaya, only to be slapped in the face and forced to let go. Kaya says Usopp is the worst person she knows and Usopp is forced to run when her servant gets a gun out and shots at him despite Kaya's plea. Usopp is hit by a shot in the arm, but manages to escape with his life. When Usopp is gone, Kaya faints onto his chest.
As he leaves the village, Luffy and the others catch up with him. He hides his wound from them and tries to say it was a lie to get back at the butler. The Usopp pirates believe him. The three kids wonder off home.
Later that night Usopp explains to Luffy, Nami and Zoro that because he always lies, the villagers did not believe him. Since the villagers think Usopp is lying, Usopp decides he will make the lie become just that, tomorrow he will wait for the pirates and face them off so the villagers will think it was indeed a lie. The others announce they will help him fight the pirates so he does not have to face them alone.

Usopp, Nami, Zoro, and Luffy all agree to protect the village against Kuro and the Black Cat Pirates. Usopp is scared and his knees shake despite claiming he is not. Usopp begins to make a plan, he asks Zoro, Luffy and Nami what they can do and they reply Slicing, Stretching and stealing respectively, Usopp adds his skill is "hide".
Inside the mansion Klahadore and Kaya's other servant discuss Usopp's actions of the day while Kaya sleeps soundly in her bed. Klahadore finds the glasses that were supposed to be a present for him in the morning on their 3rd anniversary, they were specially made for him so he did not have to keep pushing his back up. As the other servant continues to talk, Klahadore suddenly begins to talk strangely. He looks to the crescent moon and states it makes him wild. Before his eyes, Klahadore smashes the glasses and looks devilishly at the other servant stating his present will be the mansion. Klahadore states that he no longer has to pretend as there is only a few hours left. He pulls out his cat claws from a bag he is carrying and turns them on the servant.
On board the ship of the Black Cat Pirates, Jango is awaken from his sleep to be told in a few hours they will have to go to work on the plan. Jango leaves his quarters walking backwards out of his cabin. Back at the coastline, Usopp and the others have now laid oil down the slope towards the village.
As morning breaks everyone readies for action. Both on the coast and the pirate ship. At the mansion, Klahadore enters the room where Kaya is sleeping. Jango and the crew arrive at the coastline leading to the village. At where Usopp and the others are there are no pirates, suddenly Usopp remembers there is more than one port along the coast line and they are at the wrong one. As panic breaks out, Usopp states the layout is the same and the coast is only three minutes away from this one. Nami realizes their boats are parked at that one. As Luffy rushes off, Nami tries to follow but her foot slides as she steps on the oil, as she slides she grabs hold of Zoro and uses him to get off the oil. Leaving him behind she rushes off to save her treasure. Zoro swears he will kill her, while everyone else rushes to the correct coast.
Usopp arrives there quickly and shoots some of the pirates down. Zoro is still trapped on the slope and Luffy is back at the village after going the wrong way.

Usopp realizes he is in trouble, as he is the only one standing to face off against the Black Cat Pirates. Jango mistakes Usopp's lie about having a large number of pirates as the truth, much to the disbelief of the crew.
The Black Cat pirates find a ship with treasure on it next to theirs. Usopp comments on how it's his treasure and tries to bribe them into leaving for it, but Jango and the others just state they'll take it anyway and that they will not leave. As Jango pulls out his ring to hypnotize Usopp, Nami shows up and bashes him on the head for trying to give them her treasure meanwhile Jango has put himself to asleep (again). With no sign of Luffy, Nami tells Usopp to go fight the pirate while she supports him. As the Black Cats begin to advance forward, Usopp and Nami throw some caltrops at the pirates that Usopp brought along.
Back at the other slope, Zoro lays on his back, tired from trying to get past the oil he slipped down. Finally he resorts to using his swords to climb up with. However he faces his next problem - he does not know which direction is north. Meanwhile Luffy is rushing around with no clue as to which direction is north either.
Back at the slope, the caltrops are working and Usopp pulls out his slingshot to fire at the pirates. After taking out a few, Nami comments on how she thinks she will have a rest now, only to find some of the caltrops are behind them, which Usopp blames on her. As she turns around, she sights Usopp getting hit as the crew finally makes it up the slope.
The crew pass by him, Usopp grabs the leg of the man who hit him, claiming he will make sure the next day is as peaceful as the last for the village. As a pirate goes to kill Usopp, Nami finally steps in and knocks him away, but in turn is knocked away also. Jango orders the crew to just ignore the pair as they must get to the village before Kuro's plan goes wrong and Kuro kills them all. Usopp makes another attempt to stop the pirates; suddenly they are knocked away as Zoro and Luffy finally arrive.

On the mansion doors steps, Kuro sits and he says the word "late". He pictures the other servant laying on the floor, injured and the room cut up from his attack. He comments on if Jango and the others are late he would kill them, setting off to find out where they may have gone.
On the slope, Jango stands behind his fallen crew. While Jango is looking on in awe and commenting to his crew about being defeated by a bunch of kids, Zoro, Luffy, Nami, and Usopp argue. Jango hypnotizes the crew into thinking that they are stronger than before, with one demonstrating this new found strength by shattering the nearby cliff wall. Sending them after Luffy and the others however, it is revealed that Jango also hypnotized Luffy at the same time to Zoro's complete disbelief.
Thrown into a hypnotized induced rage, Luffy successfully knocks back the Black Cat Pirates with his Gomu Gomu no Gatling Gun. Proceeding to storm past the invading pirates, Luffy grabs the figurehead of their ship and tears it off, turning to face the pirates. Realizing Luffy's intent to whack the entire crew with it, Jango quickly hypnotizes Luffy into falling asleep, causing the latter to drop the bow and crush himself and several pirates with it, the figurehead barely missing Jango himself. With Luffy having defeated the crew, Nami, Zoro, and Usopp begin to celebrate only for Jango to remind his crew that they will face Kuro's wrath if they fail.
While Zoro ensures the others know Luffy is not dead, two new voices suddenly call from on board the ship as somebody notices the stern missing; and Jango identifies them as the Nyaban Brothers.
Back at the village, Kuro heads towards the north coast only for Tamanegi to sight him; wondering why the butler would be walking around that early.

At the mansion, Kaya has a nightmare where Usopp attempts to kill her for insulting his pirate blood. She goes looking around the mansion for Klahadore, only to find her servant Merry laying on the floor.
Merry manages to regain consciousness; however, he is too weak to get up. He tells Kaya about Klahadore attacking and trying to kill him and how Usopp really was correct; Klahadore really is a pirate. Kaya cries because the only one who knew the truth was chased away from the village while trying to protect it. More startling is the news from Merry that everyone else in the mansion is on vacation, Merry calms Kaya down since nothing has happened yet. Klahadore is after treasure, Merry tells Kaya to just give him what he is after to protect her life so the village can stay safe.
The Usopp Pirates gather outside the village, commenting how they think their captain lied about lying about the pirates coming. Just then, they spot Miss Kaya heading out of town.
Back at the coast, Zoro stands ready to fight whatever is coming up from the Black Cat Pirates next. The Nyaban Brothers, Buchi and Sham, appear. The pair appear afraid to attack Zoro. Sham runs towards Zoro in a cowardly fashion. However, at the last second Sham suddenly becomes confident and reveals he was faking his cowardice. The next thing, Zoro sees Sham standing there with two of his swords attached to his back.

Zoro demands Sham hand over his swords, but Sham refuses. Sham tosses Zoro's swords aside so he can fight Zoro, which annoys Zoro deeply. Zoro cuts Sham, believing Sham is finished, Zoro heads for his swords only to find Sham has survived on the account of the fact all Zoro managed to cut was his shirt because Sham is really skinny. Buchi enters the fight as Sham holds Zoro against the ground. Zoro manages to toss Sham aside and barely dodge the attack; the ground breaks where Buchi impacts it.
Zoro realizes that he has to fight with one sword against the pair and there is nothing he can do, and he also notes if Buchi hits him with that technique, he will break every bone in his body. The pair strike at Zoro in a fury of cat scratches, and Zoro can only defend against the pair for now. Usopp fires his slingshot in an attempt to aid Zoro, but Zoro takes the damage, leaving himself to be hit by Buchi. Nami angrily tells Usopp off for his failed attempt, but Usopp tells Zoro took the hit on purpose. Zoro yells on them that if they hit the pair, the Nyaban brothers will go after them instead.
Nami attempts to get Zoro's swords for him, however as she approaches so does Jango and he slashes her side with his ring. Suddenly, Jango gets a bad feeling come over him and the Nyaban brothers both become incredibly frightened. On top of the slope stands Kuro. Kuro demands to know why dawn has passed and his plan is not in motion.

Kuro demands to know how the Black Cat Pirates were beaten by a bunch of children. Jango states it was Kuro himself that said Usopp would not be a problem, but Kuro just states that the Black Cats are weaker than he thought they were.
Buchi and Sham cannot believe what they are hearing. They try to argue that while Kuro has been leading a peaceful existence in the village, they have been fighting hard against other pirates and plundering other villages and that in three years they have gotten a lot stronger. They attempt to kill Kuro before he kills them, but to their horror Kuro dodges the attack. He appears behind them but when they turn to strike, he once again appears behind them again with his special weapons, the Cat Claws, pointing at the pairs' throats. Jango comments how, with those weapons, Kuro can move silently and that Kuro's habit of lifting up his glasses still makes his hair stand on end. Kuro tells the Nyaban Brothers they have 5 minutes to kill them or he will kill everyone.
With renewed hope, the pair rush at Zoro. Nami kicks Zoro his swords, much to Zoro's annoyance. With all three swords in his hands, Zoro easily defeats the pair with a single move. Zoro points his sword at Kuro and states he is next. However, attention is drawn to Buchi, who still has survived Zoro's attack. Buchi demands that Jango hypnotize him so he can continue fighting.
While Zoro tackles the hypnotized Buchi, Nami makes an attempt to wake Luffy up. Jango spots this and throws his ring at her.

Trying to wake up Luffy, Nami just steps on his face as Jango's weapon comes flying through the air towards her. Luffy wakes up, angry Nami stepped on his face, and the ring goes into the back of his head. Kuro is angry because he thought Luffy was already dead. Luffy stops the ring from cutting deep into his skull by stomping his feet hard against the ground. To the horror of the Black Cat Pirates, Luffy takes the ring out of his head and acts as if it was nothing, just saying that it hurt and he wants to know who threw it. The Black Cat Pirates then realize there is no way they can beat him in the 5 minutes Kuro gave them.
Luffy yells at Nami, thinking it was her who threw the ring. But then he sees her bleeding shoulder. Nami tells him to get the fight over and done with, that it is a battle they cannot afford to loose. Luffy's attention turns to Kuro. Kuro tells his former crew that they now have 3 minutes left to kill Luffy, Zoro, Nami and Usopp. The crew state they know they cannot keep to such a short deadline even with Jango and Buchi at their aid.
As Buchi is ordered to go after Zoro while Jango takes on Luffy, attention is drawn behind Kuro. Kaya has arrived to speak to Klahadore. Usopp is horrified she came here. Kuro is surprised to see her here, Kaya explains Merry told her the truth. As Kuro speaks, Kaya begins to realize this is indeed not the Klahadore she knew. She apologizes to Usopp for not believing him. Usopp is angry she did not run away, but Kaya asks him why he is fighting for the village when the other villagers ran him out of town.
She then offers Kuro all her fortune if he leaves the village. Kuro steps in and explains it is not treasure alone he seeks, but also a peaceful life. For the last past three years he has built up a reputation with the villagers, he has created a peaceful life and the incident involving his former crew and her will are all part of the scheme. Usopp tells Kaya to run now that she has spoken to him, but instead she pulls out a gun on him, Kaya demands him to leave.
Kuro comments that she has become "stronger" over the last three years. He then recollects the events of the last three years with her, the things they did together but then as a change of tone he calls the events "stupid things" and tells her straight he has done everything for her today, the day she dies. Kaya drops the gun as Kuro goes on about enduring the boring days in the past three years. Usopp is angry that Kuro is betraying Kaya's feelings. Usopp attempts to attack Kuro, but Kuro dodges the attack. As Kuro goes to strike Usopp as revenge for hitting him earlier, Luffy intervenes. Luffy punches him and swears Kuro will have a bad day since he hates being punched.

The Black Cat Pirates are amazed Luffy hit Kuro from down at the bottom of the slope. Although Kuro just lays there, his former crew are aware this silence means Kuro is angry now.
Before anything else can happen, the rest of the Usopp Pirates come running towards Kuro and hit him with various objects (a shovel, a baseball bat, and a frying pan). Ninjin, Tamanegi, and Piiman are all angry that their captain, Usopp, came to fight without them. Usopp begs them to run away, but they only do so when Kuro suddenly appears behind them. Kuro walks past the boys and straight up to Usopp and kicks him hard. Then ignoring Usopp, Kuro asks Luffy if he got his powers from a Devil Fruit. Luffy explains he ate the Gomu Gomu no Mi which made him like rubber. Jango is amazed the rumors are true and that they do indeed exist.
Kuro calls to Jango, telling him to just deal with Kaya and the Usopp pirates while he deals with Luffy. Zoro makes an attempt to block Jango's path to Kaya, but Buchi attacks. Buchi leaps into the air, but Zoro knows Buchi's trademark attack is about to hit him and while it does not hit him, the attack is more powerful than ever. Kuro comments on how Buchi does not know his own strength. Buchi manages to pin Zoro against the walls of the slope, however Zoro refuses to lose to someone he already defeated once before and pushes Buchi away from him.
Jango walks past Zoro, who is still being blocked by Buchi and Usopp can only stare on as his body refuses to move. Usopp gives his Usopp Pirates the most important task of all: protect Kaya and get her to a safe place. They escort Kaya into the forest, with Jango close behind them determined not to let them get away. As Jango goes to throw his ring again, Usopp hits him with his slingshot. Jango turns his attention to Usopp, but he is reminded he has a task to do by Kuro.

Piiman asks the other Usopp Pirates to look back to see if Jango is following them as they escort Kaya through the forest. Just as they think they are safe, Jango's ring comes flying out through the trees in their direction, barely missing them but cutting up every tree they fly through. Jango tells them he is prepared to destroy the whole forest in order to find them.
The echoes of Jango chasing after the others can be heard back at the coastline. Kuro tells Usopp he has no feelings for Miss Kaya and if she does just happen to survive, he might thank her for being part of his scheme. As Usopp makes a break for it in order to aid Miss Kaya and the others, Buchi makes an attempt to once again get in the way, but Zoro once again blocks, this time he wastes no time with him. As Usopp makes another break for it, he falls to the ground too weak to continue on while Kuro laughs at his efforts. Usopp knows he cannot win, but is prepared to fight anyway.
Buchi tosses Zoro aside again. The other Black Cat Pirates mock Usopp and get a boulder thrown at them from Luffy. Zoro loses his temper at Buchi and finally makes the finishing strike against him. With Buchi out of the way, Zoro takes Usopp and heads out after Kaya and the others. Kuro attempts to prevent Zoro and Usopp from leaving, but Luffy sees to it that they are allowed to leave. Unfortunately, Kuro dodges the attack. Kuro then strikes back at Luffy, whom in turn strikes at him. Kuro now concentrates on Luffy only. Kuro asks Luffy why he fights for the village as an outside. Luffy tells him there is someone in the village he won't let die.
In the forest, Zoro's bad sense of direction is hindering his attempt to locate Kaya, even with Usopp's help. Elsewhere in the forest, Kaya is beginning to feel the height of her illness as the running around is bringing on her fever. The Usopp Pirates urge her on, but she asks them to leave which they refuse to. Jango finally catches up with them.

The battle between Kuro and Luffy begins, and Luffy is unable to gain an upper hand against Kuro as he is too quick and agile. After a few punches, Kuro lands on Luffy's arm and heads straight for him. Luffy gets a kick to the face for his efforts and is knocked away. The Black Cat Pirates cheer Captain Kuro on, but Kuro reminds them that they should not be calling him that anymore.
Kuro flashbacks to 3 years ago. On board his ship, where he has summoned Jango. He announced his desire to give up being a pirate and told Jango he could be captain. His crew informed him a Marine ship had been spotted, which Kuro commented was the third time this week. Jango pointed out, that after they defeat the Marines they would become more famous, which Kuro confirmed that Jango is correct on that much so he would stop being Kuro. When Jango laughed since the Marines would chase him to death, Kuro announced he would kill himself.
On deck a crew member asked if he should fire the cannons, Kuro stated that he should just lower a small boat and then head towards the Marine ship alone. When all was silent, the crew prepared the cannons, believing Kuro is dead. However upon investigating the ship, they found Kuro had killed all the Marines onboard himself. Kuro started his plan by approaching a Marine who happened to be alive and stepped on his jaw to break it. To Kuro's amazement, the Marine talked back even with a broken jaw. Since the Marine spoke back, Kuro announced he could be the one to take the great Captain Kuro back alive.
Dressing up a member of the crew to look like Kuro, Jango hypnotized the unfortunate crew member into believing he was Kuro. Then the Marine was hypnotized into believing he had captured Kuro. The pair sail away and Kuro smiled as he watched, knowing soon the world would believe Kuro was dead and he could begin the rest of his plan.
In the present, Kuro asks Luffy if now he knows what he wants. Kuro once again attacks Luffy, Luffy reacts by shoving a rock in one of Kuro's Cat Claws, then he turns with the rock in his hands and snaps the Claw's blades. Luffy then gives Kuro on how he should not be a pirate if he does not want the fame that follows with it. Luffy then goes on about his own plan to become Pirate King.

On the coastline, Kuro lays flat on his chest after Luffy has broken one of his Cat Claws. He gets up, the Black Cat Pirates encourage Kuro to kill Luffy and call his real name and not his fake name, which they remember that he told them not to call him Kuro. Kuro tells them to shut up, he already plans to kill the crew, including Jango once his plan is successful.
Back in the forest, Jango is having a hard time trying to hypnotize Kaya. She refuses to open her eyes. The Usopp Pirates (minus Usopp) lay pretending to be asleep having already been hypnotized themselves. When she refuses, he tries to force them open, the Usopp Pirates then attack, throwing pepper in his eyes and kicking him in the groin. When Jango recovers, Kaya and the others have departed. As Jango wanders through the forest, looking for them, they ambush him. Zoro and Usopp hear their voices in the forest and go to check out the noise. The Usopp Pirates continue their attack on Jango, who throws Onion into a tree as he fights back.
Back at the coastline, Kuro explains things would be more realistic if a few of the crew died here and that he planned on not letting any of his crew live in the beginning. In order to wipe out the name of Kuro, not only must his plan succeed, but his crew must die also so there is no one left who knows he is still alive. As Luffy speaks his mind about Kuro's ideas, Kuro return says more about the opinions of his own crew saying that in a true pirate fleet, all the member are pawns for the captain and should always follow orders no matter the sacrifice. Luffy states Kuro cannot beat Usopp even with the number of crew members he has. Kuro, humored by the thought, asks why to which Luffy replies its the way Kuro thinks. After punching Kuro, Luffy then states that he does not know what being a true pirate is.
After Luffy's hit and remark, Kuro tells Luffy he had insulted him and states he will show him about what being a pirate is. Kuro does a strange stance, seeing it makes the other Black Cat Pirates panic. They each beg him not to use that move while a clueless Luffy watches on.
On board the Black Cat Pirates' ship, Nami with the crews treasure, watches, wondering if the fight is over. Suddenly the crew begins to be cut up, which Luffy cannot figure out how Kuro got past him so fast. The crew state that Kuro will not stop this technique until he grows tired and there is no use trying to talk him out of it. Luffy is angered at the sight of Kuro cutting up his own crew, much to the amazement of Nami.

Luffy and Nami are still watching as Kuro continues to cut up the other Black Cat Pirates. Suddenly, Luffy is wounded by Kuro but he keeps his ground and grabs Kuro's jacket and throws him to the ground. Kuro mocks Luffy, saying he should have stood still so Kuro could kill him easier, and because Luffy stops him moving, his crew are still alive and suffering. Kuro goes to do his move again, but this time Luffy grabs him and holds him tight. Kuro is unable to move.
In the forest, Kaya agrees to sign the will if Jango stops hurting the Usopp Pirates. Jango throws them against trees and turns to Kaya, who has his hypnotizing ring and threatens to kill herself with it if he does not do what she says. Jango panics, because if he does not get the will signed before her death he is in trouble. While Kaya signs the will, the Usopp pirates pretend to be hurt. They discuss their options and agree that just because their losing does not mean they can run away. With the will signed, Jango now prepares himself to kill Kaya.
Zoro and Usopp spot them. Zoro tosses Usopp aside to stop Jango. As Jango goes in for the kill the Usopp Pirates ram a shovel between the cheeks of his rear. Angrily he kicks them aside and goes to kill Kaya, stating to Zoro he is too late to save her. But Zoro states it wasn't his goal to do so, he cuts some branches blocking a clear shot of Jango from Usopp. With the branches out of the way, Usopp now can fire a clear shot at Jango with his slingshot.
Back at the coastline, Kuro's crew cheer Luffy on. Luffy throws his head back and stretches his neck far enough back to tell the Black Cat pirates to stop cheering for him. Kuro in shock just keeps on about how his plan will not fail.
Jango is hit by Usopp's slingshot and at that same moment, Kuro also falls as Luffy pulls his head back and rams it into Kuro.

Kuro falls to the ground with Luffy still holding onto him. The Black Cat Pirates are amazed Luffy was able to do so and cannot understand how. They demand to know who he is. Luffy explains he will never lose to a pirate who leaves the sea behind and that a pirate only leaves his name when he dies. Luffy tells them he will become the greatest pirate in the world. Luffy tosses Kuro at the pirates and tells them to leave and never come back again, and all the crew members run away. Luffy collapses, and Nami catches him. With the crew rushing to get away, Nami talks about pirates.
In the forest, Zoro ties his bandana around his arm and walks through the forest away from the defeated Jango.
Elsewhere in the forest Usopp has a chat with his Usopp Pirates and Kaya. He asks them to keep the event a secret form the rest of the village, even with pleas from all, he explains he is a liar, no one would believe them anyway. Usopp explains there will be no other pirate attacks, that life must continue on as normal with no one worrying over the possibility of what can happen. Everyone promises to keep the event a secret for the rest of their lives.
Back in the village, seven o'clock passes by and everyone notices something is missing as Usopp has not done his usual antics. Piiman, Ninjin and Tamanegi return home and get scolded by their parents for one thing or another related to the events of Kuro's plan. At the coastline, Usopp thanks all the Straw Hat Pirates. Back to the mansion, Kaya tends to Merry's wounds and tells him about her promise.
Elsewhere, near a cliff, Usopp calls together his Usopp Pirates and speaks to them. Usopp declares he will leave the island and become a real pirate, to which the others are shocked. He recalls the day he met them. He asks them to chase their dreams and with a tearful farewell between all four members, the Usopp Pirates are declared defunct.

After a hard battle, Nami, Luffy and Zoro are seen eating in a local restaurant. Suddenly Kaya enters and asks if she can have a word with them. Elsewhere Usopp sits at home after packing his bag, he states it's time to leave his home, however he packed his bag with so much stuff he cannot get out of the door. He rolls away after breaking the door getting out. After rolling away from his house, he smiles and collects his things up again.
Elsewhere, Merry and Kaya show the Straw Hat Pirates the ship they intend to give them, the Going Merry. Nami comments on it being a caravel. Merry explains that he designed the Merry and explains its rudder system, which Nami interrupts and says to just explain it to her. Kaya mentions she stocked up the Going Merry with the necessary food, which Luffy thanks her for, Zoro however tells him off when he gets his thanks wrong (see chapter notes).
Everyone's attention is drawn towards Usopp who is rolling down the slope. Luffy and Zoro stop him using their feet before he hits the ship. When Usopp says he will head out to sea and meet them someday, Luffy and Zoro tell him to just shut up and get on board the ship with them as captain, which Luffy instantly states is his job.
Ninjin, Tamanegi, and Piiman watch them leave, taking their former captain with them. They are happy that although Usopp always lived alone, he is surrounded by strong people now. Piiman has an idea suddenly.
Elsewhere also watching them leave, Merry and Kaya talk. Merry tells Kaya of Usopp's past. When Usopp was young, his father Yasopp left to become a pirate, leaving behind his wife and child, Usopp. His mother fell sick and the day before her death Usopp ran through the village calling that the Pirates are coming, his father was returning to take them away. She knew he was lying, but stated she was proud she had married him and happy he left to pursue his dream and believed that one day he would become as strong as his father. Usopp cried trying to stop her from talking as though she was about to die.
After his mother's death, Usopp was then alone, but he continued to call "the pirates are coming", even though he had no need to. Merry stated Kaya needs to continue on and be strong so she does not suffer as he used to as a repayment to him for saving her.
As the crew of the Straw Hat Pirates celebrates a new member and ship, back in the village the three former Usopp pirates prepare themselves. As they call "The pirates are coming", Kaya tells Merry she wants to become a doctor someday.

On the Going Merry, Luffy displays his concept for the crew's Jolly Roger, a straw hat skull and crossbones. His art skill is terribly lacking, so Usopp decides to show off his artistic ability. After his personal mark is shot down by Luffy and Zoro, the crew and Nami paint the improved Straw Hat emblem on the sails.
After this, Luffy tries to hit a large rock in the sea with one of the ship's cannons, missing each time. Usopp displays his marksmanship, blasting the rock to pieces before quickly being named as the crew's sniper.
In the kitchen, a serious discussion is underway. There is one more position to be filled, something very important for a long voyage. Luffy agrees, and decides that it is time to search for a musician. While the rest of the crew berates Luffy for his lack of vision, a mysterious attacker calls them out. After quickly defeating the swordsman, Zoro is treated to a surprise; it is his old partner Johnny. Johnny's partner, Yosaku, had become gravely ill. Unsure what to do, Johnny went to a rock in the ocean to think, the same one Luffy and Usopp used for target practice. Johnny thinks Yosaku is going to die, but Nami assures him it is just scurvy, and has Luffy and Usopp feed Yosaku some fresh limes.
After recovering, Johnny and Yosaku formally introduce themselves to the crew.
The Straw Hats and Nami decide that they definitely need a cook, and Johnny knows of one good place to look. A few days sailing from their current position is a very special restaurant near the Grand Line, a floating restaurant.

As the crew approaches the Baratie, a floating restaurant shaped like a fish, the Marine "Iron Fist" Fullbody appears to entertaining a young lady. Johnny and Yosaku hide as to not be seen while Johnny cries over loosing to the captain of a crew that has only existed for few days old. Fullbody acknowledges he knows who the bounty hunting pair are and insults them, they try to attack him but are pummeled for their efforts off-page. Luffy insults them for "sucking" at what they are. Fullbody gives them a warning he is off duty and will not defeat them this time, however if they are a problem again he will simply beat them.
When Jonny fell to the ground, wanted posters flew out of his pocket, Nami picks one up and is suddenly distant. Despite what he said, Fullbody goes back on his word and decides to sink their ship. Luffy blows up like a balloon thanks to his Gomu Gomu no Mi powers and sends the cannonball back. However, he misses and hits the Baratie by mistake.
Inside, Fullbody and his date for the day are enjoying a meal, she notices all eyes are on him but he flatters her by saying all eyes are on her. He then drinks some wine and attempts to identify it asking for confirmation from the waiter, but the wine he ordered ahead of his date was not the wine he was given and the waiter turns out to be the sous chef, Sanji. Having being left red faced, Fullbody gets comments from his date.
Meanwhile, Luffy is pulled up by Zeff the head chef. A deal is struck that Luffy must work for 1 year to repay his debt. Luffy's crew wonders where Luffy has got up to.
Fullbody attempts to get back at Sanji by putting a fly in the soup he was given. Sanji flirts with his date and when the insect is pointed out, Sanji passes it off and just says he is not an insect expert. With his date now laughing in his face, Fullbody smashes the table to the ground. Sanji just passes it off, saying he can take the insect off since its not important as Fullbody has finished his meal anyway. With his date screaming to stop, Fullbody goes to hit Sanji. The other chefs beg Sanji to not react. Fullbody is left bloodstained as Sanji beats his ideals as a chef into him. He passes a comment that he should not berate a chef in the middle of the sea as it is suicide.

Luffy is trying to work out a much shorter time for working at the Baratie then the one Zeff proposes. But Zeff states he did the damage and now must repair it. When Luffy rudely states he will not accept, Zeff kicks him with his peg leg and offers a much faster way of repairing his debt; have one of his legs cut off. Luffy refuses once more and berates Zeff causing the chef to kick at him once more.
Meanwhile Patty is preparing himself to greet customers, although he means well in practice he is getting everything round the wrong way. To his horror, when he finally goes to work, Sanji is holding the bloodstained Fullbody by the neck. The two insult each other before breaking into a fight. However when Fullbody threatens to have the place shut down, Sanji simply states he cannot let the Marine live now. The other chefs grab Sanji to prevent the Marine from being killed, at that moment Zeff and Luffy come crashing through the ceiling. The two get up and continue to argue, Zeff's attention is drawn to Sanji as the other chefs plea for his behavior to stop. After stopping Sanji with a kick, Zeff kicks out Fullbody who comments these chefs are no better than pirates.
At that moment Fullbody's attention is drawn by one of his men who reports the prisoner has escaped from his cell and 7 of Fullbody's men could not stop him. Fullbody dismisses it, stating that he was starving when they found him and had gone for the last 3 days without any food given to him. When the Marine asks for forgiveness, the prisoner appears and shots the Marine to the ground with a single shot. He walks in and sits at a table with his feet up on it. Patty walks up to the man and treats him with respect to the horror of the other customers. When Gin threatens to pay for his food with bullets since he has no money, Patty clobbers the man, breaking one of Zeff's chairs. Patty kicks the man about to the cheering of the customers while Fullbody makes an escape.
Outside the restaurant, the man lays hungry, Sanji appears and gives him food. Sanji is happy at the man's reactions, who comments its the best food he has had in his life. Luffy comments on he has found his chef.

Luffy offers his amazement that Gin's meal saved him from death, and asks Sanji to join his crew. After introductions are made, Sanji tells Luffy that Zeff used to be a pirate himself, and the Baratie is the old man's treasure. On top of that, all the other cooks are pirate-types themselves. In a restaurant frequented by pirates, they are perfect for the job, but the waiters could not handle the fighting and quit. Luffy realizes that's why Zeff wanted him to work for a year, and repeats his offer to Sanji. Sanji refuses, and will not say why. Gin, a pirate for Don Krieg, asks what Luffy's plans to do, and Luffy tells him his goal of finding One Piece. Gin warns Luffy to not enter the Grand Line, despite not knowing that much about it himself.
In the kitchen, the other cooks warn Patty that his treatment to Gin might attract Don Krieg. What makes Krieg so fearsome is that his 'crew' consists of 5,000 men, divided into fifty crews. Patty is not scared, however, and says that giving the pirate free food would have an adverse effect on the paying customers. The fighting cooks of the Baratie have chased off attacking pirates before, and if they do not like it they can quit. Fellow cook Carne points out that's what he told the waiters. Before the argument could turn physical, Zeff shows up to quell the violence.
Outside, Luffy and Sanji bid farewell to Gin, who sails off. When Zeff appears to call the boys back to work, Sanji sends the plate he served Gin's meal on overboard, removing any 'proof'.
In the kitchen, Luffy declares that he's now Chore-Boy, and after breaking several dishes, is told by Patty to wait on customers. In the dining hall, Luffy is furious to find his crew and Nami relaxing while he's stuck working. Sanji then appears and proclaims his love to Nami, poetically lamenting the 'obstacles' between them. Zeff shows up out of nowhere and says that Sanji can go be a pirate, he's not needed at the Baratie.
Elsewhere, Gin has made it back to the crew he originally belonged to, and tells his boss, Don Krieg, that he can take the crew to the Baratie.

After Zeff asks Sanji to leave the restaurant, they start a fight. Sanji claims that he will not go until Zeff dies, which Zeff answers that he will live another hundred years.
After this interruption, Sanji continues to serve the Straw Hat table. However, he shows favor to Nami as a female. Usopp becomes agitated with Sanji's discrimination. Nami quickly realizes her advantage and plays up to Sanji asking for free food. When Zoro tells her that she is tricky, Nami warns them that they should be careful too.
Two days later, Don Krieg galleon appears. The Chefs and clients are frightened due to his reputation. However, it quickly becomes apparent that Krieg's ship is in a pitiful shape. An agonizing and frail Don Krieg enters the restaurant with the support of Gin and begs for food and water.
Patty's reaction is to call the marines so that they could benefit from his weak state. However, like he did for Gin, Sanji returns with some food, despite Carne's warnings about the pirate's treacherous past. When Carne finished speaking, Don Krieg strikes Sanji and in front of a shocked Gin, claims that he wants the restaurant ship for himself.

The chefs of the Baratie begin to flee, believing there to be no hope for survival. Gin begs for Krieg to stop what he is doing, because Krieg had promised him earlier that he would not hurt anybody at the restaurant. Krieg elaborates on his statement, saying he needs the new ship because his old one is worn out. He begins to tell them about his crew and how they are all starving or critically wounded. He demands that the chefs make his crew food at once, but the chefs refuse. Krieg gets mad, but suddenly, Sanji stands up and begins to head to the kitchen.
The chefs of the Baratie pull out their guns and point them at Sanji, telling him they will not let him make food for any more pirates. Sanji explains that he must do it because it is his duty as a chef. Patty takes matters into his own hands and knocks Sanji down and tells him he cannot allow him to become involved in the matter. Patty then pulls out his meatball cannon and fires it at Krieg. The chefs believe him to be defeated, but Krieg gets back up and shoots all the chefs with his pricks.
Krieg states that he is the strongest and that those who defy him must die. He begins to brag about his suit of armor, weapons, and battle experience. He demands they follow his orders due to his extensive and violent past. Suddenly, Zeff appears with a bag of food and hands it to Krieg. The chefs begin to complain, but Zeff then explains that the Krieg Pirates are nothing more than defeated warriors of the grand line. The chefs are shocked to hear this, and Krieg realizes who Zeff really is; Red-Leg Zeff.

Don Krieg is surprised to learn that Zeff is alive. Zeff replies nonchalantly to Don Krieg that it has nothing to do with him, whether he is dead or alive, and that he is living as a cook now. Krieg is amused and comments that from his point of view, Zeff is not living as a chef by choice, but because it is the only thing he can do. Zeff is angered but does not say a word.
Krieg then proceeds to tell the story of Red Leg Zeff, a once infamous pirate, who refused to use his hands in battle as he was a master of kicking. His destructive kicks could pulverize bedrock and leave a clear imprint on steel. He was both the chef and captain of his own crew, and he obtained his epithet, Red Leg, from his legs being dyed in the blood of his enemies after a fight. According to rumor, Zeff was supposed to have died in a shipwreck. Krieg deduces that Zeff only managed to survive the shipwreck by sacrificing his leg. Therefore, Krieg concludes that Zeff is unable to fight anymore, forcing him to retire as a pirate and instead become the chef of the Baratie. Sanji is visibly shocked upon hearing the story, but Zeff acts indifferent, saying that he still has his hands, which allows him to cook.
Zeff questions what Krieg is getting at, and Krieg replies that, since Zeff once traveled to the Grand Line and returned safely, he must have a log of this journey, and that he wants it for his future journeys. Luffy shows excitement in hearing about the chef's expedition to the Grand Line. Confidently, Zeff confirms that he does indeed have a log, but refuses to hand it over since he sees it as a memento of his former life.
Frustrated, Krieg declares that he will then have to take Zeff's log by force. Krieg acknowledges that he came back from the Grand Line defeated but claims this is only due to a lack of information. Upon stating this, Krieg again declares that he will steal Zeff's log, along with the Baratie. This angers the Baratie Chefs, and they declare that they will not let Krieg take their home from them. The chefs advance towards Krieg but get pushed back by his attacks. Krieg laughs and claims that once he gets Zeff's log, he will reassemble his pirate fleet and then find One Piece, in order to become the greatest pirate of the era. This causes Luffy to stand up and challenge Krieg, worrying the Baratie Chefs. Luffy states that he will become the Pirate King. Zoro, sitting next to Usopp at a table, casually asks Luffy if he needs a hand. Luffy says that there is no need, as he can handle it himself. Krieg laughs at Luffy's small crew and tells Luffy to stop messing around. Krieg tells Luffy that even with his fleet of 50 ships carrying a crew of over 5,000 people, they were wiped out in a week, which Krieg still claims is due to a lack of information. This intrigues Zoro but terrifies Usopp.
As Krieg demanded for food for his crewmates, to which the Baratie chefs clearly denied, weakened by the past experience and struggle, Zeff hands over the food for Krieg's crew. Krieg then leaves the restaurant to feed his starving crew and gives everyone an ultimatum- either hand over Zeff's log and the Baratie ship, or they will all die. Claiming ignorance, Gin apologizes to Sanji, but Zeff dismisses the need for an apology. The Baratie Chefs accuse Zeff of siding with Sanji, the man they insist is trying to destroy the restaurant. The head chef silences them, justifying Sanji's actions by asking if any member of the staff ever experienced starvation. After the situation is controlled, the ultimatum leaves the chefs in a dilemma: either fight or run away. They end up deciding to protect the Baratie, as it is the only place where they all feel accepted. Meanwhile, Gin tries to discourage opposition. Sanji explains to Gin that, even if he feeds anyone who is starving, the enemies of the Baratie are already fed, so he will not hesitate.
Luffy sits next to Usopp and Zoro and asks if his crewmates also approve of Sanji, but Usopp is exclusively terrified about the imminent attack. After Luffy asks Gin about his knowledge of the Grand Line, Gin tells them of the fierceness of the ocean, especially after the crew was almost annihilated by just one man. This revelation causes a commotion in the restaurant. Furthermore, when Gin discloses the one responsible for his crew's demise is Dracule Mihawk, Zoro appears alarmed.

Zeff knows of a man with "hawk eyes" who seems to fill Gin's description. While the eyes alone aren't enough of a giveaway, the fact that he destroyed Krieg's entire fleet is more than enough proof that he is referring to the man he is thinking of. As Usopp and Luffy discuss never hearing of him, Zoro clarifies that is in fact the man he is looking for. Zoro's puzzled look from the previous chapter comes from the fact that he is looking for that same person, and that he was thought to be found nearby, according to some information Johnny gave him. As some of the chefs discuss a previous customer who get really drunk, Zoro decides that Johnny must have gotten his information mixed up. Sanji asks if perhaps the hawk-eyed man bore some kind of grudge against them, but Gin states that he recalls nothing like that, and that he just attacked them. Zeff proposes that maybe they disturbed his afternoon nap, enraging Gin at the possibility of that being the only reason. Zeff implores him not to get so upset, as such a thing is common in the Grand Line. This further excites Luffy, and he consequently decides that they must go to the Grand Line. Zoro agrees that his goals are undoubtedly tied to the Grand Line, prompting Sanji to label them all as idiots who would rush to their deaths. Zoro acknowledges that Sanji may be right, but warns against calling them idiots. He explains that the day he decided to become the World's Greatest Swordsman, he threw away all attachment to his own life, and thus he is the only person who has a right to call him an idiot. Luffy and Zoro chime in agreement. While Sanji expresses his disapproval, their conviction noticeably stirs something in him, prompting a smile from Zeff. Patty rushes in and reminds them all that Don Krieg's fleet is still parked in front of their ship.
Meanwhile, Don Krieg's crew recovers thanks to Zeff's food offering. They are rejoicing at being saved, and finally making it back from the Grand Line, which is also known as the "Pirates's Graveyard". However, Krieg tells them the plan is to actually return to the Grand Line. When he sees the lack of motivation in his men to return to where they were almost killed, he fires on a man who criticizes his decision. The crew quickly changes their mind and obey Krieg's orders. He then explains that they will steal the Baratie, not worried about the opposition since they are mere chefs.
When Krieg's men attack the restaurant, their galleon is suddenly cut in half. The men are in disbelief as nasty waves rock the boat. Krieg's subordinates try to tell him that the ship has been cut, but he refuses to believe that someone could cut a ship as big as theirs. Luffy, Zoro, and Usopp worry for the others, remembering that the Going Merry was outside in close proximity as well. When they head to where they left the Going Merry, they find Johnny and Yosaku almost drowning without a ship. The bounty hunters tell them the abominable truth; Nami fled with the Going Merry and all their belongings. At the same time, Zeff looks and notices a man on a small boat drifting towards them.

As the Krieg Pirates find themselves reeling from the devastating attack to their ship, Johnny again apologizes for allowing Nami to escape them with the Going Merry. In a flashback, Nami was looking through known bounty posters, having stopped at a particular one for  20,000,000. Nami then started to act strange, furthering Johnny and Yosaku's interest. They tell her that the pirate featured in the poster had been quiet for a while, but recently started rampaging again. As they are talking, she moves Johnny and Yosaku's treasure to the Going Merry's deck and asked them to turn around as she changed clothes. While the two fought their temptation to peak, they were suddenly pushed overboard by Nami. Nami told them she had a nice time, but since she was a pirate thief, there were no exceptions. She says goodbye, and tells them that if fate truly links them, then they will meet again.
In the present, Zoro and Usopp are upset (Zoro for being betrayed, Usopp for losing the Going Merry). Luffy spots the ship on the horizon, and tells his crewmates they're going after her. Zoro tries to say that no good will come of chasing after a thief like Nami (To which Usopp retorts she stole their ship), but Luffy tells them that he will accept no one else as their navigator. Zoro wonders why he followed such a troublesome captain, but nevertheless agrees with his captain's orders and prepares to set sail along with Usopp, Johnny, and Yosaku on their ship. Luffy is not able to join as he still has debt to repay to Zeff, and Zoro warns him to be careful. As they begin to part ways, one of Don Krieg's subordinates yells to him that the man who destroyed their fleet has returned to kill them all.
Aboard the Baratie, the chefs discuss the man slowly drifting towards them, before Zeff confirms his identity: the "Hawk-Eyes" man is introduced as Dracule Mihawk, the world's greatest swordsman. Zoro is in absolute disbelief, and the Krieg Pirates demand to know why Mihawk has followed them. He tells them it was simply to "kill time" inciting the anger of one of the pirates to the point he attempts to shoot him. Mihawk draws his blade and easily redirects the bullets away from himself. While some Krieg Pirates believe he simply missed, Zoro corrects them and tells them that he actually changed the trajectory of the bullets with his blade. Zoro tells Mihawk that he's never seen such a sword handled so gracefully, with the Master Swordsman replying that there is no strength in swordplay without grace. Zoro asks Mihawk if he cut the ship as well. When Mihawk affirms, Zoro is absolutely certain that he is indeed the strongest in the world, a goal he tells Mihawk that he himself is trying to reach. He then challenges Mihawk to a duel as Mihawk said he was looking to kill time, as the Krieg Pirates and the Baratie staff realize Zoro is indeed the "Pirate Hunter" they've heard of before. Usopp tries to warn Luffy that the Going Merry is getting farther away from them, but he ignores it as he has now become focussed Mihawk and Zoro. Mihawk disembarks his ship and approaches Zoro, but doesn't seem interested in dueling him and calls him a weakling. He tells Zoro that if he were truly a great swordsman, then the difference in their powers would be obvious without the need to cross blades, and asks if this desire to duel comes from his conviction or ignorance, Zoro replies that he is doing this for his own ambition, and to fulfill a promise to a friend.
The scene then changes to Nami sailing away on the Going Merry, she has already begun to miss the crew. She comments to herself about how she thinks  they are good people, and wonders if they will still call her a friend when they meet again, if they meet again. As the scene gets closer to her face it's revealed that she is crying, saying that she just wants to be free, and addressing someone named Bell-mere.

Having now fully drawn his swords, Zoro expresses his shock at meeting the World's Greatest Swordsman Dracule Mihawk so early in their adventure. The impending duel has garnered the full attention of everyone present; Krieg Pirates, Straw Hats, and Baratie staff alike. However, Mihawk humiliates him by answering his request with a pocket knife, which was the pendant he was wearing around his neck. He states that he isn't like most fools who would go all out to hunt a mere rabbit. He goes on to explain that while Zoro may have earned some fame as a swordsman, the East Blue is the weakest of the four seas that are separated by the Grand Line and Red Line. He actually regrets that he didn't have an even smaller knife. Zoro is now furious at the degree to which he feels underestimated and prepares to attack, telling Mihawk not to regret it when he dies. As Zoro charges, Mihawk likens him to a frog in a well; stating that its time he experiences the real world beyond his little well. Zoro attempts to use "Oni Giri", but Mihawk effortlessly stops all 3 katana with the tip of his knife. Luffy is visibly surprised, while Johnny and Yosaku can't believe that one of Zoro's signature techniques was stopped so easily. Zoro himself considers how no man has been able to stop the technique before, and yet Mihawk countered it so easily with a "toy". The shock sends him into a frenzy, ferociously swinging at Mihawk while he wonders how the real world could possibly be so far out of reach with all his training and preparation. Mihawk continues to dodge and counter without so much as breaking a sweat. Zoro remembers his promise to Kuina, and redoubles his efforts. Mihawk notices his mental anguish and questions what burdens him so, and why he seeks the ultimate power. He again calls Zoro a weakling, this time angering Johnny and Yosaku to the point they attempt to intervene, but Luffy stops them. Zoro gets back on his feet, and prepares the "Tora Gari".
This time Zoro remembers his promise to Luffy instead, and how Luffy's reaction was that he'd expect nothing less of him to be standing at his side as Pirate King. Before Zoro could land the attack however, Mihawk pierces him in the chest with his knife. While everyone is shocked at the devastating blow, the biggest surprise comes from Mihawk, as Zoro simply stands there with the knife in his chest. He asks Zoro why he refuses to step back, and Zoro doesn't really know himself. He explains that if he were to take even one step back, it would be like stepping back on every vow he's made to this point, which would prevent him from ever making it back to where he is now. Mihawk states that such is defeat, but Zoro feels that is even more reason not to step back. Mihawk questions if he'd stand by this conviction even if it meant his death, but Zoro counters that death might actually be better. Mihawk is incredibly impressed by Zoro's strong display of will, and upon removing the knife from his chest, asks the latter to state his name. As Zoro complies, Mihawk finally draws his blade, telling Zoro that he will remember his name, as he does not often see his level of conviction in this world. As a gesture of respect to a fellow swordsman, he tells Zoro that he will fight him with the World's Strongest Sword.
Zoro prepares his ultimate attack, the Sanzen Sekai, as Mihawk charges toward him. The move ultimately proves ineffective, as all of his swords except the Wado Ichimonji are broken in Mihawk's attack. As his swords break, he concedes defeat and muses how he never even considered the possibility of losing. He stands to face Mihawk, exposing his chest, and extending his arms out to receive the final blow. Mihawk is puzzled, and Zoro tells him that a cut to the back is a shameful act among swordsmen. Mihawk is pleased with Zoro's brave gesture and slashes his chest open. As Zoro begins to fall from the wound, Mihawk makes a mental note that Zoro shouldn't rush his own death.

Luffy, Usopp, Johnny and Yosaku are horrified at the cut Zoro has received, while the Krieg Pirates are in pure disbelief that someone as strong as Zoro stood no chance against the power of the Grand Line. Remembering Zoro's earlier words that his ambition meant he no longer had any attachment to his own life, Sanji is still perplexed that Zoro wouldn't throw it away if it meant certain death. He states that it should be simple, yelling out to Zoro as he falls into the ocean. After having seen his first friend utterly defeated, Luffy charges against Mihawk full of rage while Johnny and Yosaku dive in to save Zoro. He does so by extending his arm all the way over to Mihawk's location, shocking everyone present, as they were unaware he was a Devil Fruit user. He is easily avoided, as Mihawk deduces that he is one of Zoro's friends. Instead of fighting, the swordsman tells him that Zoro is not dead.
As Johnny and Yosaku recover Zoro's body from the ocean, Dracule Mihawk re-introduces himself, telling Zoro that it is much too early for him to die. Mihawk implores Zoro to learn more about both the world and himself, and to become strong. He promises that no matter how long it will take, he shall await him at the top in his strongest form. He encourages Zoro to press on with his strong will and surpass his sword, but more importantly, surpass him. While Usopp, Johnny, and Yosaku attempt to resuscitate Zoro, Mihawk turns to Luffy and asks him his goal. When Luffy answers "Pirate King", Mihawk smiles and casually tells Luffy that will be much more difficult than surpassing him. Luffy is undeterred by this, and asks Usopp if Zoro is ok. Usopp says that he's still alive, and only lost consciousness. Johnny and Yosaku plead for Zoro to say something, and to everyone's shock, he lifts his blade in the air. He apologizes to his captain for making him worry, repeating his earlier sentiment to him that he would be in a real dilemma as Pirate King if Zoro was not the World's Greatest Swordsman. Fighting against his pain and coughing up blood, he tearfully vows to Luffy that until the day he defeats Mihawk and becomes the World's Greatest Swordsman, he will never lose again. He asks his captain as future Pirate King if he has any issues with this, which Luffy happily denies. Satisfied by these spirits, Mihawk turns to leave without paying much attention to the Don Krieg pirates who he was looking for in the first place. He tells Luffy that him and Zoro make a good team, and wishes to see them again in the future. This new nonchalant attitude towards Krieg angers him, and he attempts to fire on Mihawk. The swordsman deals another devastating blow to what's left of the galleon, sending Krieg's men flying. When the dust settles, Mihawk is no longer present.
Having jumped back aboard the Baratie in the wake of Krieg and Mihawk's clash, Luffy tells Usopp to go on ahead and get Nami. Usopp promises to do so, then asks Luffy to stay here and convince Sanji to join them. He suggests that when they have five people in the crew, they should go to the Grand Line, and Luffy agrees. Sanji notices that Don Krieg's men are starting to plot something. Luffy decides to make a deal with Zeff: if he gets rid of them, it will settle his debt with him.

Don Krieg decides to steal the Baratie, saying that it will make a perfect ship for the Grand Line, since no one would suspect it to be a pirate ship and when one of his crew speaks out about going back, he kills him. Krieg also mentions his plans to read Zeff's logbook to better prepare his crew for the grand line. This inspires the Krieg Pirates, and they start to attack the Baratie, to which Luffy responds by attacking them and defending the Baratie as per his agreement with Zeff.
However, the chefs are ready to fight, they release a wood platform in front of the restaurant, so that they do not have to fight into the restaurant and damage it, and Patty and Carne show off the Sabagashira No. 1 which is the fish head of the Baratie, and a paddle boat, which they use to attack Krieg. However, Don Krieg manages to subdue it easily and throw it back toward the chefs, but Sanji kicks it back just as easily showing his true strength.

The Don Krieg pirates attack the Baratie chefs. Both claim to be more powerful as they've each faced separate, but challenging perils. Patty and Carne, who have exited safely from their tank, beat back many of the Krieg Pirates and cheer on their fellow workers. They remind them they fight not for just the Baratie, but their freedom to cook and fight where they are shunned from most ordinary restaurants.
However, the self-proclaimed Invincible Pearl appears behind the two chefs. He claims to be the most powerful and proves it by beating the chef duo in one punch as he wears his armor made of pearl and steel. When Sanji see that some of Krieg's pirates take the opportunity to steal Carne's knives, he kicks away all of the pirates and retains ownership of the knife for his chef friend.
When this Pearl continues his arrogant taunts, claiming he has not even bled one time in his battles, Sanji attacks him. At the same time, Don Krieg treacherously attacks Luffy who was enjoying Sanji's show. Luffy is sent flying in the process, but accidentally fall back on Pearl's head, knocking it into his armor. Pearl lifts his head and reveals A drop of blood coming from his nose as the first time he's bled in battle.

When Pearl receives the first bloody nose of his life, he enters a berserk rage and sets his armor on fire by punching the pearls on it. Many of the chefs become frightened and warn him that he will set the entire ship on fire. However, as a cook, Sanji warns the other chefs they should not be afraid of fire as he leaps over the firewall Pearl has created.
Sanji continues to battle Pearl with his superior speed and kicking abilities. He tells them that a chef's tools include his hands so he only uses his feet when fighting. Pearl becomes increasingly upset as he is trashed by Sanji.
In order to stop him from destroying the ship, Don Krieg throws a knob toward Sanji and Pearl. Luffy is able to deflect it with his Gum Gum Bazooka. The knob instead destroys Don Krieg's ship mast which falls over and subsequently renders Pearl unconscious.
However, the Krieg Pirates have not said their last word. While they were fighting, Gin has taken Zeff down and threatens to take his life as he holds a gun to his head.

Taking Zeff hostage, Gin asks Sanji to leave the ship. Sanji refuses and tells him to go to hell. What might appear as a very egotistical reaction on Sanji's part, turns out to be a gesture of sacrifice. Indeed, Sanji asks Gin to point the gun at him instead of the owner, and when the newly conscious Pearl attacks him, he does not avoid or counter him anymore. Luffy gets ready to punch Pearl, but Sanji yells at him to stop. If they do anything further to harm the Krieg pirates, Gin is highly liable to act on his threat. Sanji knows this, and holds himself accountable for Zeff and the Baratie. The reasons behind his weird shift in behavior are hidden in the past of these two chefs: Sanji blames himself for having destroyed Zeff's former life, his dreams, and his strength. He does not want him to lose anything more and would die rather than give Don Krieg the Baratie.
Pearl takes this opportunity to wallop Sanji, since he won't raise a finger to possibly endanger Zeff. The cooks around them are dying to know what could have possibly happened to them so long ago, because they were under the impression that Sanji had hated the head cook. While Sanji is down after several attacks from Pearl, two words come to mind before the scene flashes back in time: All Blue.  Nine years ago, young Sanji was an apprentice chef on the Orbit cruise ship. He one day told his older chef companions about his dream to find the All Blue, a legendary sea where all species of fish and seafood from all the world's oceans could be found. After mocking him for believing that such a sea exists, they began to eat the many leftovers left by the clients. Sanji finds this disgusting, and berates them for eating scraps, when there is still fresh food and their next port of call is only two days away. The more experienced cooks reply that on the sea, one does not know what may happen. A sea-faring cook must take advantage of whatever resources are available. He doesn't see the allure, and rejects their leftovers again.
Suddenly people on the deck began running and yelling for help. The ship is being attacked by Zeff and his crew, the Cook Pirates.

9 years ago, a cruise ship was attacked by pirates, fresh from their journey to the Grand Line. They are the fearsome Cook Pirates captained by the chef pirate Zeff. The two captains meet, and hardly a second passes after the cruise ship captain asks their demands when Zeff commands his men to take everything of value. After pillaging, they bring back their spoils to the deck, in order to transfer it to their ship. Zeff notices something amiss with one of the bags that his underling set down, and he commands him to stop. The pirate knows he has been caught stealing food from the bag, and he starts to make excuses, but Zeff delivers a megaton force kick and sends him across the deck. Zeff reiterates that you should never touch someone else's food. Meanwhile, Sanji does not accept this fate and has decided to bravely attack the pirates with his cooking knives. He is easily beaten but does not surrender. The young boy does not want to die, until he has realized his dream to find All Blue. Upon hearing this, Zeff has a pensive look on his face, as if he is considering Sanji, but all the other pirates burst into raucous laughter, stating that such a place does not exist, even on the Grand Line.
With the storm getting stronger, Zeff orders his men back to their ship. But a large wave catches Sanji and he is thrown overboard. Immediately, Zeff snaps a mast off with a kick and grabs it while he jumps in to save him, against his better judgment. Unfortunately, an even bigger wave smashes both ships to pieces, and all is in chaos as the storm goes on.
After a few days, Sanji wakes up on a large rock, deserted at sea. He sees that he only has Zeff for a companion, and starts when he realizes the possible threat. After being kicked though, it is evident that he is in no condition to move so fast. Sanji asks about his ship, and Zeff guesses that there were no survivors. The wreckage of his own ship around him indicates that no one is likely to have made it. They have no choice but to wait for rescue, which they both know is unlikely, due to their precarious situation. He informs Sanji that the storm was two days ago, and they were washed up on this barren rock, stranded with no resources whatsoever. They still maintain their rivalrous banter, but Zeff at least deigns to give him a portion of some food that washed up with them. Sanji complains at how much bigger Zeff's portion is, but he only says that he needs more since he is bigger. Sanji isn't at all happy about this, but Zeff has complete control of the situation, and without this food, they face the horrible possibility of having to resort to cannibalism. Zeff tells him to stay on one side of the island, while he goes to the other, so they have a greater chance of spotting a ship.
Now alone, Sanji watches the sun setting over the ocean. He is very hungry and turns to look at his food supply, but thinks on what Zeff said earlier: Normally, it would be enough food for five days, but as chefs, they should be able to make it last longer. He hangs his head, starving but determined to stick it out. On the other side, Zeff holds a boulder aloft, and through a piece of wood clenched in his teeth, he says determinedly that this is the end of "Red Leg" Zeff. He brings the rock down on his leg, severing it just below the right knee.

Sanji tried to divide his small portion of food wisely, but after 25 days he had only one piece of moldy bread left. He had only seen one ship that did not even see him pass. After 70 days, weak and hopeless, he decided to reach Zeff to steal his food.
Upon arriving, he found Zeff's bag was still almost full. He became enraged and approached Zeff with a knife, declaring he was taking the food and did not care about him. However, when Sanji opened the bag, he found it had only been filled with treasures. Sanji realized that Zeff had given him all the food and that he had only survived by eating his own leg. When asked why he acted such foolishly while they hate each other, the pirate revealed that, he too, believed in the All Blue and that he was trying to find it in the Grand Line. However, now that he no longer has his crew, he could not realize this dream anymore. He decided if they were rescued, he would retire from piracy and start a restaurant.
The miracle occurred, after 85 days, the ship Sanji had seen came back and saved them.
Back in the present, Sanji's behavior makes more sense: in the memory of the old man that saved his life, he will not allow anyone to kill him or steal his last dream.

Sanji continues to let Pearl assault him as he has decided to die rather than let the Baratie be taken by the Krieg Pirates. Luffy becomes angry as he does not understand how Sanji's death would repay Zeff's sacrifice. To put an end to Sanji's suicide, he destroys the Baratie since it is the target of Don Krieg. While Sanji and Luffy fighting about the best solution to save Zeff, Pearl decides to attack them. However, he is stopped by Gin, who defeats him with one blow. He proclaims he will take care of Sanji's death, personally.

Gin promises he will honor Sanji by killing him by his own hands. Sanji has little reaction to Gin's threats. This also goes for Luffy, who does not see himself loosing in front of such a crew.
For the Krieg Pirates, who see themselves as the most powerful of East Blue, this is unforgivable and they rush the two kids. However, they are immediately stopped by their captain; while he is here they have not to be worry of who is the stronger. However, when Krieg asks Luffy the question of who is stronger, Luffy naturally responds that he is the strongest one here.
In order to make him realize the difference between the two of them, Don Krieg threatens Luffy with one of his strongest weapons - the poison gas MH5. Krieg fires the bomb at the Baratie. When Luffy attempts to bounce the bomb back, it reveals to actually be a shuriken bomb and not a poison bomb. Hurt by the sharp stakes, Luffy admits he was tricked, but he continues to assert that he is the strongest. As his anger rises, Don Krieg asks Gin to take care of Sanji. He tells him he will deal with Luffy personally.

Sanji and Gin fight but their attacks cause little damage. They find their abilities are equally matched. The Krieg Pirates estimate that Gin will lose, but Don Krieg says Gin's fighting abilities will no give out. He explains that Gin is a calm and collected "Demon". He tells them that Gin can kill his opponents without pardon and many people have called him "The Demon". That's why he had placed him as the battle commander in his armada. Due to his injuries from fighting with Pearl, Sanji is cornered by Gin. Patty and the other Baratie cooks become worried.
Meanwhile, Luffy attacks Don Krieg, but Don Krieg releases his armor and plans to kill Luffy. He shoots Luffy with bombs and spears. That spears impale Luffy's foot, and he almost falls into the ocean. Luffy asks if Don Krieg is not serious to fight him directly. Krieg answers the most important skill in fighting is to kill the opponent. Krieg jeers that Luffy is a monkey because he attacks without strategy.
Don Krieg's Pirates scream that Sanji's bone is broken. Gin roughs up Sanji ten times. Gin attacks Sanji and brings him close to his death. Krieg's Pirates cheer at Gin's win. When Gin prepares to execute Sanji, he remembers how Sanji gave him food. Gin begins crying. He admits he cannot kill the only man who treated him kindly in his entire life.

Don Krieg is disappointed with Gin because he disobeys his order to kill Sanji. Before that, Gin was the person he trusted the most. Krieg sees excess in Gin's personality that will win in the battlefield. Gin says he will always respect and admire Krieg. However, he cannot kill Sanji and requests to let the Baratie go free. Krieg becomes angered at Gin's gall. The Krieg Pirates remain confused about what happened to Gin.
Krieg prepares to shoot his MH5 bomb. All of Krieg's crew pull out their masks to survive. Krieg demotes Gin and asks him to throw away his mask. The Don Krieg Pirates cannot believe that Krieg would kill Gin. Gin was very loyal, such as when the crew hazed from Fullbody, Gin went alone to the ships of the Marine and masqueraded as captain. Gin always sacrificed himself to save Krieg and he did anything to win, that's why people called him "Demon".
Meanwhile, Luffy attempts to stop Krieg, but fails. Luffy takes back his step and announces he will save Gin from Krieg. But Gin still believes in Krieg as his commander and throws away his mask as he was commanded. Krieg shoots the MH5. The Baratie cooks escape by diving underwater and Krieg's crew uses their masks to protect themselves from the poison gas.
Thinking quick, Luffy takes two masks away from some of Krieg's pirates. He gives the masks to Sanji and Gin. When Luffy wants to take a mask for himself, no masks remain. Suddenly, he spots a mask as the MH5 activates and places it on his face. After 5 minutes, the gas dissipates and Gin is revealed to have not worn his mask. Luffy realizes that Gin selflessly gave him his mask.

After Don Krieg shoots the MH5 gas bomb, he further angers Luffy and Sanji by claiming that Gin is garbage and it's proper to die by his own hands as his commander. Krieg's crew cannot believe what is happening to Gin at Krieg's hands. Patty and Carne emerge from the restaurant, and Sanji immediately calls to them for any antidote the Baratie may have. They show a little hesitance to help an enemy, but Sanji urges them to comply. Zeff lets them know that they need to put a gas mask on him right away, to use whatever antitoxin might be left in it. Then take him up to the upper deck for clearer air, as this could be the only way to save him. Patty and Carne are amazed by this quickly-placed wisdom, until Sanji snaps them out of their stupor, and they rush to help.
Luffy becomes angry with Krieg and tells Gin that he can't die and has to survive to spite his terrible captain. Krieg estimates that Gin has about an hour left to live. Luffy promises to beat Krieg no matter what, but Gin is still certain that he cannot beat Krieg. He gets carried off, and Luffy turns to confront the pirate captain, but he is held back by Sanji who doesn't want him to get killed. But Luffy brushes the hand away and firmly states, "I won't die," then rushes headlong toward Krieg, fearing no bullets or stakes. Sanji is forced to accept Luffy's decision, and Krieg smirks at Luffy's stubbornness - what he perceives to be reckless foolishness.
Don Krieg mocks his repeated attempts as he tosses bombs at the bridge in front of him, welcoming Luffy to his grave. The explosion again creates a wave that obscures the bridge in sheets of water, and Krieg fires another round of stakes. Sanji hears the stakes come in contact with Luffy, and Krieg notes how his enemy would rather die than retreat with mild intrigue. Defying all norms, Luffy crosses through the mist, now sporting a stake in his side and his left shoulder, but otherwise undeterred. He uses Krieg's tactic against him when he flips forward to crash the surface of the water with an outstretched leg. He stretches his arm behind him with the intent of punching him through the screen of water. Krieg sees that he is determined to land a hit no matter the cost, so he thinks fast and implements his porcupine cape, a cloth studded with spikes large enough to cover his whole body. He thinks himself invulnerable, but Luffy delivers a solid blow to his jaw, despite his fist meeting the field of spikes. For the first time in the fight, Krieg has been sent sprawling to the ground.
Luffy asks Krieg then, if this is his grave or Krieg's, as he pulls the stake from his shoulder. He proclaims that he doesn't have sneaky weapons like Krieg, but he's still a viable fighter who won't die here. Sanji watches on and claims that Luffy is crazy, but Zeff tells him to watch Luffy fight. While Zeff talks to Sanji, the situation with Gin unfolds, as Patty and Carne tend to him on the top deck of the restaurant.  They try to make sure he breathes, and Patty suggests making some food for him, to which Carne replies that he has already been poisoned once today. They start arguing, but get interrupted upon hearing Gin start to hack and cough. Zeff continues relating to Sanji that it's not often that a person comes along who will not quit fighting once he has his eyes set on a particular goal. Regardless of if Luffy wins or loses this fight, that's the kind of man Zeff respects, and this gets Sanji thinking.
The Krieg pirates are getting nervous, and the chefs start cheering Luffy on, having been won over by his spirit. Krieg gets up off the ground and punches at Luffy in a rage, catching him on the shoulder guard, and smirking as he fires the built-in cannon. But he pays for this miscalculation, when Luffy escapes before the blast and hooks his foot around Krieg's neck, bringing him down a second time.

Don Krieg is knocked down once again by Luffy. This creates severe anguish amongst his crew members, as Don Krieg has always gone out of a battle unscathed. However, when one crewmate states that he believes Luffy to actually be stronger than Krieg, he arises, telling them to shut up before combining his shoulder plates together to form his "Great Battle Spear", which he slams into the ground next to Luffy, creating an explosion.
The crew members are finally rejoicing as they see Krieg's secret weapon, as he discards his cape and comments that it's way stronger than the stakes he fired at Luffy earlier. While Luffy wonders how the spear made an explosion, Krieg swings it again, sending Luffy flying over the ocean, but luckily, he stretches towards a platform floating. However, due to the fact that he has lost lots of blood thanks to Krieg, and that the platform he's standing on is unstable, he soon falls to his knees.
Now, the crew members are talking amongst themselves about Krieg's weapon, which apparently creates explosions depending on how powerful the blow is. Krieg continues his assault on Luffy, who is dodging for his life. The crew members are now discussing Krieg's massive strength, as the lance weighs approximately 1 ton, yet Krieg can swing it around with only one arm.
Finally, Luffy loses balance and jumps over Krieg's blow, but this makes him wide open for an attack. However, just in the nick of time, Luffy grabs the lance before it can hit him. Enraged, Krieg slams the lance into the ground, forcing Luffy to let go. Krieg proceeds to ram his lance into Luffy, who grabs the tip, but Krieg merely whips it around, creating an explosion which sends Luffy flying. As Krieg swings again, Luffy is hit head-on. Krieg then proceeds to tell that him that he is stronger than Luffy.
However, Luffy answers by slamming his foot into the ground, breaking the spear's tip, much to Krieg's confusion and horror. Luffy tells him that he hit the tip 5 times, and that with the wide area they have landed in, Luffy can defeat him.

Luffy is able to balance Don Krieg's power. He destroys the most powerful weapon of Krieg. Everyone is surprised and cannot believe that Luffy is still able to stand on his feet. But Krieg has a lot of self-confidence and plans to defeat Luffy with it. He believes that his weapon is the most powerful weapon in the world. His energy was still powering up, and meanwhile Luffy's energy was not.
Sanji still does not believe that Luffy can beat Krieg due to his weakened condition. But Zeff says Luffy has one weapon that Krieg does not have, no fear of death. He tells Sanji on the battlefield they must have the principle to not be afraid of death. If they are afraid, they will lose in just one second. That principle was in Luffy, Zeff added.
Krieg attacks Luffy again, and wants to execute him because he is brave to challenge "The Most Powerful Captain" in East Blue. But Luffy dodges it and hangs onto a mast. Then Krieg slices the mast. Unfortunately, his attacks do not hurt Luffy. Luffy throws the mast at him. But, Krieg destroys it by shooting fire at it. Luffy replies with "Gomu Gomu No Gatling". But Krieg's armor protects him. Luffy continues using his "Gomu Gomu No Pistol" and sends Krieg flying, but the armor still does not shatter. Kriegs plans to throw bombs from top of the mast. Luffy tries to stop it and run faster. Finally, Luffy destroys the armor by using "Gomu Gomu No Bazooka" and cracks it into pieces.

Luffy finally destroys Don Krieg's armor. Everyone is shocked, especially the Krieg Pirates who watched their captain lose. Even though Krieg still lost his spirit, he attacks Luffy in the air by shooting an iron net at him. Luffy becomes ensnared in midair above the ocean. Luffy realizes he will sink due to his Devil Fruit weakness. Krieg smirks in joy realizing his last second revenge may become realizes. However, Luffy reaches out with his free hands and feet to attack Krieg. For anticipating that, Krieg asks his crew to shoot at Luffy.
In another place, Sanji is confused why Luffy does not retreat. Zeff says he cannot look down after this battle. Sanji then attacks the Krieg's pirates who were aiming arrows at Luffy. Luffy is able to successfully use his last technique "Gomu Gomu no Tsuchi". It connects with Krieg's head and Krieg is knocked unconscious. However, Luffy falls to his certain death in the ocean as he cannot swim.
Zeff explains to Sanji why he won. He explains Luffy has the courage, "harpoon", and he is not afraid to die. Then Zeff suggests that Sanji should save him as he can't swim, Sanji can hardly believe the old man waited this long to inform him of Luffy's inability to swim and quickly dives in after him.
Gin cannot believe that his captain lost. Unfortunately, Krieg can still can stand up and acts weirdly. At the same time, Gin goes to the deck of Baratie to end the battle. He punches Krieg in the stomach to knock him out. He decides to retreat with the Don Krieg Pirates and start anew.

After Luffy wins the battle with Don Krieg, Gin plans to bring Krieg with him. Patty and Carne try to stop him because poison gas was still in his body, but Gin ignores it and tells Sanji to tell Luffy "See you again in Grand Line". Suddenly, Gin vomits blood and believes he will die in two to three hours. He considers his stupidity because of his acceptance of an inevitable death and decides that he will do anything he wants in the meantime. He then recalls Krieg's teachings that if you decide something, do it without doubt, no matter how strong your opponent. Sanji listens to Gin's words, and asks Patty and Carne to give him their shopping ship. At first they disagree, but Sanji forces them with his very powerful kicking techniques.
Suddenly, in the Baratie, Luffy wakes up, and asks where his straw hat is located. Sanji informs him that his hat is in Luffy's hand. Luffy opens his band-aid and asks about the Krieg Pirates. Sanji wonders if they have gone and tells Luffy about Gin's order. Luffy wonders if Gin wants to meet Sanji again, and is scolded because his stupidity. Suddenly, Luffy remembers Zeff has promised that today is the last day of work. Luffy continues to plead for Sanji to become a crew member of his. Sanji rejects it because he wants to keep working on the Baratie because Zeff has recognized his mastery. Finally, Luffy gives up hope. Sanji maintains his promise that he will go to the Grand Line someday. Sanji asks if Luffy knows about the All Blue. Sanji then informs him about his dream of finding the place and appears happy. Zeff sees the joy in Sanji as he dreams of the All Blue and makes plans.
It's now Luffy's break time. Luffy and Sanji come to the mess hall but there are no chairs for them. A cook tells them to sit on the floor. Suddenly, Patty asks who made the soup, to which Sanji said that he made it. Patty insults it, saying it tastes bad. Sanji is angered to hear that and insults Patty back. However, everyone in the room agrees with Patty that the soup that Sanji made is really bad. Zeff tastes it too, and agrees with the cooks. Sanji becomes furious and pulls Zeff's collar, but Zeff punches him, knocking Sanji out of the restaurant. Luffy eats the soup and grins while he announces that it is delicious. Zeff then explains the scenario and asks Luffy to bring Sanji with him on his journeys, because his dream is to go to Grand Line. Unfortunately, Sanji, outside, hears their conversation.

Luffy would like very much that Sanji becomes a member of his crew, but he cannot do it unless Sanji himself agrees which he never has so far. Suddenly, a strange animal arrives at the Baratie. It is no other than Yosaku, half eaten by a shark. He has come back to ask for Luffy's help. He has located Nami but can do nothing without Luffy's strength.
While he is ok to depart, Sanji, to the surprise of every one, decides to go with them and becomes the Straw Hat Chef. He changed his mind when he heard that everybody wanted him to depart. As to comfort his decision, Zeff tells him that he regrets to have let him live.
A nostalgic Zeff is seen remembering his restaurant history. When it is time for departure, everybody becomes serious. Patty and Carne even try an ultimate revenge attack on Sanji but it proves useless as he easily beats the two back. Then, from his balcony, Zeff reveals his true feelings by wishing Sanji good luck. These are the words that break the hypocritical atmosphere. In turn, Sanji shows his gratitude to the man who gave him everything and bows in respect. They depart in the middle of the joy and the tears and bid farewell to the Baratie!

Luffy looks forward to entering the Grand Line with newest Straw Hat Pirate, Sanji. However, Yosaku warns them about the dangers of this sea. In particular he warns them of the presence of the Seven Warlords of the Sea, of which Dracule Mihawk and a fish-man pirate named Jinbe belong. He explains that years ago Jinbe had a relation with his strongest lieutenant in the East Blue, Arlong. He suspects that Nami will be near Arlong. Sanji has his doubts as he always trusts beautiful woman and had recently become smitten with Nami. Yosaku mentions that due to Nami's suspicious behavior being connected to their copy of Arlong's wanted poster, he and Johnny suspected earlier that there had to be a connection between Nami and Arlong.
Meanwhile in Arlong Park, base of Arlong's Fish-Men pirates, Arlong makes a deal with a Marine, Nezumi. He presses Nezumi to relax and celebrate in the common language that they understand, money. However, Nezumi tells him he must press on before anyone recognizes his ship in port. Suddenly, Nami is introduced as one of the Arlong pirate officers and the only human Arlong can trust.

Zoro, Usopp and Johnny arrive in front of Arlong Park. In order to prevent Zoro from foolishly attacking the fish-men, he's tied up by Johnny and Usopp while they search for the Going Merry. They soon found it anchored near a local village. Usopp, who acted bravely once away from Arlong Park, becomes a coward again once he notices three Fish-Men next to the boat. He and Johnny flee into the sea once they have been spotted, leaving Zoro alone and powerless in front of the Fish-Men.
When Usopp and Johnny pull themselves out of the sea, they notice that the village has been completely devastated and postulate it was destroyed by the Fish-Men. They are impressed by the power of these creatures. They find one of the Fish-Men has returned to the village, suspicious of Zoro being alone. While Johnny is able to hide himself, Usopp starts running until he bumps into a kid, Chabo, and a woman, Nojiko. When the Fish-Man is about to capture them, Usopp decides to act bravely for once, and tries to defend the two villagers, but is knocked out by Nojiko.
When he wakes up, the three of them are in Nojiko's house, in an orange farm. Nojiko tells them that nobody fights the fish-men because it's suicide. Chabo, a boy from Gosa Village, whose father has been killed, understands this, and returns to his mother rather than seeking revenge.
Usopp understands that Nojiko's intentions are not bad, and tells her that he is looking for Nami. Nojiko then tells Usopp that Nami and her are adopted sisters, and that Nami is a member of Arlong Pirates.

When Nojiko tells Usopp that the house he is currently in is the house where Nami lived as a child as well as informing him that they are adopted sisters and telling him that their "mother" is dead. Usopp says that Nami betrayed her village since she joined Arlong Pirates, who control her hometown, Cocoyasi Village. Nojiko questions Usopp's business with Nami. Usopp replies that he has some things to think about due to all the info he has received. Additionally, he says that all she wanted from the crew was for the treasure and asks why she saved his village and looked happy with them. Nojiko questions Nami being happy and then restates that he shouldn't start anything with the Arlong Pirates since it will lead to death. Usopp replies that he will just leave since he has found the ship. After Nojiko points out the Going Merry, Usopp realizes that they landed near Cocoyasi Village and Usopp begins to panic. Nojiko asks what's wrong and Usopp replies that he remembered that one of his crewmates was captured by the fish-men and is in a critical condition.
Indeed, Zoro has been taken to Arlong Park where he is questioned by Arlong. Zoro insults Arlong by calling him a half-fish mutant and restates that he is looking for a girl. Arlong says he will forgive Zoro once for the insult and says fish-men are superior to humans. Shortly after, Nami appears much to Zoro's surprise seeing her aligned with Arlong. Arlong says she is an exception to the human race and informs him that she is the Arlong Pirates' cartographer. Zoro questions why Nami would side with Arlong. Arlong questions if they know each other. Nami replies that he was just another victim. Then Zoro asks Nami if this is her "true self" and she answers, "yes" and that she had been aligned with Arlong all along. After Nami's statement, Arlong laughs and calls her a "cold-blooded witch" who only wants money. Nami hides her scowl upon hearing Arlong make such a statement. Zoro notices this and jumps into the pool, shocking everyone. Nami dive into the water and saves Zoro. After the rescue, Nami asks what he was doing to which Zoro remarks that he should be asking that question to her and says she shouldn't be acting tough. Nami replies that she does not want him involved in this anymore. Afterwards, Nami tells the fish-man to lock Zoro up and she will kill him later. Shortly after, a fish-man approaches Arlong saying that a longed nose human got away. Arlong says that the human is probably in Cocoyasi Village and says he has business to attend to their anyway.
In Cocoyasi Village, the villagers hear of Arlong's coming and wonder what business he has since he already collected the tribute. Genzo answers by saying that Arlong found his weapons. Arlong arrives and begins questioning Genzo on the possession of weapons. Genzo answers that it is a hobby to collect weapons. Arlong says he cannot possess any weapons since all they do is bring violence. A frightened Usopp says he is not human. Nojiko replies that he is a fish-man, and says that Nami must be at Arlong Park since she is not with Arlong. Arlong threatens Genzo by stating back when he destroyed Gosa Village due to no one paying tributes. Nojiko explains to Usopp that a tribute is the money they pay every month in order for them live under Arlong's protection. If one person does not pay in the village, the entire village is destroyed. Before leaving, Arlong tells the town to work hard for money since tribute time is approaching.
Back at Arlong Park, Nami rushes Zoro to escape before Arlong's return.

Genzo is found to possess several weapons - which are forbidden by Arlong's rules. He announces to the crowd that weapons may be seen as the start of rebellion. As a result, Genzo shall be made an example of the inferiority of humans against fish-men and be executed in front of all the villagers. While the villagers of Cocoyasi Village attempt to save the life of their friend, Genzo begs them to stay quiet as it would mean that what they have endured for the past 8 years would have been for nothing.
When Arlong is about to deliver the final blow to Genzo, he is struck by an explosion. Usopp laughs from the top of the buildings and delivers brave words of having 8,000 hardened killers ready to strike against him. Arlong go berserk, and as an answer to Usopp's insult, he destroys the house on which he is staying. Afraid that their leader will destroy all the village which they need to get money, the Fish-Men restrain him and promise to catch Usopp and take him back to Arlong Park.
After Arlong's departure, and while the Fish-Men are trying to capture the running Usopp, Nami appears in the village. Everyone ignores her besides her sister. She has come to deposit flowers on a grave. She tells Nojiko that she only needs 7,000,000 more until she can buy the village.
Meanwhile, in Arlong Park, Zoro who has been freed by Nami, has defeated every Fish-Man at the park and awaits Arlong's return.

Hatchan finishes preparing Momoo's meal and makes a trumpet sound to lure Momoo to his dinner. The sound alerts Zoro who finds Hatchan sitting on the shore. Hatchan asks who he is, and Zoro responds that he is a guest. Hatchan responds that Arlong is away at Cocoyasi village and offers to transport him.
Meanwhile Luffy, Sanji, and Yosaku are confronted by the large sea creature, Momoo. Yosaku suspects he is hungry and suggests to give Momoo. Luffy responds by punching Momoo. Sanji then berates him for hurting the beast just because it's hungry and offers Momoo food. However, Sanji suddenly kicks Momoo for trying to bite his hand. He then knocks him out when he tries to retaliate. The group then proceed to eat their lunch.
Meanwhile, Zoro arrives at Cocoyasi village. Arlong returns to Arlong Park to find his crewmates have been injured. When asks who did this, he finds out it was Zoro. At first angered, he pacifies himself after learning that Usopp has been captured. Some of his crew hypothesize that Nami was the one that let him escape, saying that betrayal is her specialty. To which Nami responds that she would never betray the crew. She reminds the crew of her promise to buy back the village fair and square, and Arlong believes her. He says they need to take care of Usopp and Zoro, while Zoro finds out Usopp was captured and heads back toward Arlong park, as wells as Luffy and company.

Realizing it has been Zoro in their grasp all along, Arlong explains that since he has the highest bounty in all of East Blue, it's natural that a bounty hunter would want to take him out. He wonders where Zoro could be, to which Usopp responds that he doesn't know and asks to be let go. Though his lie doesn't fool anyone, Arlong then gets the idea to kill Usopp to get Zoro to show up, but Usopp tells them that this won't work and asks Nami for help. Causing more doubt among the crew about Nami's loyalty, and Usopp berates her for betraying Luffy saying that even now he still trusts her, to which Nami calls him an idiot.
Hatchan then returns, and is surprised that Arlong is back and that his comrades are hurt, and is even more surprised to learn that it was Zoro who did it, telling the crew that he just gave him a ride to Cocoyasi Village because he was looking for Arlong and he thought Zoro was Arlong's guest. Which makes Arlong happy that Zoro is looking for him, Hatchan then asks who Usopp is. Nami, in order to prove her allegiance, attacks Usopp. She announces he will kill him and appears to stab him from Arlong's point of view. Johnny watches unseen from the bushes. Nami then pushes Usopp into the pool which solidifies the crew's trust of her, and she reminds them again of her goal - to purchase back her hometown village.
Luffy, Sanji, Yosaku, and Zoro all arrive at Arlong Park and are pulled ashore by Momoo.

The sea monster, Momoo, pulls Sanji and Luffy's boat at full speed onto the shore. Luffy and Sanji are then sent flying into the sky. Momoo crashes into the shore head-first and sinks into the sea in pain. At the same time, Zoro is urgently trying to find Usopp. He hears a loud noise but pays no attention to it until he is caught in Sanji and Luffy's unconventional landing. Zoro explains that they have to hurry in order to save Usopp, who has been captured by Arlong before he is killed. Zoro is about to run off when Johnny appears and informs him that Usopp has already been killed by Nami. Everybody is in shock after hearing this.
Meanwhile, the survivors of the Gosa Village observe a Marine ship approaching the shore. It is led by Commodore Pudding Pudding with the intent to liberate the inhabitants of the island. The Commodore tells his men that their goal will be to rescue the survivors of the island as well as take out the pirates inhabiting it as their sense of justice prevents them from overlooking a pirate base.
Arlong questions the existence of the 77th Branch of the Marines as he has never heard of them before. He concludes that they must be new, so he tells his lieutenants to either buy them off for 2,000,000 or to dispose of them if they turn down the bribe. Just as he finishes talking, his crew warns him of an impeding cannonball coming towards him. Arlong then catches the cannonball with his open mouth and crushes it with his monstrous jaw strength. He spits out the remains and tells Kuroobi to cancel the negotiations. Arlong's top officers, Hatchan, Chew, and Kuroobi offer to get rid of the Marines. Moments later, Chew jumps onto the deck of the Marine ship and attacks everyone on board. At the same time, Kuroobi tears off the ship's rudder, and Hatchan pushes it into the reef. The combination results in the creation of a massive whirlpool that sucks in the ship, presumably killing everyone on board.
As the officers return, Arlong apologizes for making the three go through all the trouble. They reply that it was nothing due to their fish-men strength and the maps Nami has drawn, while claiming themselves to be "invincible". Chew then asks Arlong whether he would let Nami go once she pays off her debt of 100 million belly since she is an invaluable member of the Arlong empire. Arlong replies that he would rather die before he breaks a promise regarding money. Back to Luffy's side, Luffy yells at Johnny while grabbing him by the collar, telling him that what he is saying is nonsense and that Nami would never hurt one of her crewmates. Just then, Nami appears and asks Luffy who he is calling a crewmate.

When Luffy refers to Nami as his crewmate, she tells him that he is no more than a nuisance. She says that she only stayed with them because of their money. Zoro argues with Sanji that he is making things more complicated with his romantic advances toward her. Sanji responds by saying that love is like a hurricane.
Johnny interrupts their quibbling when he yells at Nami, calling her a witch. He says that all she cares about is getting all the money hidden in Cocoyasi Village, where she is willing to join the Arlong Pirates and will go so far as to kill people in order to do so. He follows up by calling her a witch again and that she is cold-blooded. He swears that he saw her killing Usopp. Nami is unfazed and asks Johnny what he is going to do about it. Johnny is taken back by surprise.
She also tells them that if they want to live, they better stay out of Arlong's business because he is infuriated by Zoro's stunt. Nami says that Luffy and his crew may be monsters, but they are no match for the real monster. Zoro responds by saying that he couldn't care less and asks where Usopp is. Nami tells him that he is at the bottom of the ocean. Irritated, Zoro tries to attack Nami, but Sanji stops him. The two of them begin to argue. Zoro tells him to not interfere when he has no idea what is going on. Sanji ignores him and tells him that he is just irritated after his loss with Mihawk. Zoro gets mad and points his sword toward Sanji's neck. Sanji taunts him and tells him to just try. Yosaku tells the two of them to stop because they are in a serious situation right now.
Nami tells them to leave and go fight elsewhere and she couldn't care less, bidding them farewell. Luffy then immediately fell asleep on the spot, announcing that he was sleepy and could not care less about what was happening on the island. Nami then yells at him, saying that he can die for all she cares. Afterwards, Johnny and Yosaku decide to part ways with Luffy and the others because they are afraid of getting hunted down and killed by Arlong. They tell everyone that they will meet again one day.
Meanwhile, Usopp, who is revealed to be alive, wanders through Cocoyasi Village. He wonders and asks himself why Nami would pretend to kill him but stabs her own hand instead. It then occurs to him that Nami was actually trying to save him from being killed by Arlong and comes to the conclusion that she is not a witch. Following this realization, Usopp decides to look for Zoro. He remembers that the octopus guy told him that Zoro was looking for Arlong earlier. Terrified, he assumes that Zoro could have returned to Arlong Park to search for him. He decides to run straight for Arlong Park in order to save his crewmate. However, he spots Zoro in the distance as he is running.
At the same time, Sanji asks Zoro if he thinks that Nami killed Usopp. Zoro tells him that it is a possibility as she got pissed after Usopp called her "small" last time. Sanji gets angry, thinking that Zoro was referring to Nami's breast size. Sanji and Zoro then clash, but Usopp gets into the crossfire and gets his face injured.
Meanwhile, Nojiko is out in the tangerine fields and hears the house door slamming shut. She goes inside and notices Nami with her head on the desk. Nojiko comments on the mess of thrown furniture and broken glass on the floor which Nami has made and asks her if anything is wrong. Nami says that she was only taking a little rest at first before opening up to her sister. Nojiko then understands that her friends have come to take her back and she understands why she is upset, as nothing upsets Nami more than having to say the word "friend".
Back with the Straw Hats, Luffy is shocked by Usopp's face. He asks him if Nami was responsible for it, Sanji and Zoro take responsibility for it. Usopp tells Luffy that Nami had saved him, and he feels that Nami had joined the Arlong Pirates for another reason. Nojiko then appears and tells them that it's useless and there is no way that they could change Arlong's rule. She then agrees to tell the crew about Nami's past, but they must leave after she is done.
Back at the village, 16th Marine Branch captain, Nezumi appears with his team and asks Genzo to lead them to Nami's house.

8 years ago, a 10-year-old Nami lived with her adoptive sister Nojiko and their adoptive mother Bell-mere who was raised them on an orange farm. One day, Nami was caught by a local policeman, Genzo, when she attempted to steal a book. She explained they were poor and could not afford to buy the navigation book she desired. She needed the book to accomplish her dream, to travel around the world. Genzo took pity upon the young girl and bought the book for her. Upon returning her to Bell-mere, Genzo demanded she be taught respect. Bell-mere stood up for the girl and told him she'd pay him back with love when she could. As she shut the door, she explained that Nami should have asked for the book. Bell-mere would have purchased it for her. With the book, Nami was soon able to draw her first map of their island.
One night, while Bell-mere gave Nami an old dress of Nojiko's. Nami complained that it was a hand me down and how the three of them were not blood related. She yelled in a fit how she wished she had been adopted by a family with more money. Angry, Bell-mere slapped her and told Nami that she could leave the house and live the life she wanted.
Nami took refuge in Genzo's house. He explains to her how Bell-mere found her and Nojiko. Bell-mere served in a war as a Marine, and was heavily wounded during a battle, when she returned with the two little girls who they had lost their parents. She collapsed and in her potentially final breath, she begged for her village members to save the children. As she looked down at the infant Nami, Nami could only smile as she was unaware of her surroundings and only knew joy.
In the present, upon hearing the story Nami came to realize that the love bond between the three of them was stronger than blood. She returned with Nojiko who had been searching for her.
However at the same time, pirates accosted the island. Sea-pirate Arlong and his fish-men had arrived and they declared that the land now belonged to them.

In order to stay alive, every villager had to pay 100,000 and 50,000 more per child to the Arlong Pirates. Everyone in Cocoyasi Village was able to pay and they were preparing to leave. However, one noticed Bell-mere's isolated house when he noticed smoke coming up from a chimney in the trees.
Genzo knew very well that she could not afford to pay such a high price. He asked her two adoptive daughters, Nami and Nojiko, to flee and hide. When the fish-men arrive at Bell-mere's house, she attacked them. However, she was no match against their brute force. When Genzo told her about the pirate's demands. She agreed and gave Arlong 100,000. The pirates believe she was paying for herself, as one adult. But, as they are about to leave, she told them that the money was for her two adoptive daughters. She could not abandon them and after expressing her love to the two, they attempted to run to her side. She accepted her fate as Arlong raised his gun to her head and told them it would be a warning to all villagers who could not pay. A loud bang erupted and the two children buried their crying faces in horror as their mother was executed.

After Bell-mere's death, Nami was kidnapped when Arlong discovered her ability for drawing maps. All the villagers decided to fight to take her back, but she suddenly came back by herself, revealing that she was now part of Arlong's crew. She even showed that she could earn all the money she wanted. Disgusted by this selfish behavior, the villagers rejected her. But when Nojiko went to her mother's grave, Nami was already sitting there. She explained to her sister that in order to accomplish their mother's last wish and live, they could not rebel against Arlong who was too strong for them. Instead she decided to draw maps for him, revealing that she would be able to buy her village back for 100,000,000.

Nojiko continues to tell the Straw Hats the story of why Nami joined the Arlong Pirates. She tells them that Nami sacrificed herself at a young age so that no one else in the village would get killed by Arlong, like their mother did. Sanji and Usopp are infuriated by this. Meanwhile, Zoro sleeps through the story. Sanji exclaims that he would kill those pirates, but he gets hit on the head by Nojiko. She warns him not to speak in such a manner. Nojiko tells the crew that by going around and calling Nami their friend, they are putting her eight years of hard work in jeopardy by making the Arlong Pirates doubt her. She tells them not to make Nami suffer any more than she already has. In the meantime, Nojiko continues telling her stories of her and Nami's past. Flashbacks show Nami entering Arlong's crew so that she could earn 100,000,000 and buy the village's freedom back along with her own. She remembers just how recently Nami only had 7,000,000 more to collect before her goal would be realized. Back at the village, Genzo arrives at Nami's house with the company of the Marine captain of the 16th Branch, Nezumi. The Marine captain asks her if she is the criminal he heard about. Nami replies that she guesses she is, noting that she is working for Arlong. She tells him that she is part of his pirate crew and that he should let her be. Nezumi laughs and says that he has no idea what she is talking about. He denounces Nami as a petty thief, and that the money she stole from many pirates is property of the government. Nami threatens Nezumi once again that she is part of Arlong's crew, but he remains unfazed. Nezumi orders the Marines to ignore her and search the premises for the money. Nami angrily yells at them to get away and attacks them with her staff. Genzo yells at Nezumi, telling him that the money was being used to save the village since the Marines wouldn't do anything about their current conditions under Arlong. Nami is surprised that Genzo knew about the money. Genzo reveals that he and the villagers knew about the money and what Nami was trying to do all along. They learned about it from Nojiko and never told Nami that they knew, because they were afraid of pressuring her and ended up making her run away from it all. At the same moment, Nojiko also arrives at the scene and denounces the Marines for their actions and for failing to save the village. Once again, Nezumi ignores the accusations. Nami is suspicious of Nezumi because he knew exactly how much money Nami was hiding and laughed when Nojiko said that Arlong would attack his ship if he lingered around too long. Nami finally understands that Nezumi is a corrupt Marine and that he has been sent by Arlong to take her money. Nami then goes to confront Arlong for breaking their agreement. Annoyed, Arlong grabs Nami by the mouth and laughs, telling her he did no such thing. He says he technically never broke the agreement. Nami curses him for deceiving her by way of using a loophole.

On the Marine ship docked outside Cocoyasi Village, Nezumi gleefully examines the money he stole from Nami, laughing at her stupidity to work for Arlong for her freedom this long. Meanwhile, Nami confronts Arlong in Arlong Park over her money being stolen, and Arlong acts as though Nezumi stealing it was out of his control, saying Nami will just have to start saving 100,000,000 again from scratch. He reminds her that if she tries to run away, he will kill the residents of Cocoyasi Village, and Nami remembers Genzo telling her that they had kept this threat secret to her in case she wanted to run away. Nami breaks free and runs out of Arlong Park, followed by Arlong's jeering. Back in Cocoyasi Village, a furious Genzo tells the villagers to prepare to take up arms and fight the Arlong Pirates, while Nami is desperately running back to stop them, as she knows they'll die if they fight, and that would be the end of everything. Genzo tells the villagers that they promised each other eight years ago that they would endure the fish-men's cruelty as long as it took for Nami to buy back the village, but they can no longer keep living under these conditions if Arlong has no intention of ever letting them go. However, he shouts that they'll never forgive the fish-men for toying around with Nami's good heart, and all the villagers agree with him, stating that they are more than ready to fight, and have been for eight years. However, Nami reaches them and tries to assure them that she is readily willing to save up the money again, even saying it would be easier this time. The villagers are shocked and deeply moved by her efforts. In Arlong Park, Chew laughingly comments that Arlong can be pretty heartless, with Arlong replying that he's not just going to let a navigator of Nami's ability get away from him. However Arlong replies he isn't completely heartless and that he will let Nami go eventually, but only after she has made a map of the entire world, as he and the other fish-men roar with laughter upon realizing that will take decades.
Meanwhile, Genzo does not listen to Nami's assurances, telling her that she knows it would be in vain. He embraces her, commending her for the efforts she has made to liberate them, which almost moves Nami to tears. Genzo then tells her to leave the village, and Nojiko backs him up, encouraging her sister to go and pursue her dream. Now desperate, Nami pulls out a dagger, declaring that she does not wish to see any of them hurt again, and telling them they'll die, but Genzo displays his dedication by grabbing the dagger, cutting his hand in the process, and the villagers say their hearts are set. Genzo shouts at Nami to get out of the way, and the villagers race past her toward Arlong Park, declaring their will to fight even if it is likely they will lose, leaving Nami kneeling in the middle of the street. Driven to her breaking point by rage, grief and despair, Nami grabs the dagger and begins to psychotically stab herself in the shoulder where her tattoo is, repeatedly screaming Arlong's name as tears run down her face. However, Luffy comes and grabs Nami's arm before she can harm herself further. Keeping her back to him, Nami tells Luffy that he doesn't know anything about what's happening here, and that she already told him to leave the island because this has nothing to do with him, throwing a few handfuls of dirt in his direction. Luffy acknowledges both these points, but he doesn't move or say anything further. Nami finally breaks down in tears, turns to face Luffy, and begs him to help her. Luffy responds by silently putting his straw hat on her head, before he walks forward and declares extremely loudly that he will help. Nami is shocked to have the straw hat on her head, knowing Luffy's attachment to it, and is moved to fresh tears, as well as when she watches Luffy walk toward the rest of his crewmates, who were waiting just ahead and tells them to come with him, to which they immediately agree. Meanwhile, the villagers have reached Arlong Park, only to find a battered and bloodied Johnny and Yosaku sitting in front of the gate. The pair mentions how they heard Nami's backstory from the woods, and ashamed at having doubted her character, went to confront the Arlong Pirates, but were defeated. The two bounty hunters do not intend to let the villagers pass them, as they have no chance of winning, and instead are waiting for another group of men, to the villagers' confusion. Inside Arlong Park, Arlong wonders if Johnny and Yosaku were part of Zoro's crew, and Kuroobi doubts it, saying they were too weak for that. Just then, Luffy punches the gate off its hinges and asks which of the fish-men is Arlong, much to Arlong's shock and chagrin.

After Luffy's explosive entrance, Arlong identifies himself, to which Luffy does likewise as he walks towards him. He is stopped by two of Arlong's men, stating that he needs to speak to them before continuing, but Luffy simply slams the two's heads together and knocks them out, which shocks Arlong and the other crew members. Arlong asks what another pirate wants with him, but Luffy ignores his attempts at diplomacy and throws a huge punch in the fish-man captain's face, sending him crashing into the opposite wall, appalling the rest of the Arlong Pirates. While doing so, he remembers Nami's tearful plea for help. Arlong doesn't seem to be hurt despite what just happened, and instead angrily wonders what Luffy is doing, as Luffy furiously shouts that Arlong made his navigator cry.
After this declaration of war, the fish-men attack Luffy. However, they are easily knocked back by a few kicks from Sanji, further angering Arlong. As the rest of the crew enter, Sanji berates Luffy for rushing in ahead, but Luffy replies that he won't lose. Sanji retorts he wasn't worried about Luffy, and simply wanted him to leave some fighting for the rest of them. In the very back Usopp says he doesn't mind if Luffy doesn't share, and Zoro needles him over his lack of courage. The rest of the pirates are surprised to see Zoro, with Hatchan particularly enraged after Zoro tricked him, and they are shocked to see that Usopp is still alive as well. Just outside, The rest of the villagers are astonished by the Straw Hat's abilities. Johnny and Yosaku state that even even those four can't defeat the fish-men, there's no hope for the East Blue, and they again make their dedication to preventing the villagers from interfering clear. Genzo demands to know why these men are going so far for their sake, and the pair simply declare that it's enough of a reason that they made Nami cry. Arlong realizes that the four are here for Nami, but he simply laughs, asking what humans can possibly do to fish-men. Hatchan states that Arlong doesn't have time to waste on them, as he summons Momoo with his trumpet-call, to the horror of the villagers and Usopp, as it's revealed he was the one who destroyed Gosa. However, Momoo is still hurt from his earlier encounter with Luffy and Sanji, who are not very surprised to see him again. Remembering the beating he received at their hands, Momoo turns and runs, to Hatchan's bewilderment. Arlong then demands to know if Momoo is running, and while he says he won't stop him, he smiles evilly while doing so. Momoo freezes and begins shaking in fear before deciding he's more afraid of Arlong than he is of the Straw Hats, and turns around and charges them, with the rest of the fish-men following. As the Straw Hat crew ready for a fight, Luffy angrily states that this is a waste of time. He stomps the ground hard enough to embed himself in the rock up to his ankles, winds his body up, and stretches his arms out to grab Momoo's horns, shocking the fish-men with his reveal of his Devil Fruit abilities. Zoro shouts for Sanji to run for it, as he has a bad feeling about what Luffy's about to do, which is confirmed as Luffy uses is wound up body to swing Momoo around him in a giant circle, slamming him into fish-men and the pillars holding up the canopy of the tower, collapsing them. Luffy then sends the unconscious sea cow flying off into the water, as he dramatically turns to Arlong and states that he's only here to beat up him. Arlong, now thoroughly enraged, declares that's perfect, as he now plans on killing Luffy himself. Hatchan, Kuroobi, and Chew prepare to enter the fight themselves, which Zoro is excited about. Meanwhile, Usopp and Sanji angrily berate Luffy for his reckless move.

The citizens of Cocoyasi Village express their shock at Luffy knocking out Momoo with his windmill attack, and the Straw Hats prepare to take on the Arlong Pirates. Chew, Hatchan, and Kuroobi tell Arlong that he can sit back while they deal with the Straw Hats as if he were to fight, Arlong Park could end up being destroyed, and Hatchan shoots out a massive ink spray from his mouth. Luffy is caught by the ink spray and is blinded; he also accidentally planted his feet in the concrete and cannot move. Hatchan picks up a massive piece of the tower that Luffy damaged and slams it onto him, but Sanji steps in and destroys the piece with his leg. Sanji addresses the fish-men, who try telling him about their superiority to humans, while Usopp unsuccessfully tries pulling Luffy out of the ground.
Hatchan ignores Sanji to throw another chunk of the tower at Luffy, but he is confronted by Zoro. Hatchan throws the large chunk at Zoro and expresses his anger at what the human pirate did to his comrades earlier, but Zoro pays it little mind and simply states that the Arlong Pirates will be beaten. Usopp is relieved that Zoro took on Hatchan, but accidentally lets go of Luffy, causing him to snap back to where his feet are planted and hit Chew with the recoil. An enraged Chew chases after Usopp, who runs all the way out of Arlong Park. Chew stops in front of the citizens, and notes that their weapons indicate a rebellion against the Arlong Pirates, but Usopp then snipes him with Kaen Boshi. Usopp tells Chew that he is his enemy, but starts running once Chew chases him again, confusing the citizens.
Meanwhile, Arlong gets up despite Kuroobi's protests, but says that he only wants to say something. Luffy throws a punch at him, but Arlong catches it. He asks Luffy if he really thinks he can beat them, and Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji affirm this. Arlong then decides to not say anything as he instead picks up a chunk of the concrete Luffy is stuck in, planning to throw it into the water and drown the pirate. Luffy tries attacking him, but Arlong catches the punch with his mouth and injures Luffy's arm with his teeth. Luffy retaliates by biting Arlong's arm, but this does nothing as Arlong throws him into the pool. Luffy becomes immobilized as he sinks due to the concrete and his Devil Fruit abilities, and Sanji tries to go in and save him, but Zoro says that the Arlong Pirates were baiting them into a trap and they would need to take out the fish-men to save Luffy.

Zoro and Sanji confront Hatchan and Kuroobi as Luffy sinks helplessly to the bottom of the pool, and Arlong laughs at his weakness as a human. Zoro says he will finish off Hatchan in 5 minutes as he races toward the fish-man. Hatchan spits out ink at him, and Zoro dodges it, but he ends up only cutting off two sections of Hatchan's spiky hair. Hatchan says he will forgive Zoro since he can grow it back, and Sanji notices that Zoro is looking weak. Kuroobi tries attacking the distracted cook, but Sanji dodges his strike and says that a fish should not insult a cook. As Luffy starts to suffocate when he hits the bottom of the pool, Hatchan tells Zoro he is very strong against swordsmen. Zoro raises his sword to attack, and Hatchan claps his arms together to defend himself, but Zoro easily cuts his arms, leaving the swordsman at a loss as to what the fish-man is doing. Hatchan becomes sticky and jumps up to a pillar, which he sticks to. Zoro grows increasingly annoyed with him for wasting his time, and Hatchan notes that Zoro is only using one sword before he says that he has not gotten serious with him yet.
Outside of Arlong Park, Johnny and Yosaku think that Hatchan is playing mind games with Zoro and decide to go help Luffy. However, Genzo stops them, reminding them that they are severely injured. He says he will go and help Luffy, and Nojiko and the other Cocoyasi Village residents offer to help him, but he refuses in order to be unseen by the Arlong Pirates. Nojiko insists on going despite having received injuries as well, pointing out that the Straw Hats were fighting for her sister's sake, and Genzo reluctantly relents as they head into Arlong Park.
Meanwhile, Zoro collapses, and Sanji realizes that the wounds Mihawk gave him have still not healed. Seizing his opportunity, Hatchan punches the pillar to cause it to fall onto Zoro, but Zoro quickly gets up and throws the fish-man in front of him, causing the pillar to fall onto him. Zoro collapses again immediately afterwards, and Sanji, Johnny, and Yosaku reflect on the severity of his wounds. However, Sanji's distraction allows Kuroobi to land a hit on him, sending him flying all the way into the wall. Kuroobi states that he is a Level 40 Fish-Man Karate practitioner as Sanji, having gone through the wall, lands behind the Cocoyasi Village citizens. With the Straw Hats seemingly defeated, Arlong tells Kuroobi to throw Zoro into the pool. He asks Hatchan when he is going to come out of the rubble, and Hatchan bursts out in a rage, saying he is the number two swordsman on Fish-Man Island with his Six Sword Style. At first, Kuroobi mocks his display since Zoro was down, but Zoro then gets up, saying that the fish-man's six swords were nothing special and that he would not die until he meets Mihawk again. He tells Johnny and Yosaku to lend him their swords, and as this is happening, Sanji gets up and heads back to Arlong Park, saying that Zeff's kicks were ten times stronger than Kuroobi's punch. Meanwhile, Genzo and Nojiko dive down toward Luffy while Usopp continues running away from Chew.

Johnny and Yosaku, though worried about Zoro's injuries, know their comrade is the only one who can stand against Hatchan, and they throw their swords at him as he puts on his bandanna. Although he puts on a confident front, Zoro knows he could pass out at any time, and as Hatchan prepares to overwhelm him with his Six Sword Style, Zoro does not make a move to catch Johnny and Yosaku's swords, much to their shock. However, at the last second Zoro dodges Hatchan's three-sword jab as he grabs Johnny and Yosaku's swords and attempts to attack the fish-man. Hatchan leaps out of the way and is confident that Zoro will be unable to deal with all six of his swords, but Zoro parries his strikes and cuts him vertically across the chest.
The fish-men, villagers, and Johnny and Yosaku are stunned by Zoro's attack, but the wound only angers Hatchan. He states that Zoro cannot logically beat him since Zoro has three swords compared to his six, but Zoro counters that their blades have different weight as he remembers his encounter with Mihawk. Hatchan does not understand his comment, since his swords physically weigh more at 300 kilograms each, but Zoro says no more as Hatchan begins to attack again. He brings all his swords together and jabs them at Zoro, and Zoro counters them. However, Hatchan suddenly spreads out his arms and different directions, moving Zoro's arms and leaving him exposed. Hatchan then headbutts Zoro and sends him flying into the air, putting him on the verge of unconsciousness. Hatchan spins his swords over his head to dice up Zoro when he lands on them, but Zoro manages to spin on top of his swords and cut his hands. Hatchan lets go of his swords and writhes in pain, growing even angrier as he prepares to finish Zoro off. Intent on surpassing his limits and not passing out, Zoro meets Hatchan's attack head-on. He then manages to break Hatchan's swords, telling him that this is what he meant by their swords having different weights. Hatchan tries attacking with rapid punches, but Zoro cuts him up with a whirlwind slash, sending him flying up into the air and landing on the ground defeated.
Kuroobi then prepares to attack Zoro, but Sanji blocks his strike. Kuroobi is surprised that he managed to live after taking one of his punches, but Sanji says that people from Baratie could have taken it as well, causing Kuroobi to state he is being underestimated. Meanwhile, Genzo and Nojiko attempt to break the rock Luffy is trapped in at the bottom of the pool, with Luffy already having swallowed a lot of water. Genzo cannot break the rock as the two quickly run out of oxygen, but they then get an idea.

With Zoro having defeated Hatchan and Sanji confronting Kuroobi, Zoro prepares to go underwater and rescue Luffy. Sanji says that Zoro will die from his injuries underwater, but Zoro replies that they have no time left, causing Sanji to jump in instead. Zoro is horrified as Kuroobi gleefully looks forward to fighting in his natural element, jumping into the water to go after Sanji. As Sanji goes down, he sees Genzo pumping Luffy's chest, and Luffy's neck is stretched to the shore, bringing his head above water as Nojiko holds it there. Luffy coughs up some of the water he swallowed, making Nojiko hopeful, and Sanji knows that all he has to do is break the rock Luffy's feet are encased in and free him. However, Kuroobi suddenly catches up to Sanji and strikes the back of his neck, and he then sees Genzo with Luffy, causing him to go after the villager. Sanji grabs Kuroobi's legs and holds him back, and Kuroobi is enthused by Sanji challenging him in an environment where he is not only much stronger, but Sanji is weakened by not being able to breathe.
Kuroobi wraps Sanji in his ponytail, and Sanji tries kicking him, but the power of the kick has been reduced by half and Kuroobi easily dodges it. In contrast, Kuroobi's attacks are unaffected and even sometimes strengthened, and he lands multiple powerful strikes on Sanji. After the assault, Sanji desperately tries to swim up to breathe, but Kuroobi smugly blocks him. Kuroobi mocks Sanji's chivalry, saying that this is how far it got him and that once he died, Kuroobi would kill all of his friends and allies, meaning he could not save a single person. Kuroobi then grabs Sanji by the neck and prepares to drag him to the sea floor very quickly; the sudden change in water pressure will rupture Sanji's organs. Sanji coughs blood when he is brought to the sea floor, and on land, the Cocoyasi villagers wonder in concern about the statuses of Sanji, Genzo, and Nojiko.
Sanji remains alive after the sudden change in pressure, and he points upward. Kuroobi decides to do this again, and swims back up towards the top. Knowing that fish-men breathed through their gills underwater, Sanji bites Kuroobi's gills, blocking them and causing him to suffocate. Sanji is freed from Kuroobi's grasp and comes back up for air, shocking Zoro and Arlong. He tells Zoro that Luffy is sort of fine, and tells Kuroobi to come up so he can kill him. Kuroobi comes up, and thinks nothing of fighting on land, as he is confident that he will still overpower Sanji and kill him with his ultimate attack. However, Sanji quickly barrages Kuroobi with powerful kicks, and a stunned Kuroobi quickly tries to use his ultimate attack, but Sanji finishes him off with Mouton Shot, asking him if he wants any dessert as he flies away.

Sanji sends Kuroobi crashing into Arlong Park's main building, and Arlong looks on in shock and anger at Kuroobi and Hatchan lying in defeat. Sanji waves the two fish-men off as nothing special, and Arlong confronts him and Zoro in a rage, saying they are still far from winning. Zoro asks Sanji what he meant by his mixed report on Luffy's status, and Sanji replies that Luffy will not die, but he will need to go back down to the ocean floor to free their captain. However, Arlong will likely be standing in their way. Meanwhile, Nojiko looks on as she holds Luffy's head above water, shocked that Hatchan and Kuroobi were defeated. Genzo comes back up for air, cursing his inability to hold his breath long enough. Nojiko offers to switch places with him, and Genzo asks about the situation with the Straw Hats and the Arlong Pirates. Still surprised at what is going on, Nojiko states that there may actually be hope for all of them.
Elsewhere, Usopp lies on the ground in a bloody mess. Thinking he killed the pirate with a single shot of his Mizudeppo, Chew walks back to Arlong Park, complaining about the trouble chasing Usopp had caused him and saying that Hatchan and Kuroobi should have dispatched the others by now. However, Usopp is actually fine, having used his special Ketchup Star to fool Chew. He does feel sorry for Nami about all the destruction the fish-men have caused, but decides to cut his losses and pretend that he lost to Chew in a hard-fought battle, packing dirt on his body to make his lie more believable. However, as he does this, he recalls the words of his crewmates and the Cocoyasi Village residents he met, remembering how determined they all were to stop Arlong and what they had told him about Nami's dedication to freeing the village. As a result, Usopp can no longer justify his decision, bitterly denouncing how pathetic he is. He then yells out to Chew, who turns around to confront him. Usopp reflects that he needed to leave his comfort zone behind when he left his village, knowing that the true joy of being a pirate can only come from putting one's life on the line and giving one's all every day. Knowing that he has no right to sail or laugh with his crewmates if he does not fight seriously, Usopp shoots a Kaen Boshi at Chew.
However, Chew easily snuffs out the shot with his water abilities, and punches Usopp hard in the face. With Usopp's blood dripping from his fist, Chew says it would have been smarter if the sniper had continued to fake his death. Usopp initially seems to be giving up, and Chew stomps on his chest, but he suddenly pulls his hammer out of his bag and hits Chew's leg with it. Usopp then shoots Chew with a rubber band, giving him enough time to run and hide in the woods. As Chew looks around, a bottle of rum suddenly comes flying toward him, which he catches. However, the bottle suddenly ruptures as Usopp shoots it with Namari Boshi, covering Chew in rum and cutting him with the bottle shards. Chew gets extremely annoyed with Usopp's stunts, and sucks in water from a nearby pool in order to draw out the pirate from his hiding spot. Though he is hiding, Usopp is intent on continuing to fight, although he becomes very frightened when Chew fires a large blast of water that brings down many of the trees nearby. The exasperated Chew finds Usopp while the latter is looking at the destruction, and barrages him with Hyappatsu Mizudeppo. Despite being utterly overwhelmed, Usopp still promises the people he left behind at home to act like a real pirate, saying his pretend pirate days are over. Chew then kicks down the tree Usopp is hiding behind, drawing blood as he is caught by its sharp edges. Chew wonders what Usopp said was over, and Usopp replies that it was their fight, shooting a Kaen Boshi that ignites the alcohol covering Chew's body, setting him ablaze and defeating him.

The chapter begins right after Usopp lit Chew on fire. Chew begins to run towards the pool of water, but Usopp comes from behind and hits him with Usopp Hammer towards the water. As Chew begins to get up, Usopp strikes him again with Usopp Hammer three times, then with Usopp Wagomu, and then again with Usopp Hammer. Following this succession of attacks, Chew is K.O.ed and Usopp begins to celebrate his victory. He starts shouting that even he can do it, and that the fish-man shouldn't underestimate him.
The scene moves to Cocoyasi Village, behind Nami and Nojiko's house. Nami is sitting on a chair with her Bo-staff, bandaging her shoulder after she cut herself with a knife. Nami begins to think that she cried and complained enough and now she has to go to Arlong Park since everyone else is fighting.
The scene moves to Arlong Park, where Arlong is sitting in the middle of a scene in front of Zoro and Sanji knocked down on the ground. A citizen of Cocoyasi Village can't believe his eyes. Yosaku wonders what did Arlong do. Johnny mentions that the fish-man only threw some water, but this knocked down both Zoro and Sanji and had them cough up blood. Meanwhile, Luffy is still sitting on the sea floor, with Nojiko trying to pump water out of him, and with his head in Genzo's hands stretched just above the surface. One of Luffy's fingers starts to move. As Sanji begins to get up, Yosaku shouts to him not to stand up. Johnny is worried about Luffy's situation. Arlong mocks the two, saying that he doesn't even need to touch them and that a little water is enough to kill them. He comments that that is the difference between their species. Sanji tells him to shut up and attacks him with Poitrine Shoot, which Arlong easily evades and then attacks Sanji again with water, knocking him down. Sanji coughs up blood and thinks that fighting is only a game for the fish-man, and that water splashes feel like a shotgun blast. Sanji realizes that Arlong is on a whole other level. Arlong mocks Sanji again, saying that he should just die, and that he's life is worth nothing.
Then, Nami appears, to everyone's surprise. Arlong tells her that he was about to kill the pirates, and asks her why did she come. Nami answers that she came in order to kill him. Arlong begins to laugh at this, commenting on the numerous times that she tried to kill him in the past 8 years: by assassination, poisoning, or surprise attacks. He then tells her that she should know that it's impossible for humans to kill him. Arlong follows, saying that he's not going to kill her or let her escape, and that she will be her cartographer forever.
The fish-man continues by commenting that he is an understanding guy, and that he doesn't want to chain a young woman if possible, so it would be better for him if Nami joined him out of her own will. He then makes Nami an offer: even though he's planning to kill everyone present, if Nami joins Arlong as his cartographer, he will spare the Cocoyasi Village citizens' lives, but he won't spare Sanji and Zoro because they made him angry. Arlong asks Nami if she chooses to side with him and spare the villagers, or if she sides with the pirates and attempt to fight him. He then comments that because their strongest fighters have been incapacitated, losing is inevitable. Arlong asks Nami again if she sides with him or with the pirates. Nami begins to think about what to choose, thinking that a single word from her can decide everyone's lives. She then remembers Luffy's words that he will save her. While the villagers get angry that Arlong is anyway forcing Nami to join him, Nami thinks that she can't doubt her friends' words. She then apologizes to all the villagers, and asks them if they would die with her. All the villagers scream in approval.
Then Luffy woke up, shooting a jet of water out of his mouth. Sanji comments that the plan worked and that all they need to do is free Luffy's legs. Zoro realizes what the plan was. Johnny and Yosaku realize that Luffy is back. Genzo asks Luffy if he is awake. Zoro and Sanji get up and the swordsman tells the cook that he has 30 seconds, because he won't last more than that. Sanji then jumps into the water saying that that's more time than he needs. Arlong also realizes that Luffy is back. Zoro tells Arlong that he shouldn't pay attention to that, and calls him a half-fish mutant. The fish-man threatens Zoro, saying that he told him not to call him that again. Sanji is close to reaching Luffy.
Suddenly, Usopp appears and shoots Arlong with Tamago Boshi. Usopp starts shouting that he will back Zoro. Johnny and Yosaku start wondering where the sniper is, commenting that he is brave. Usopp tells Zoro to fight without any worries, as everyone realizes that he was hiding in the hole in the wall made by Sanji earlier when he was hit by Kuroobi. Usopp happily tells Nami that he defeated one of the officers of the Arlong Pirates by himself. Genzo asks Luffy if he pulls himself out on his own, but Luffy answers that he can't feel any strength in his body. As Sanji almost reaches Luffy's body, he says to himself that he is counting on Luffy, their only hope. However, Hatchan starts to get up saying that he won't let them do as they please.

Sanji goes to free Luffy from his rock entrapment underwater, but as Zoro confronts Arlong, the fish-man states that he wishes to find out who interfered and kept Luffy alive. Wanting to distract Arlong, Usopp shouts at him and shoots a rubber band at him, but Arlong's attention remains on Zoro. Zoro swings his sword at Arlong's face, only for the fish-man's long nose to counter it. Arlong says that his unbreakable nose is his greatest pride as Hatchan gets back up. Initially frightened due to thinking that Usopp's rubber band was heading for him, Hatchan gets angry and dives into the water to kill Sanji, shocking Zoro. Arlong tells Zoro that his group will die no matter what before headbutting him in the chest, causing him to cry out in pain.
Sanji reaches Nojiko and Luffy at the bottom of the pool, and as he prepares to destroy Luffy's rock with a kick, Nojiko notices Hatchan pursuing him. She goes behind Sanji to shield him from Hatchan's rapid punches, and Sanji is shocked as he sees Hatchan attacking. Above water, Usopp shouts to Zoro as he climbs over the wall to Arlong Park, and Arlong lifts the swordsman by the neck. Wondering why Zoro is bandaged so much, Arlong rips the bandages off, and is shocked to see the gruesome wound on Zoro's chest. He prepares to kill Zoro, but Zoro exclaims that Hatchan's wounds would not have reopened if he had stayed down. Arlong initially thinks Zoro is talking about himself, but Zoro reveals who he was talking to, and underwater, Hatchan's wounds reopen before he can attack Nojiko and Sanji. With Hatchan taken out, Sanji quickly destroys Luffy's rock with a kick, and Luffy's body shoots up to where his head is, sending him flying over Arlong Park.
The Straw Hats, townspeople, and their allies rejoice at Luffy's arrival, and Luffy grabs Zoro and throws him out of the way in order to switch places with him. Luffy then unleashes a rapid string of attacks on Arlong, which overwhelm the fish-man and leave him lying at the foot of the tower. However, Arlong gets up without taking significant damage, but Luffy responds that that was just his warm-up exercise. Meanwhile, Zoro swears to kill Luffy after landing on the ground.

After receiving some blows from Luffy, Arlong acknowledges the Straw Hat captain's strength, but says it would have been better for Luffy to die underwater as he will now have to deal with Arlong's rage at his crew's actions. The nearby onlookers grow tense at the confrontation between Luffy and Arlong, and Sanji casually remarks that they will all die if Arlong beats Luffy, with Nojiko adding that all of East Blue will be doomed as well. Arlong asks Luffy if he knows what the difference between them is, and Luffy answers with sincerity that it is their different body parts (noses, etc.). This shocks Johnny and Yosaku and enrages Arlong, who replies that it is their race as he lunges toward Luffy and tries to bite him. Luffy barely manages to repeatedly dodge Arlong's rapidly encroaching jaws, and his situation seems to be hopeless when Arlong pins him to a pillar by the neck, but he manages to pull his head out of the path of Arlong's jaws by stretching his neck. This causes Arlong to bite into the pillar behind Luffy, and Usopp is initially confident that the fish-man's teeth will break, only for the opposite to happen as Arlong's bite causes the stone pillar to shatter. Johnny and Yosaku are terrified, and Sanji notes that Luffy's body would be completely torn apart if Arlong manages to get his jaws around it. Arlong boasts in the power of his teeth, saying that the humans' lack of this power makes them the inferior species, but Luffy retorts by saying he can just crush stone with his fists. Johnny and Yosaku agree with Luffy's remark, but Arlong calls it frivolous as he charges at Luffy, shouting about how weak humans are, and how Luffy in particular can't even save himself from drowning. However, Luffy does not seem opposed to these accusations of weakness, saying he needs helps because of them as he grabs two swords from Arlong's beaten crewmates.
Sanji wonders if Luffy knows how to use a sword, but Luffy just swings them wildly at Arlong, much to the fish-man's bewilderment as he dodges the random swings. He then counters one of the swords with his nose, sending it flying out of Luffy's hand, and Luffy swings his other sword at Arlong, only for the sword to shatter upon contact with Arlong's nose. Arlong initially thinks Luffy is just playing around, but Luffy is not done yet as he immediately follows up his sword strikes with a cartwheel punch to Arlong's jaw, which sends the fish-man flying back and shatters his teeth. As the bystanders look on in shock, Luffy shouts at Arlong that he cannot fight with swords, or navigate, or cook, or lie like his crewmates can, and that without their help, he would die. Arlong questions Luffy's statement, wondering why anyone would follow someone who professes to be so weak. He asks Luffy what he can do that gives him the right to be a captain, and Luffy simply replies that he can beat Arlong.
Luffy's crewmates and allies cheer at his statement, but Arlong expresses his exasperation with Luffy's talking as he quickly grows back another set of teeth, much to Luffy's shock. He reveals that he can do this as a shark fish-man, and that the new set is stronger than the old one every time. He then pulls out his new set of teeth and then the next one after that, allowing him to wield two sets of teeth in his hands as weapons while another set of teeth grows back in his mouth. Arlong uses this ability to proclaim again about the superiority of fish-men, and he attacks Luffy with the jaws in his hands. Eventually, he manages to draw blood, but with a shock realizes that it is from a fish-man that Luffy used as a shield. This causes Arlong to get angry, and gives Luffy an idea.

Arlong gets angry at Luffy for using his crewmate as a shield, but Luffy retorts that the fish-man did the same to his enemies. Johnny and Yosaku state that Luffy said he had an idea for beating Arlong, and they and Sanji wonder what it is. Arlong attacks Luffy by snapping the teeth in his hands, but Luffy avoids his lunges and kicks him in the jaw, sending another set of his teeth flying out. As Arlong grows another set, he reminds Luffy that it's useless to break his teeth, but Luffy instead places the fish-man's teeth into his own mouth, and Johnny and Yosaku are appalled that this is his idea. An insulted Arlong manages to give Luffy a small bite in the shoulder, although it leads to him melodramatically rolling on the ground in pain. Johnny and Yosaku yell at Luffy to stop playing around, but Luffy denies their accusation. He then blocks another of Arlong's strikes with a large piece of rock, but Arlong's strength sends Luffy tumbling backwards. Arlong then sinks a set of teeth into Luffy's side, but he quickly responds by biting Arlong's shoulder with the fish-man's own teeth.
The two combatants separate from each other, with the teeth Luffy used being left in Arlong's shoulder, and Luffy laughs how he hurt Arlong with his own teeth. However, Arlong, pulling the teeth from his shoulder, says that Luffy's jaws are too weak to do any real damage, and he tries to demonstrate the real power of a shark's jaw as he bites into Luffy's right arm at the elbow. Luffy manages to counter by throwing Arlong into the ground, allowing him to loosen the stunned fish-man's jaws and free his arm. The two momentarily lie motionless on the ground. Genzo states that Luffy could have lost his arm had he been trapped for even a second longer. Arlong gets up first, noting that Luffy's throw was enough to draw blood. Meanwhile, Luffy pulls the teeth out of his side, but when he gets up, notices that Arlong has disappeared. Usopp yells to Luffy that Arlong went into the water, though Luffy initially confuses his exposed fin for an actual shark. Below the surface, Arlong says that no one can compare to his speed underwater as he flies out of the water like a torpedo, with Luffy just barely dodging a fatal blow, but still being hit hard enough to send him spinning away. Arlong crashes through the tower wall, while Luffy tumbles to the ground. Arlong is surprised Luffy could dodge him, but notes that it will only delay the inevitable. He then uses the same attack again, and Luffy dodges him, causing his nose to embed itself in the ground, with no ill effect to the fish-man. Sanji is shocked at how strong his nose is, and Arlong uses the attack twice more, successfully grazing Luffy both times before going back underwater. As Luffy struggles to his feet his allies yell for him to get away before Arlong can attack again, but Luffy refuses and stands in front of the pool, declaring that he will catch Arlong and break his nose.

Luffy goads Arlong to come out of the pool despite the beatings the fish-man gave him, and Arlong laughs at Luffy's tenacity, wondering if Luffy realized that running away is futile. Usopp yells at Luffy to hide, saying that he'll die if Arlong lands a direct hit on him. However, Luffy makes a shield by horizontally stretching the fingers of his left hand, and Johnny and Yosaku wonder what Luffy is thinking with that. Arlong goes twice as fast as last time as he swims toward Luffy, aiming to skewer his heart, and he sends Luffy flying as he hits him directly, to Johnny and Yosaku's horror. However, Luffy barely manages to stop Arlong's nose from striking him by using his finger shield to block the fish-man's face, and bounces away from Arlong onto the wall of the main building. Luffy tells Arlong that that attack won't work on him anymore, however Arlong catches Luffy by surprise as he jumps up from the collision site (although Luffy just says he got lucky), and leaps at the Straw Hat again in midair. Luffy responds by stretching his fingers to form a net, which catches Arlong, and Luffy then stomps Arlong's chest and sends him crashing into the ground below.
The onlookers rejoice, and Luffy wonders if Arlong is dead, but Arlong's eyes quickly reopen and they are now intense and wild looking. Genzo and Nojiko are unnerved by the sight, and even Nami says that she has never seen his eyes like that before. Sanji notes that they are the same eyes a Sea King has when it goes berserk, and that Luffy's attack just enraged him. Arlong grabs Luffy by the head and slams him into the foot of the building before charging at him. Luffy barely manages to jump over Arlong's punch, but as Arlong punches through the wall of the building, he grabs a giant Zanbato named Kiribachi and pulls it out. Arlong swings Kiribachi at Luffy, and Luffy dodges, but the sword plants itself into the building and allows Arlong to flip and pursue Luffy up the main building. Arlong manages to corner Luffy on an upper level, and Luffy leaps into a window as the fish-man attacks.
Arlong climbs into the room, and Luffy wonders what all the papers around him are. Arlong replies that these are maps that Nami has spent the last eight years drawing, and he praises Nami's ability, but Luffy notes that the pen on Nami's desk is encrusted in blood. Arlong holds Luffy's head between two of Kiribachi's blades as he says that there is no greater happiness for Nami than to make maps for the fish-men to use to conquer the world, and asks Luffy if he could use her any more effectively. In response, Luffy grabs onto one of Kiribachi's blades, rendering Arlong unable to move his sword. Luffy shatters the tooth-like blade with his bare hand, growing angry about Arlong using Nami like a tool.

As Luffy breaks off part of Arlong's Kiribachi, he asks Arlong what he thinks Nami is. Arlong replies that while she is a human, he at least considers her useful and he will provide for her every want so long as she keeps drawing maps for him. As Johnny and Yosaku worry about what is happening to Luffy inside the tower, Luffy kicks Nami's desk out, and Nami is taken aback as it falls to the ground. Arlong angrily wonders why Luffy is destroying Nami's cartography supplies and sending them flying out of the tower, and as she watches them fall, Nami remembers Arlong showing her her cartography room for the first time when she was a child. Arlong swings Kiribachi at Luffy, but Luffy dodges it and he destroys more of Nami's maps in the process. Arlong is aghast at what is happening to his maps, remembering forcing Nami to work for long hours and abusing her in order to acquire them. Arlong grabs Luffy and shouts that it took Nami eight years to make those maps, and outside, Nami silently thanks Luffy while tears fall from her eyes.
Arlong bites Luffy in the neck, but Luffy grabs the fish-man's nose as he states that while he may not know anything about fish-men or cartography, he now knows how to help Nami. He snaps Arlong's nose out of place, and states that he cannot allow this room to exist. Luffy then kicks into the ceiling, and his leg stretches all the way through the roof. Arlong puts his nose back in place and scoffs at the idea of a human destroying Arlong Park as he spins toward Luffy. He bites Luffy in the chest, but Luffy brings his foot down on top of him, sending him crashing all the way to the ground floor. The impact causes the entire tower to crack, and the Straw Hats and citizens prepare to evacuate, but Nami does not want to leave Luffy inside the tower. However, she cries out to him as it collapses immediately afterwards.

Luffy destroys Arlong Park's roof and pieces of the building are scattered into the air. Zoro, who was sleeping, is struck and wonders what happened. Meanwhile at the foot of the building everyone wonders what happened inside and who won. Suddenly, Luffy emerges from the destruction to everyone's joy and then declares that Nami is his friend. Nami acknowledges his gesture.
Everybody then celebrates the news of Arlong's defeat. However, they are soon interrupted by Nezumi, who thanks them for giving him an enjoyable fight to watch and then declares that all the riches of Arlong Park now belong to him. He then asks that everyone throw down their arms, but is interrupted by Zoro and then gets beaten up by the Straw Hat Crew. Nami then gives Luffy his straw hat back and attacks Nezumi as well. She tells him to give her back her money. Nezumi leaves and tells them that they will regret crossing him, while everyone continues to celebrate with Nami, Nojiko, and Genzo sitting by Belle-mere's grave. Back at Cocoyasi Village Dr. Nako is treating Zoro, who is in a lot of pain.
Later at the Marine's 16th branch, Nezumi alerts Marine headquarters about the Straw Hat Crew.

Night falls in the East Blue, but the partying in Cocoyasi Village does not cease as the people continue celebrating their hard-fought freedom from the Arlong Pirates. Luffy stuffs himself with meat, and asks Sanji about a raw ham melon that the cook ate. Sanji goes to flirt with the women, while Usopp proclaims his achievements to the jubilant crowd. Meanwhile, Genzo goes to Bell-mere's grave and pours sake on it, telling her that her daughters have become strong women that remind him of her. He then says that they will all do their best to live life to the fullest from now on, for the sake of those who died in their struggle for freedom. Luffy then bursts onto the scene looking for raw ham melon, and attempts to leave after not seeing any, but Genzo stops him. Luffy notes the grave and offers his condolences, and Genzo tells him that if he takes away the smile from Nami's face, he will kill the pirate himself, which Luffy understands.
Meanwhile, Nojiko notes that Chabo is not sulking about his dad's death, and Chabo replies that nothing good would have come from thoughts like that. Nojiko then pinches his cheek, as his response prevented her from picking on him. Inside a room, Dr. Nako tells Nami that her tattoo cannot be fully erased, as it would still leave a scar. Nami remembers telling Nojiko about her pain at being branded with the Arlong Pirates' tattoo, and how Nojiko proceeded to get her own tattoos to match her. Nami then asks Nako to tattoo something else in its place, showing him a piece of paper with what she has in mind.
The next day, the Straw Hat Pirates prepare to depart from the island. Johnny and Yosaku bid them farewell, as they intend to resume their lives as bounty hunters. Usopp wonders where Nami is, and Zoro suggests that she may not be coming. Genzo and Nako express their shock when they hear that Nami is leaving her 100,000,000 in the village, but Nojiko says that her sister was content with just stealing more money later. Nami then approaches the villagers and shouts for the Straw Hats to set sail before running toward the Going Merry. Genzo and the villagers realize in shock that Nami is not giving them the opportunity to thank her, and she bursts through the crowd and leaps from the dock onto the Merry. Nami then drops the wallets and money she stole from the villagers, and they shout at her in anger, though are still grateful to her. Genzo tells Luffy to remember their promise, and Nami happily shouts her goodbye to the villagers. Nako hands Genzo the paper that Nami gave him when getting her new tattoo, revealing its design: a tangerine attached to a pinwheel. Nojiko notices that Genzo is not wearing his pinwheel anymore, and he replies that he does not need it anymore. When Nami was a baby, Bell-mere got mad at Genzo for making her cry with his scary face. In response, Genzo put the pinwheel on his hat, which made her laugh. Now the pinwheel, as well as an orange, sits in front of Bell-mere's grave.

Nami argues that the newspaper, and everything else, has become expensive. In the meantime, Usopp develops a new chili marble to blind opponents. Luffy bumps into Usopp, causing him to spill the chili in his eyes. Luffy attempts to eat an orange from Nami's tree but Sanji defends the tree from Luffy. Zoro, on the other hand, is resting. The ship heads towards the Grand Line.
Meanwhile, at Marine HQ, Lieutenant Brannew is reviewing every East Blue pirate's bounty. Every pirate with a high bounty in East Blue has been defeated by Monkey D. Luffy. Brannew shows Luffy's first bounty of 30,000,000. The Marines are gathered to make a vow of righteousness and justice in the sea.
Back to the ship, Luffy is proud of his first bounty poster but Nami is afraid that everybody will try to kill. Usopp is also proud of his captain's bounty poster because the back of his head is shown. They decide it's time to head for the Grand Line. When Zoro sees an island, Nami informs them it is Loguetown, "the city of the beginning and the end", where the legendary Gold Roger was born and executed. When the crew arrives on the island, Luffy decides to head to the execution platform, Sanji looks for food, Usopp wants to buy some tools and Zoro thinks of buying something, which leaves Nami offering to lend him some money with 300% interest.
While Zoro walks around the town, he sees a girl getting picked on because they cannot fulfill their dream to go to the Grand Line. The girl, being a swordswoman, quickly finishes them off but drops her glasses in the process. Zoro is impressed by her skills and helps her find her glasses. When the girl thanks him, Zoro stares in shock, as she is the splitting image of his long dead friend, Kuina.
In the meantime, on an isolated island, Mihawk is looking for someone. That someone is soon revealed to be Shanks, The Red Hair captain of Red Hair Pirates. Mihawk informs Shanks about Luffy's first bounty poster and that he remembered a story that he told him once about a kid in a little village. Shanks, eager to meet Luffy again, throws a party to celebrate Luffy's arrival and first bounty.
Meanwhile in Luffy's hometown, Foosha Village, everybody is happy because Luffy is infamous. The villagers wonder if he is going to become a great pirate from the village. The mayor of the village, however, is not really happy of the outcome, saying that it is Luffy's dream or destiny.

Nami tries on several outfits which the owner swoons over, only to not buy any of them. Meanwhile, Luffy stands in front of Roger's execution platform and reflects on the event that happened there that started the Great Age of Pirates. Elsewhere, Zoro is still flustered after encountering a woman who looks just like Kuina and is also a swordsman to boot. Assured that he will not see her again, Zoro heads to the Arms Shop, where he is greeted by the owner Ipponmatsu. Zoro asks to buy two swords with 100,000, and Ipponmatsu says that he can only sell blunt, low-quality swords for that little money. He then recognizes Wado Ichimonji on Zoro's hip in shock, and asks to see it. After confirming that it is Wado Ichimonji, he tries to lowball it and buy it from Zoro for 200,000. Zoro refuses to sell it, even when Ipponmatsu triples his bid.
Right then, the woman Zoro met comes in and immediately recognizes Wado. She reveals that it is one of the 21 O Wazamono grade swords and is worth no less than 1,000,000, to Ipponmatsu's horror. He shouts at the woman, threatening to sue her for obstruction of business, and tosses her her sword Shigure that she came to pick up. She ends up crashing into a display rack, and he yells at her to clean it up before admitting to Zoro that his sword is indeed as valuable as the woman claimed. Not caring to understand what the earlier exchange was about, Zoro goes back to pick out some of the low-quality swords when the woman recognizes him. Not knowing who he is, she states that his three swords remind her of Zoro, and condemns how Zoro uses his blades to make money. She laments how the famous swordsmen who possess all the highest quality swords now are all criminals, saying the blades are crying. Ipponmatsu states that he has no problem with criminals, as they were his customers before Smoker gained authority over the town; he considers Smoker a "monster" due to being a Devil Fruit user. The woman vows to retrieve all the high-grade swords that are being used for evil.
She then spots Sandai Kitetsu, another high-grade sword worth over 1,000,000, being sold for 50,000. After hearing of its real value, Ipponmatsu refuses to sell it, and Zoro notes that it is cursed. Ipponmatsu confirms this, stating that like its predecessors, its wielders have suffered tragic deaths. Zoro still wants to buy it, but Ipponmatsu still refuses to sell it despite the urging of his wife. Zoro then offers to test its curse against his luck as he tosses it into the air and holds out his arm. Despite its unparalleled sharpness, Sandai Kitetsu does not leave a scratch on Zoro as it spins around his arm, causing Ipponmatsu to fall down in shock. Zoro then tells the woman to pick out another sword for him, but Ipponmatsu presents him with Yubashiri, a Ryo Wazomono grade sword that is the best one he owns. He lets Zoro take it and Sandai Kitetsu for free, apologizing for trying to trick him and being impressed over the latter sword's selection of him. Zoro then leaves, and Ipponmatsu's wife is surprised that he gave away their family heirloom. Ipponmatsu replies that he has entrusted his dream to Zoro, and as his wife sends him to clean the bathtub, the woman is left kneeling in awe at what she just witnessed.
At the Marine Station, Smoker asks where Master Chief Petty Officer Tashigi is. A subordinate states that she went to pick up her sword at the Arms Shop, and Smoker tells him to go bring her back as he had gotten an eyewitness report about pirates. He curses Tashigi to himself, calling her the shame of the Marines. Meanwhile, Sanji stares lovestruck at a beautiful woman standing nearby on the street.

Sanji becomes interested in an elephant trunk tuna fish from the South Blue and he decides he wants to buy it. Usopp finds some cheap eggs to buy and Nami is in a store buying some clothes. Nami notes that the weather is changing and that it will rain soon. Meanwhile, Luffy is standing in the execution platform where the greatest pirate Gold Roger died, he is so amazed of the view. An officer tells Luffy to get down off the platform. He reasons it belongs to the World Government but is soon smashed by Alvida.
Alvida, now looking different since the last time Luffy met her, tells Luffy that he is the only man ever punching her and that she wants him for being a strong man. Though, Luffy cannot remember who she is. The Loguetown officers want to arrest Alvida for hurting a World Government officer however, an explosion takes down the officers and Alvida shows her Devil Fruit power when a projectile piece of the fountain slides off her skin. Buggy shows up and reveals to Luffy that the now beautiful lady is in fact Alvida, much to the confusion of Luffy.
Alvida confirms that she is now the Devil Fruit user of the Sube Sube no Mi and her skin cannot be scarred. Alvida reveals the alliance that she has with Buggy the Clown because they share the same goal-finishing Luffy. Buggy blames Luffy for the adventure he had to go through without his crew as little Buggy. Cabaji traps Luffy in the execution platform foreshadowing Gold Roger's last moments.
Meanwhile, in the Marine base, Captain Smoker of the marines is informed about the chaos being caused by the pirates at the execution platform. He orders the Marines to close all the roads that lead to the execution platform and to surround the port. Soon, Tashigi, sergeant of the Marines meets up with Smoker and they head to the execution platform.
In the meantime, the rest of the Straw Hats are concerned about the feeling in the air. Sanji tells the rest that he saw a lion with a guy wearing a teddy bear hat. Zoro on the other hand, is wondering where the townspeople are located and Nami is worried about the weather. They are looking for Luffy in the execution platform.
The marines receive a report of three wanted pirates in the execution platform, one being Alvida the Iron Mace, the other being Buggy the Clown, and finally Luffy. Smoker has never heard of Luffy but he thinks that it could be a tough job.
Back in the platform, Luffy is not really concerned about his own execution going as far as wanting to scratch his nose. Much in shock to the rest of the Straw Hats when they notice that Luffy is about to be executed.

Buggy shouts that Luffy has upset him and therefore, he needs to be executed. He orders his pirates to create chaos in Loguetown for those who dare interfere. Luffy unaware that he is the one that's going to be executed tells Buggy that it's the first time he will see a real execution. Buggy tells the townspeople that they will see the live execution of Monkey D. Luffy.
Meanwhile, Nami tells Usopp that a storm is headed to the island and that it is more important than Luffy's execution.
Back at the Straw Hats' ship, Mohji and Richie prepare to set fire at the ship has a backup plan if Luffy and his crew tries to escape.
The Marines are not sure what to do, as the pirates are fighting each other. Smoker tells the marines to let them fight each other; that way, they will have the strength to capture both Alvida and Buggy as soon as they cut Luffy's head off.
Back at the platform, Luffy tells Buggy to let him go; however, Buggy states that if somebody tries to help Luffy, they will execute them. Luffy shouts that he will become the Pirate King shocking everybody present at the execution platform. Buggy is about to cut Luffy's head off when Zoro and Sanji show up to save Luffy. Smoker and Tashigi are surprised to hear that Pirate Hunter Zoro belongs in the same crew of Luffy. Zoro and Sanji start fighting the Buggy and Alvida Alliance to quickly destroy the stake of the platform. Luffy, apparently saying his last words to his crew because he will not survive the execution, smiles and accepts his fate. Shocked, Smoker recalls Gold Roger's execution 22 years ago.
Suddenly, lightning strikes Buggy when he was about to kill Luffy. With the execution platform now destroyed, Luffy stands up and recognizes that he is indeed a lucky man. Everybody at the platform are confused about what just happened. Luffy, Zoro and Sanji quickly run for it knowing the marines are surrounding the area.
Smoker asks Tashigi if she has ever seen somebody laugh at the execution platform knowing they will die. He remembers Gold Roger being the only one laughing right before his death. Realizing Luffy is escaping, he orders the first unit to take care of them, however, their gunpowder is wet because of the sudden storm, leaving the port free for them to escape. Smoker in anger decide to capture Luffy even if it's the last thing he can do.

A mysterious figure roams the streets of Loguetown as the storm pours down. Alongside the figure, words are spoken about how change cannot be stopped. The man says "Pirate King?" and then adds afterwards "not a bad idea".
Buggy gets up after being struck by lightning, angry that Luffy escaped. When Cabaji questions why he is still alive, Buggy states he refuses to die here. Alvida points out the growing Marine problem. Boasting how Luffy's ship should be burned down by now, Buggy uses his car mode and heads off to the harbor, closely followed by Alvida who takes off her sandals, and slide down a ramp to follow. However, they are caught by Smoker. The Marines succeeded in catching the Buggy Pirates and Alvida. Smoker then chases after Luffy, while Alvida comments on how her Devil Fruit powers do not work on the net. Buggy states it is made of Seastone and the Marines have developed it to capture Devil Fruit users.
At the harbor, Richie and Mohji are in trouble, the rain prevents them from setting fire to the Going Merry. Mohji is startled as Usopp arrives, causing him to slip over and knock himself out while Richie is distracted by an egg launched out by the boy's slingshot, while the marksman and Nami arrive back to the Going Merry.
Elsewhere, Zoro, Sanji, and Luffy race towards the ship followed by the Marines. Ahead, Tashigi calls Zoro out and states he lied to her. She states she will take Zoro's Meito and Wado Ichimonji away from him. As the pair break into a fight, Sanji yells at Zoro for attacking a woman but Luffy grabs Sanji and continue on towards the harbor, leaving Zoro behind. Tashigi is easily beaten, knocked against the wall with Zoro's sword at her throat, Zoro states he will never lose his sword. As Zoro begins to run after Luffy and Sanji, Tashigi is outraged that she wasn't killed and demands he tell her why he refuses to kill her, believing it to be because she is a woman. Zoro yells at her, telling her to stop imitating his dead friend and the two break into a childish argument.
Smoker catches up to Luffy and Sanji and blocks the way to the harbor. Smoker grabs Luffy causing Sanji to leap into action, but with no effect to Smoker because of his Devil Fruit, the Moku Moku no Mi. Smoker uses White Blow and hits Sanji to a building, Luffy tried to fight back with one blow but ultimately failed, due to Smoker's ability. Losing very easily, as Smoker goes to throw the finishing blow, a mysterious man called Dragon appears. The World Government is apparently looking for him. Stating the world is "waiting for our answer", a gust of wind breaks out.
Everyone is blown away from where they were, including Luffy with Zoro and Sanji. As the crew escape, Smoker demands to know why, Dragon states he sees no reason to stop a man's destiny. At the harbor, Nami and Usopp urge the others to hurry on board the Going Merry quickly. Smoker declares he will go after Luffy, Tashigi states she will chase after Zoro. On the sea, Buggy tells his crew to chase after Luffy, and that it is time he returned to the Grand Line.
Finally, away from Loguetown and safely at sea, the Straw Hats spot the lighthouse signaling the way to the Grand Line. They declare their vows and dreams and prepare themselves for the next step in their journey.

Luffy thinks the light from the light house should not disappear, claiming it is an emergency as they could become lost. Nami reminds Luffy why she is the navigator, remembering the way to the Grand Line is her job. Later, Nami reveals to the rest of the Straw hats that the entrance to the Grand Line is Reverse Mountain on the Red Line. They are confused as they believe it to be impossible to climb a mountain with a ship. Zoro wonders if the map is accurate as she stole it from Buggy. Luffy, on the other hand, is excited to go to that "magic" mountain. Zoro suggests entering the Grand Line from the south, shocking Luffy. The captain explains that they must enter from the mountain because it is "cool", much to Nami's disgust.
Suddenly the weather calms down, surprising Nami. She explains that they need to head towards the storm in order to arrive at the entrance. Soon, she realizes that they are in the Calm Belt and that they are in trouble because there is no wind. Nami, nervous about the outcome, orders everybody to row, prompting Usopp to remind her that it is not a rowboat. Nami explains that the Grand Line is surrounded by two seas. They are in the Calm Belt which is a sea without any wind or currents.
The ship shakes, confusing everybody that it might be an earthquake. Soon, the crew realizes that they are surrounded by sea kings. After a moment with the sea kings, the crew is back to the storm, Nami reminding Zoro why they need to use the entrance, Zoro now agreeing with her.
Nami then understands why they have to head for the mountain, explaining that the waves from the four seas gather there to create a stream. The stream would push the mountain's canal and when the water has reached the mountain's peak it will push back to the Grand Line. The only problem is controlling the rudder to avoid sinking. Luffy, on the other hand, does not understand and Sanji is amazed by Nami's navigation skills.
After awhile, they see a big shadow ahead. They realize it is the Red Line surrounded by fog. Sanji and Usopp take hold of the rudder. While turning the heavy rudder to avoid getting off route, it accidentally breaks. Luffy has no choice but to transform into a rubber balloon to avoid hitting the gate. After a brief moment of suspense, the crew is finally back in track, cheering for their accomplishment.
The crew amazed by the wonders of nature, they soon see the Grand Line.

As the crew heads down the canal stream towards the Grand Line, a loud roar rings out into the air. Usopp announces he can see a giant mountain in the way, but Nami dismisses it as they should have open sea ahead of them. Suddenly they discover the giant mountain is actually a large whale. The crew concludes that the whale most likely does not know they are there as it appears just like a wall and would not be able to see them with its eyes. They try to come up with ideas before they hit it, but to everyone's dismay, Luffy's way of stopping the ship via cannon works but the idea is to fire a cannonball at the whale. Going Merry's bow figure is broken off as it bumps in the whale. They wonder if it felt the cannonball and call it "stupid" if it did not. But as the crew try and get away from the whale, Luffy hits it in the eye with a punch for breaking off "his special seat", which angers the whale.
The whale spots them with its eye and Luffy threatens it to a fight - resulting in the ship being swallowed. Luffy, however, ends up on top of the whale and is wondering how to get free his crew. He pummels the whale's head as the whale begins to lower into the water. Luffy spots a metal hatch on the surface of the whale just before it submerges.
Inside the whale, the crew wonders if they've entered a dream since there is an island here, and they appear to be outside. As they get near to the island a giant squid appears and is harpooned. Sanji and Zoro comment there must be a man living here and hopes he is friendly. Meanwhile, Luffy finds himself inside a tunnel in the body of the whale.

The Going Merry has entered a weird place: a lake with an island in the middle of a whale's stomach. However, the weirdest part is the old man on the island with his flower-like hairs and annoying attitude. His name is Crocus and is the caretaker of the Twin Cape lighthouse. He reveals to the crew that they are, in fact, in the stomach of the whale who appears to have been "customized." They can leave the whale through a door which Crocus been constructed in the stomach wall. Suddenly, the stomach lake becomes rough. Crocus once again gives the explanation-the whale is hitting his head against the Red Line which has given him numerous scars over the years.
Meanwhile, Luffy also enters the whale strange inside as well as two mysterious characters, Mr. 9 and Miss Wednesday. Due to the whale's behavior, the three of them soon land in the whale's stomach too. They rejoin the others who are trying to escape. Crocus has disappeared into a special room where he can inject sedative to calm the whale through a gigantic syringe. The whale becomes calm once more and the Straw Hat question the 2 mysterious guests. As it appeared, they want to kill the whale. Crocus and Luffy prevent them from doing any harm to Laboon.
Finally, taking advantage of the whale's better mood, Crocus explains his story. He belonged to a pirate crew who stopped by the cape to reach the Grand Line. Due to the danger of the sea, they asked Crocus to take care of Laboon until they returned. The two of them have stayed here waiting since their departure... 50 years ago.

The Straw Hats are amazed at the construction that Crocus has done inside Laboon. Crocus reveals that he used to be a doctor and has worked in a clinic and a ship. This prompts Luffy to ask him to join his crew as a doctor, but Crocus refuses, saying that he is too old.
After exiting Laboon, the crew wonders what to do with miss Wednesday and Mr. 9. Crocus tells them to dump them into the ocean, which they do. When Luffy asks who these guys are, they realize that such a pirate crew could be useful to their organization, and decide to leave after warning them to prepare themselves, and threatening Crocus that they will be back for the whale soon.
As Luffy begins to wonder where Laboon's crew is located, Sanji tells him that they are most likely dead. Crocus tells them that they did not die but merely abandoned their quest as well as Laboon, fearing the vast dangers of the Grand Line. Usopp ponders about how the promise made to Laboon was so casually forfeited. He then goes on about how he tried to explain the situation to Laboon, but Laboon wouldn't believe any of his words and that's when he began his habit of ramming his head against the red line.
Luffy, having listened to the story, decides to do something seemingly odd. He breaks the mast right off Going Merry. He then runs on top of Laboon's head and nails him with it. The whale, screaming in pain, immediately retaliates. Laboon crushes his head, with Luffy on it, on the rocks. After a brief fight, Luffy declares the match a tie, which will have to be sorted out in the future. Thus, Luffy made a new promise with Laboon to meet again, after they have sailed around the Grand Line, to settle their fight once and for all. Luffy's move made everyone rejoice and gave Laboon a new reason to keep on living.

Luffy finishes painting his crew's Jolly Roger on Laboon's forehead as a symbol of his promise to come back and fight the whale again. Meanwhile, Nami charts out the navigation route, Sanji prepares some fish for cooking, and Usopp tries to make repairs on the Going Merry while Zoro sleeps. Suddenly, Nami screams, and as the crew takes a break to eat, she reveals that her compass is spinning around all over the place. Crocus is surprised at their lack of knowledge of the Grand Line, and reveals that the presence of minerals on the islands affects the ocean's magnetic fields. Not only that, but the winds are very unpredictable. He states that they will need a Log Pose, which is a special type of compass that records the magnetic field. Luffy ends up having one, to Nami's surprise, and he reveals that Mr. 9 and Miss Wednesday had left it on their ship.
Crocus states that with the Log Pose, they will have to record the magnetic field interaction while on each island before they can move on to the next. There are seven possible magnetic field paths they could travel down, with each one of them leading to Laugh Tale, the legendary island at the end of the Grand Line. Usopp wonders if One Piece is located on Laugh Tale, and Crocus states that it is likely, but not confirmed. Luffy ends up eating all of the food Sanji made, and he kicks Luffy for eating the food he made specifically for Nami. However, he unwittingly sends Luffy slamming into the Log Pose, destroying it. Nami kicks Luffy and Sanji into the ocean and wonders what they are going to do now, but Crocus says he will give them one out of thanks for helping Laboon.
Meanwhile, Mr. 9 and Miss Wednesday spy on the Straw Hats, confirming that they had left their Log Pose with the crew. Without it, they could not return to their town, and would face the wrath of their boss if they fail to report. They prepare to take it by force when the Unluckies, Mr. 13 the sea otter and Miss Friday the vulture, come flying in. Mr. 9 and Miss Wednesday desperately attempt to make excuses, but the Unluckies drop a package-shaped bomb onto them, blowing them into the ocean. They come back up to shore at the same time and place as Luffy and Sanji, and Mr. 9 requests for the Straw Hats to take them to Whisky Peak. The Straw Hats are suspicious of them and want to learn more, but they assert that their organization necessitates their secrecy, offering to pay them back if the Straw Hats help them. Nami mentions that they had broken the Log Pose they had stolen from them, stunning them, before reassuring them about the one Crocus gave them. Crocus cautions them about choosing to go to Whisky Peak and its route, but the Straw Hats are confident as they say farewell to him and Laboon. As he watches them go off, Crocus wonders to Roger if these are the pirates they were waiting for.

After their departure from Twin Cape, the Straw Hat Pirates start their journey on the Grand Line. However Nami has a hard time understanding the Grand Line's unpredictable and wild climate when lightning follows a blizzard. Things get worse when Miss Wednesday asks her if she has checked her Log Pose and she realizes their ship is going the wrong way after just a few moments of inattention. The next hour is a non-stop fight against the inconsistent weather.
Finally, the Straw Hat Pirates manage to reach a period of calm. Everyone takes this opportunity to rest except Zoro who finally wakes up. When he is about to ask Miss Wednesday and Mr. 9 about their real motivation, Nami punches him for sleeping while the rest struggled against the weather. However, she is now fully confident in her navigation skills in the Grand Line for the future, as she feels more comfortable with the climate patterns.
Soon the Whisky Peak, Miss Wednesday and Mr. 9's island, comes into view. While the two take this opportunity to leave the ship and jump overboard the Straw Hat Pirates wonder how their first Grand Line island experience will play out. They ponder if it has monsters, enemies, and so forth. But against all expectations, they receive a cheerful welcome from the inhabitants who invite them to a party.

As night falls on Whisky Peak, the welcoming party for the Straw Hats continues. Usopp regales the people with his stories, Zoro and Nami outlast them in drinking, Sanji woos several women, and Luffy eats enough food for 20 people. Meanwhile, Mr. 9 and Miss Wednesday report to their boss via letter that they succeeded in luring the Straw Hats to this island. Zoro collapses from drinking before Nami does, and all of the Straw Hats eventually pass out from exhaustion. Mr. 9 and Miss Wednesday confront Mr. 8 as he heads outside, and Mr. 8 reports that the Straw Hats have fallen into their doom.
The nun that Nami was drinking against then comes out, having actually drunk barley tea. As she removes her robes, Miss Monday wonders if this welcoming party was actually necessary, saying they should have just crushed the Straw Hats at the harbor. However, Mr. 8 shows them Luffy's bounty poster, to their shock. He orders them to tie up all the Straw Hats and take all the treasure from their ship, telling them to keep them alive to earn the entire reward. However, Zoro then calls out to them from a nearby rooftop, and the agents inside report to the ones outside that he had managed to escape. Zoro states that a true swordsman never allows alcohol to take control of himself, and looks forward to taking on the 100 Baroque Works agents confronting him.
The agents are shocked that he knows their organizations' name, and Zoro reveals that he was unsuccessfully recruited to join it back when he was a bounty hunter. Mr. 8 states that they must kill him for knowing their secrets, and place his tombstone among the many others at Cactus Rock. In their brief moment of distraction, they lose sight of Zoro, and he appears right among them. They rush to attack, but he overwhelms several of them before speeding away again. He appears behind Mr. 8 and plants his sword into the agent's hair. Mr. 8 desperately tells the agents to not shoot, and he brings out a saxophone that functions as a shotgun. Zoro quickly speeds away from the blast as many agents are taken out, and Mr. 8, Miss Monday, Mr. 9, and Miss Wednesday state that they will need to take on Zoro themselves.

Zoro announces that he knows their secret company that they are "Baroque Works" while Luffy and the rest of the crew are sleeping. Baroque Works attempt to kill him to protect their secret identity. Zoro thinks it will be a good chance to test his new swords and have some fun. The fight between Zoro and the 100 bounty hunters begins.
A bounty hunter sees him and shoots him from the top of a building but Zoro ducks into a house. Then he sees that he is surrounded by more bounty hunters. They shoot at him but he uses a table as his shield. Then Zoro escapes, using the Yubashiri and gets out of the building. He goes upstairs and a bounty hunter with a bazooka shoots at him but Zoro ducks down. Miss Monday sees him at the stairs and she throws a barrel full of liquor at him. Zoro cuts it in four pieces that hit four more members in front of Zoro. Someone with a stone hammer tries to hit him from behind but Zoro dodges it in time and cuts the stone saying that "This one cuts through stone, the Sandai Kitetsu" blade is remarkably sharp'. A young boy tries to attack him with a knife, but Zoro flips it away. A nun comes and hugs the kid saying "God, please protect us" then she pulls away her cross where smoke comes out in the middle. Zoro avoids the smoke, and hits the nun and boy. He climbs up a ladder, with a lot of members following him up the ladder but Zoro pushes the ladder off the building, and the bounty hunters fall with the ladder. He jumps to another building and tricks the bounty hunters on the building, to fall through a hole he made on the roof.
Miss Monday surprises Zoro by trying to hit him from behind with one of the ladders. Zoro ducks in time, but then she catches him by his neck and punches him in the face with her super-human strength. Zoro then grabs her with his right hand and he challenges Miss Monday to a game of strength, which she loses. Mr. 8 thinks that the Marines got the bounty poster wrong, and that Zoro must be the real captain due to his strength.

Mr. 8, Mr. 9, and Miss Wednesday are shaken and angered by their forces' inability to take down Zoro. Intent on fulfilling their responsibility to watch over this town, Mr. 8 takes out his saxophone and blows into it, which shoots bullets at Zoro. Zoro dodges the shots, and Mr. 9 and Miss Wednesday go on the move. While Mr. 9 leaps up toward the roof, Miss Wednesday mounts her duck Karoo to use its great speed to pursue Zoro. Karoo has trouble following Miss Wednesday's directions, and Mr. 9 performs acrobatic flips to attack Zoro from behind with two metal bats. He is cocky about the power of his bats, and warns Zoro to not let his swords get chipped, but Zoro manages to unnerve him by merely quickly drawing his sword and pointing it at the agent. Mr. 9 loses his composure as he swats recklessly at Zoro's sword, and Zoro wonders where his acrobatic finesse went. Mr. 9 decides to show it to him again and does a backflip, but ends up jumping off the roof and crashing to the ground.
Zoro wonders if anyone here is more competent when Miss Wednesday confronts him. She performed a dance, using the spiral design of her top to make Zoro dizzy. Zoro was overwhelmed by the dance, and Miss Wednesday charged at him to finish him off with her Peacock Slashers. However, Karoo moved so that her weapon-carrying hand was on the wrong side, and Miss Wednesday rode off the roof. Zoro was ashamed that he had to fight these people, but had to quickly dodge more of Mr. 8's shots. Zoro cut a hole in the roof and went down to the ground, where he hid in an alley and encountered Mr. 9 again. Mr. 9 extended the tip of one of his bats with an iron rope, tying up one of Zoro's arms with it. Miss Wednesday then brought out the sleeping Luffy, threatening to kill him if Zoro moved. Mr. 8 fires at Zoro with guns in his hair, but Zoro pulls on the rope, sending Mr. 9 flying into the path of the explosive shots. Zoro then throws Mr. 9 at Miss Wednesday and Karoo, sending them flying away from Luffy. Using Luffy's inflated body as a trampoline, Zoro bounces up to Mr. 8, cutting him down with a single slash as the battle comes to an end.

Luffy wakes up for a second but soon returns to sleep. The Baroque Works members, Mr. 8 and Miss Wednesday, attempt to run from the Straw Hats. However, to their horror they are spotted by Mr. 13 and Miss Friday. They suddenly hear someone order them to stop. They turn and spot two more Baroque Works members holding their guns at them. They ask for them to identify themselves and they answer with their code names.
Meanwhile, Zoro sits, drinking. Mr. 8 stands up, severely injured, and spots Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine behind him. The two officer agents reveal that Miss Wednesday is Nefertari Vivi, princess of Arabasta, and Mr. 8 is Igaram, her servant. Zoro watches from above, unnoticed. Mr. 9 is surprised and bows to Vivi while Vivi yells at him for acting so stupid. Zoro grabs Luffy and sprints away.
Mr. 5 announces they are here to kill the two traitors, but Mr. 9 stands before Vivi, saying that he cannot let his partner die. He is hit with an explosive by Mr. 5. As Zoro comments on Mr. 5's exploding booger. Igaram begs Zoro to save Vivi. While she escapes on Karoo, Nami appears. She proposes they will save Vivi if they pay 1,000,000,000.

Igaram is exasperated by Nami's offer of a 1,000,000,000 to protect Vivi. With Luffy still asleep, Zoro asks whether Nami should still be unconscious from all the alcohol she drank at the welcoming party. Nami retorts that she didn't want to drink and lower her guard, due to her suspicions of the Whisky Peak villagers' behavior, before bragging that she could have drunk much more if she had intended to, much to Zoro's chagrin. Turning to Igaram, Nami happily asks him whether he can guarantee the payment and additionally reminds the head of the Arabasta Royal Guard that without their help, Nefertari Vivi could die.
After some bartering, Igaram tells Nami that she will have to negotiate the payment with Vivi herself, only after her safe journey to Arabasta has been assured - Nami agrees with a haughty sigh and subsequently commands Zoro to assist the Princess.
A shocked Zoro at first refuses, claiming that the monetary scheme should be her responsibility, before Nami quips that even if the money is hers, the contract involves the entire Straw Hat crew. They continue to argue, whilst Luffy wakes up from his slumber in order to urinate, ignoring his crew-mates' squabble. Nami finally coaxes a frustrated Zoro into assisting her, by offering to rescind the unpaid added interest of 200,000 Belly on the money she loaned out to him at Loguetown.
As Zoro leaves to assist Vivi, cursing that Nami won't have a peaceful death, Igaram laments his weakness in failing to protect Vivi. Nami reassures him that Zoro is 'monstrously strong', with Igaram iterating that Vivi's survival is incredibly important for Arabasta's future.
Meanwhile, across town, Vivi is attempting to escape Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine by riding Karoo to a ship docked behind Cactus Rock. Mr. 5 comments on how her efforts are useless. Miss Monday aids a grateful Vivi by standing in the path of the two Baroque Works agents, reasoning that the whole band of bounty hunters in Whisky Peak would be punished anyway for suffering defeat at Zoro's hands. Disappointed with her sullying of Baroque Works' name, Mr. 5 incapacitates Miss Monday with a single clothesline that explodes on impact.
He continues to explain to a shocked Vivi, that his very person is a human bomb, being able to make any body part explode, having eaten the Bomu Bomu no Mi; he then picks his nose, flicking a bogey and subsequently launching a Nose Fancy Cannon. Suddenly, Zoro slices it in half, rescuing a surprised Vivi; the resultant explosive fragments destroy the buildings lining the road. Mr. 5 ponders who the swordsman is.
Zoro is disgusted at having to slice a bogey in half. Vivi at first believes that Zoro is there to prevent her escape, attacking him; Zoro casually blocks it, informing that he is in fact there to rescue her.
The scene then jumps to Nami, who asks Igaram about Baroque Works; he tells her that it is a secret criminal organization in which none of its members know the true identity of their boss, a man who bestows orders ranging from intelligence gathering to assassinations. Nami asks why the organisation members follow the commands of an unknown entity; Igaram replies that the ultimate aim of the group is to create an ideal nation, with high-ranking positions being awarded to those individuals who bring great success to the organisation. He also reveals that the boss has a codename of Mr. 0, explaining that the lower the number, the higher-ranked and the stronger that particular person will be within this ideal nation; he stresses that the strength of those with a number ranking of 5 or below are 'abnormal'.
Luffy is now seen walking by the river running through the town, having just urinated. He becomes shocked at something off-panel.
We return to the two Baroque Works agents, who identify Zoro as the one who defeated the town's agents; they ask him further why he is protecting Vivi. After an ambiguous answer from Zoro, the pair prepare to attack, Miss Valentine boasting about her Devil Fruit ability.
However, Luffy interrupts, shouting from further down the road that vows to never forgive Zoro and challenges his crew-mate to a fight, much to Zoro's surprise.

Zoro loudly asks Luffy what idiotic things is he saying to him, and Luffy replies that an ungrateful person like him should get beaten. Zoro wonders how he is ungrateful, and Luffy says that he can never forgive Zoro as he remembers standing by the defeated bounty hunters who had fed him, who said that Zoro had attacked them. Luffy yells at Zoro in anger for cutting down the townspeople that fed them the night before, and Nefertari Vivi wonders how dense Luffy is. Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine stand nearby, getting annoyed at the crewmates' argument and wanting to kill them off. Zoro attempts to explain to Luffy that the townspeople were actually bounty hunters, but Luffy cuts him off as he rushes to attack him in a fit of rage. Zoro dodges Luffy's punch, which shatters a building, and he wonders in amazement if Luffy is actually trying to kill him. Luffy replies that he indeed is trying to kill Zoro, and Zoro dodges more attacks as he futilely attempts to reason with Luffy.
Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine conclude that Luffy and Zoro are not interfering with their business and resume their mission to eliminate the princess of Arabasta. However, they accidentally receive Zoro's kick aimed at Luffy, which sends all three flying into buildings. Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine think that the pirates were trying to sabotage them all along, and Mr. 5 prepares to kill Luffy, causing the building they are in to explode. Miss Valentine flies away from the explosion into the air, revealing that she is now 1 kilogram due to the power of the Kiro Kiro no Mi. Vivi warns Zoro to get out of the way, but he silences her, not having time for anyone right now. He then watches as Luffy walks out of the damaged building dragging an unconscious Mr. 5, having burned enough calories to return to his normal size.
Vivi is shocked that Mr. 5, an Officer Agent, was defeated, and Zoro attempts to speak with Luffy, telling him that the townspeople were bounty hunters. As Miss Valentine hovers in the air, annoyed that everyone is ignoring her, Luffy calls Zoro a liar, saying that no enemies would feed them. Miss Valentine finally snaps and changes her weight to 10,000 kilograms, falling toward Zoro with great force, but he steps away as she plants into the ground. Zoro finally gets tired of Luffy's stupidity and prepares to get serious, appalling Vivi. The two crewmates rush at each other and clash, determined to test whether Luffy's unarmed strength or Zoro's swordsmanship is more powerful. They knock each other into opposite walls, and Vivi wonders if it is safe to escape, but her path is cut off as Luffy and Zoro rush at each other again. Meanwhile, Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine simmer in anger over their humiliating defeats, and decide to get revenge on Luffy and Zoro. However, the two pirates stop fighting and tell the agents that them getting in the way of their fight is annoying, and they blow Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine away.

After getting rid of Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine, Zoro and Luffy return to their fight. However, they are quickly stopped by Nami who does not want to lose an opportunity to earn 1 billion belly.
Everyone explains to each other but Vivi is unable to promise the reward to Nami. Her country, Arabasta, is on the verge of a civil war, which had secretly been started by the Baroque Works organization. In order to help her country, Princess Vivi has infiltrated Baroque Works with her counselor, Igaram, in order to understand the organisation's true motives. She learned that their ultimate plan they call Dream Country, is in reality to conquer Arabasta by putting it into chaos. When Luffy asks Vivi who is pulling the strings, she accidentally reveals that Mr. 0 is Crocodile, one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea. Unfortunately for them, Baroque Works' Unluckies agents have overheard her revealing the information and they quickly put the three Straw Hat on their organisation's wanted list.
Now that they share the same enemy as Vivi, Igaram proposes a plan: he will go directly to Arabasta, thanks to an Eternal Pose, while the Straw Hat will accompany Vivi through the standard road which will be longer but safer. However, as soon as he departs, Igaram's boat explodes. Luffy does not hesitate any further and states he will help Vivi reach her country.

Having just witnessed Igaram's ship get destroyed, Luffy immediately wakes up Sanji and Usopp. Grabbing them by Usopp's nose and Sanji's leg, he drags them out of the Whisky Peak Bar and gives them a rude awakening. Zoro, meanwhile, prepares the Going Merry to set sail. As everyone gathers at the Going Merry, Vivi expresses that she still wants to go around town to look for Karoo. To her surprise, she finds out that Karoo climbed on board the ship before even Zoro got in. With that matter settled, everyone prepares to set sail. At the same time, a mysterious figure emerges from the flames of the explosion that destroyed Igaram's ship.
Due to their rude awakening, Sanji and Usopp do not know anything and protest to stay in town a little longer. Fortunately, Nami explains everything to them with a conk in their heads. As the Going Merry sails from Whisky Peak, the crew find out that someone else is on board. The person is the mysterious figure that came out of explosion and is Miss All Sunday. It is explained then that not only was she the one who blew Igaram's ship, but she also she is Crocodile's partner and Vice President of Baroque Works.
Vivi continues to explain that she and her compatriots were able to learn the true identity of Baroque Work's boss and plans by following Miss All Sunday. Miss All Sunday, however, explains that she had let Vivi follow her. Hearing this, Vivi suddenly suspects that Miss All Sunday was the one who told Crocodile of her true identity. Miss All Sunday goes on explaining that she helped Vivi because she felt that the princess worked very hard, but she finds the princess' resolve to go against Baroque Work's stupid.
Upon the conversation becoming heated, the Straw Hats prepared themselves to fight with Sanji and Usopp both preparing to shoot Miss All Sunday with a gun and Usopp's slingshot, respectively. The two prepared to shoot despite not fully understanding what was happening. However despite being surrounded, Miss All Sunday simply flips both Sanji and Usopp with her Devil Fruit powers, leaving the rest in shock. While everyone is wondering what power she has, Miss All Sunday grabs Luffy's straw hat and explains to the Straw Hats their next destination on the Log Pose route they are following. That place, Little Garden, is so dangerous that not even Baroque Works need to deal with them there. To help them avoid such an obstacle, Miss All Sunday gives them an Eternal Pose that will lead them somewhere else. She however gives them the choice to accept this or not as she states it might be a trap.
Luffy declines this offer and crushes the Eternal Pose in his bare hand despite Nami's protest. He states that he did this because Miss All Sunday does not have the right to tell them where to go, and because he hated her for bombing Igaram's ship. With that Miss All Sunday left the Straw Hats on her giant turtle, Banchi. Having escaped that danger, the Straw Hats continued sailing to Little Garden. As they sailed, Sanji and Usopp are properly filled in about the situation, while Luffy wonders if it's gonna snow again.

Vivi begins to appreciate life on board the Going Merry and the carefree lifestyle of her new friends. She has reservations as she constantly warns them to not underestimate the dangers that await them on the Grand Line.
After a calm journey, they finally arrive at Little Garden, about which Miss All Sunday had warned them. It appears to be a weird tropical forest and is inhabited by even stranger animals. Nami is not eager to leave the boat as their Log Pose resets but the rest of the crew has an opposing opinion. Luffy craves adventure and decides to set out to explore. Much to Nami's surprise, Vivi decides to accompany Luffy in order to be distracted from her worries. She drags along a not-so-willing Karoo.
After they depart, Sanji asks Zoro to go on a hunt in order to retrieve more food as they are running low. Zoro, who is not so pleased to work on Sanji's orders, replies with a nasty comment that he would get something bigger than Sanji anyways. Sanji refuses to lose face in front of Nami and challenges Zoro to a hunt contest-to see who can bring back the largest weight in food for the crew.
Luffy and Vivi discover weird animals and they realize Little Garden is, in fact, a prehistoric island which has stayed evolutionary-wise at the dinosaur era.
Meanwhile back at the boat, Nami and Usopp are alone and not confident aboard the Going Merry. Nami finds a book which explains the island's name. Suddenly a giant shadow approaches them.

As he explores Little Garden, Sanji hears Nami screaming before encountering a tyrannosaurus rex, while Zoro comes face to face with a triceratops. On the Sunny, Nami and Usopp stare in shock in fear as they meet a giant named Brogy, who asks them if they have any rum. Brogy shouts when a dinosaur bites his backside, causing Nami and Usopp to scream in fear, and they grow even more afraid when Brogy quickly decapitates the dinosaur and holds up its head, proclaiming that he is Elbaf's strongest warrior. Brogy welcomes Nami and Usopp as guests, but they are so afraid that they are playing dead. Meanwhile, Luffy stands atop a brontosaurus' head as he views the island from high up. Vivi tells him to get down, but Luffy is unafraid and wants to go to a rock with strange-looking holes he saw. However, the dinosaur flips its head back and swallows Luffy, but it is immediately decapitated by the giant Dorry, causing Luffy to fall out of its throat and land in Dorry's hand. Dorry proclaims himself to be Elbaf's strongest warrior, and as Vivi looks at him in fear, he invites her and Luffy to his place.
At Brogy's home, the giant offers Nami and Usopp some of the dinosaur meat he cooked, but the duo see skeletons all around them and believe that Brogy is going to eat them as well. Nami asks how long it will take the Log Pose to record this island, and Brogy reveals that it takes a year, leaving her and Usopp aghast. At Dorry's home, Vivi watches as Luffy makes easy conversation with the giant while eating. Luffy asks about where Dorry came from, and Dorry reveals that he comes from a village on Elbaf, which is somewhere on the Grand Line. However, his village has a rule that quarrels that cannot be resolved will be decided by the gods through combat. He is currently fighting Brogy over a disagreement, although the two of them have now been fighting for over 100 years. Vivi is appalled by this custom and speaks out about it, but the volcano in the center of the island erupts, signaling for Dorry and Brogy to resume their battle. Luffy quiets Vivi's attempts to stop the fight, and Dorry affirms that he is now only fighting Brogy for pride, as the two of them had forgotten the reason for their original disagreement. The two giants clash, and Luffy collapses to the ground, being overwhelmed from interacting with the massive giants.

On Kyuka Island, Mr. 3 is lounging around drinking tea when his partner Miss Goldenweek says that she is bored. He tells her to enjoy her time off and to not call him by his codename so casually, and asks about the paper she has been staring at for a few days. To his shock, it is their next set of orders from their boss, and he finds out that Mr. 5 has been beaten. Mr. 3 says that Mr. 5 is an overconfident fool who overestimates his Devil Fruit abilities, and decides to go and teach the people that beat him a lesson about antagonizing their organization.
On Little Garden, Nami and Usopp watch as Dorry and Brogy fight each other viciously, not holding back in any of their attacks and often barely avoiding receiving fatal strikes. Nami wants to take this opportunity to escape, but Usopp wants to watch a little longer, expressing how impressed he is by the giants' pride and wanting to become a brave warrior of the sea like them someday. He states that he would like to visit their giant warrior village Elbaf one day. After exchanging several more blows, Dorry and Brogy's fight ends in a draw for the 73,466th time, and Brogy offers Dorry some rum he got from Nami and Usopp.
Dorry takes the rum back to his campsite, where he finds out that Nami and Usopp are with Luffy and Vivi. Vivi asks about the Log Pose taking a year to finish recording Little Garden, and Dorry confirms this, revealing that all the human skeletons around them are of sailors who perished before their Log set. Dorry says that he only has an Eternal Pose that points toward Elbaf, and Vivi weeps over what might happen to her country if she is stuck here for a year. Dorry jokingly suggests setting sail there and leaving it to fate, and laughs when Luffy is open to the idea. Meanwhile, Usopp tells Brogy about his dream, and Brogy states that the giants' biggest wish is to die without tarnishing their pride. Suddenly, Dorry's rum explodes while he is drinking it, greatly injuring him and knocking him over. Luffy is sure that Brogy would never do something underhanded like that, but this leaves Dorry to believe that they are the culprits as he confronts Luffy and Vivi. Luffy gives Vivi his straw hat as he goes to fight Dorry, despite Vivi's pleas.

Dorry believes that the Straw Hats betrayed him and attacks Luffy. Vivi tries to convince him that they didn't know who put the explosive in the barrel. She tells him to stay put because his body is damaged enough. Dorry tries to slash him with his sword, but Luffy evades the attack. He jumps in front of Dorry's face and prepares a punch, but Dorry knocks him with his shield. Luffy uses his rubber body to grab a tree from the forest and launches himself and evades another one of Dorry's sword attacks. He then uses Gomu Gomu no Rocket to launch himself towards Dorry and nearly knocks him out. Dorry steps on him and realizes that Luffy is a Devil Fruit user and that he was careless and falls unconscious. Luffy gets out of the dirt. Vivi said that she thinks Dorry will be alright and that Luffy did the right thing because otherwise he wouldn't have calmed down. Luffy is pissed off, and said that it couldn't be the other giant or one of his crew mates that placed the explosive in the barrel. He said that he believes that someone besides his crew and the giants are on the island.
Somewhere else a dinosaur tries to bite something white and destroys his teeth. The dinosaur is confused staying in front of a wax house.Mr. 5 orders the dinosaur to move and Miss Valentine uses 10000 KG Press to knock it out. After that they enter the wax house. Inside it, Mr. 3 and Miss Goldenweek were waiting. Mr. 3 was drinking tea while Miss Goldenweek was sleeping. Mr. 5 compliments Mr. 3 for his ability to make an instant hideout in the middle of the jungle. He asks that they let him and his partner complete the mission since it is still theirs. Miss Valentine said that they won't make the same mistake twice. Mr. 3 mocks the Mr. 5 pair by saying that they failed because they are weak not because they made a mistake. Miss Valentine stated that they failed because they had no idea that the princess would have pirate escorts. Mr. 3 mocks them because saying that they are resorting to childish excuses. He said that they are professionals and that losing to their opponent is as shameful as revealing their organization existence to the general public. Mr. 3 continues, saying that the missions they undertake must be accomplished perfectly with no mistakes. As a second chance, he offers them 30% of the pay from the job because they managed to tail the targets to Little Garden. He states that if the Mr. 5 pair still don't want him to interfere he needs to take some actions so that the 2 will not interfere with him again. Mr. 3 offers them black tea, telling them there is a fortuitous opportunity for them on the island, an opportunity to make a huge sum of money. Mr. 3 shows them the bounty posters of Dorry and Brogy and thanks them for the chance to come on the island. He explains that those wanted posters are from 100 years ago, telling them that there was once a group of giant pirates who pillaged town after town and terrified the entire world. He continues saying that the group was called the Warrior Giant Pirates and the captains were the ones known as Dorry the Blue Ogre and Brogy the Red Ogre, but their names faded into legends. Mr. 3 said that the 2 were still alive and their bounties were not called off either. He revealed that their 2 bounties were worth 100,000,000 each, in short 200,000,000. Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine are surprised at hearing the immense amount of money they could make. Mr. 3 tells them that if they are going to succeed in their mission and also bring 200,000,000 their promotions are guaranteed. Mr. 5 understand the reason why Mr. 3 placed the bomb inside the rum barrels. Mr. 3 said that they would stand no chance to fight them head-on and tells them to follow his commands. Mr. 3 said that with a little scheming even a mountain can be leveled down to the ground.
Meanwhile, the volcano erupts again and Brogy is prepared for battle. Usopp worries about the injuries he received, but Brogy tells him that both he and Dorry were injured in the previous battle, and that making such excuses in a relentless fight to the death would only tarnish one's honor.
Dorry struggles to step up and fight and Vivi tries to stop him warning him that he might die from his injuries if he fights. Dorry states that he vows to give a fight worthy of Elbaf's honor.

Usopp encourages Brogy as he heads to fight Dorry again, and Nami decides to go back to the ship to meet back up with everyone. Usopp says he is unable to fight off all the dinosaurs on the way back, but promises to one day become a proud warrior of the seas, and Nami decides to instead go and see Luffy at Dorry's campsite. Meanwhile, Dorry puts the entire mountain on top of Luffy, preventing the pirate from stopping him from fighting. He states that he cannot avoid this fight no matter how injured he is, as his god wills it. Luffy is unable to understand being willing to die for a god in an unfair fight, but Dorry says that Luffy does not understand the highest honor of Elbaf. Dorry and Brogy then confront each other, and Vivi is surprised by how invested Luffy is in Dorry's safety despite only having just met the giant.
Meanwhile, Mr. 3, Miss Goldenweek, and Mr. 5 conspire against their enemies. With the Straw Hats in chaos due to the exploding rum, the Baroque Works agents prepare to take out Dorry first, before luring the Straw Hats into a trap. Mr. 3 has pictures of Luffy, Zoro, Nami, and Vivi. Zoro is lost after hunting a triceratops when he thinks he sees Nami leaning against a nearby tree. However, the figure that looks like Nami does not make a sound, and smirks. The real Nami is running away from a dinosaur with Usopp, and she sees a duplicate of Luffy leaning on a tree. She goes up to it, and screams after seeing what it really is. Usopp hears her screams, and panics due to being unable to see her. He runs out of the woods to Luffy and Vivi, saying that Nami was eaten by the dinosaur. He admits that he did not look to check due to his fear of the dinosaurs, and Vivi wonders if Baroque Works sent someone here after them. She and Luffy suspect that they may have rigged the rum, and Usopp is aghast when he finds out about Dorry's injury. Dorry is currently only at a slight disadvantage as he fights Brogy, but Mr. 3 decides to interfere. He creates a slippery white substance under Dorry's foot that causes him to slip, leaving him open for Brogy to hit him.

Mr. 3's interference allows Brogy to land a great blow on Dorry's chest, defeating the latter. Luffy becomes very enraged and yells out, wanting to know who had weakened Dorry. Miss Goldenweek hears him, but Mr. 3 pays no attention. Brogy starts to cry with happiness over finally winning in their duel, when Mr. 3 approaches him and thanks him. He introduces himself to Brogy before revealing that he has encased the giant's feet with wax using the power of the Doru Doru no Mi.
Meanwhile, Usopp and Vivi decide to go find the people who harmed Dorry. Right then, however, Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine come out of the woods with a defeated Karoo. Mr. 5 reveals that they had been trying to lure Vivi away from Luffy by forcing Karoo to cry out for her, but the duck refused even to the point of severe beating. Usopp asks if they put the bomb in Dorry's rum, which they affirm, and they note that they had not seen him before. Usopp and Vivi then pull out their weapons and race to attack, with Usopp launching an explosive shot at Mr. 5. However, Mr. 5 is unharmed due to his Devil Fruit power, and he responds by flicking an explosive ball of mucus at Usopp. Miss Valentine then leaps into the air before becoming much heavier and slamming into Usopp. Vivi attempts to attack Mr. 5, but he overwhelms her with an explosion before grabbing her by the neck. He says that he is not going to kill Vivi, but rather take her to Mr. 3 on his orders. Meanwhile, Mr. 3 has pinned Brogy to the ground with his wax as he states his intention to create a masterpiece of artwork.

Vivi is captured by Miss. Valentine and Mr. 5. Mr. 5 is surprised Luffy was strong enough to still be awake after the last bomb had gone off in his face. He then tells Luffy that he has captured his friends, Nami and Zoro. Luffy smiles and responds that if has captured Zoro he will soon be the one in trouble, and not Zoro. Luffy then continues to insult Mr. 5 until Mr. 5's patience is tried and bombs him once more with his Devil Fruit powers. Luffy is finally knocked unconscious and the baroque works agents leave with Vivi.
Meanwhile, Brogy is completely immobilized by Mr. 3's wax. Mr. 3 tells Brogy how he helped him during his fight with Dorry. Brogy becomes angry due to his honorable victor being stolen due to a treacherous interceding. Vivi is delivered to Mr. 3. She insults him for his lack of morals. Mr. 3 smiles and makes a giant candelabra and gloats about completing his art collection. He informs them they will soon be turned into wax figures and be added to his collection. Brogy then states that at the beginning of the fight he knew something was wrong, but he realizes now that it was Mr. 3 that hurt his pride for defeating a weakened opponent. Brogy attempts to stand up once more only to be hit by one of Mr. 5's bombs.
Meanwhile at Dorry's camp, Luffy has regained consciousness and strengthens his resolve to defeat the baroque works agents. Karoo and Usopp promise to fight gallantly to save their friends as well.

While Brogy attempts to get up, Mr. 3 realizes he needs to use more force to keep him down. He creates four large swords from his Wax-Wax fruit powers and impales his hands and feet to the ground. Brogy screams as he is immobilized. Mr. 3 increases the speed of his Candelabra technique and explains that the Straw Hats will be turned into a group of wax statues, preserving the look of horror on their faces forever.
Brogy once again attempts to free himself but fails. Zoro becomes inspired by the giants attempts to free himself and resolves to cut off his own legs to escape and fight his way to freedom. Brogy is impressed by the warriors honor and attempts one last time to free himself. Fortunately, Luffy, Karoo, and Usopp arrive before Zoro goes through with it and they vow to defeat the baroque works agents. Zoro requests Luffy to destroy the candle but Mr. 3 challenges that he will not allow it.

Luffy, Usopp, and Karoo arrive at Mr. 3's Giant Candle Service Set, and Luffy says he will destroy it. Nami and Zoro bicker about Zoro's plans while they are trapped, and Vivi notes how carefree they are despite still being in trouble. Mr. 3 does not think much of Luffy, but knows that he is stronger than Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine, so he has them take on the others while he attacks Luffy. Usopp says he will provide backup for Luffy from behind the trees, and Brogy asks why Zoro is no longer trying to get out. Zoro replies that there is now someone who will try to get them out, but Mr. 3 immediately manages to lock Luffy's feet into a candle with his Devil Fruit ability. However, Luffy seems to like the wax binding, and he dodges Mr. 3's attempt to lock his arms together as he wraps his arms around Dorry's sword impaled into Brogy's hand. Luffy apologizes to Brogy as he spins around, causing greater injury to the giant, but at the end of his spin he flies into the giant candle's pole and slams his candle binding into it, destroying both of them and causing the wax pumpkin on top to fall down.
The pumpkin misses Nami, Zoro, and Vivi, as Luffy did not realize they could not move. The wax encasement on their bodies increases, bringing them closer to complete suffocation, and Luffy works fast to destroy the giant candle. Mr. 3 attacks him with a wax harpoon, and Usopp tries to shoot an explosive bullet at him, but Mr. 5 swallows the shot, causing it to explode inside his body without dealing any harm. Luffy attempts to destroy the pumpkin, but Mr. 3 blocks his punches with a wall of wax. Luffy gets annoyed at Mr. 3, who uses Candle Lock again but only manages to encase one of Luffy's hands, and Luffy happily says that he has a hammer again. A perturbed Mr. 3 quickly tries to protect himself with a Candle Wall, but Luffy breaks through it and hits him, sending him flying far away. Nami tells Luffy to destroy the giant candle, but Luffy inexplicably refuses, saying that he does not feel like it. Miss Goldenweek then comes onto the scene, revealing that she is using "Colors Trap".

Nami asks Luffy to free them from the candle, but Luffy seems unwilling to help even thought he realizes the danger.
Meanwhile, Usopp and Karoo are hiding in bushes and are suddenly found by Mr. 5 and Miss. Valentine. They explain that Luffy is under the spell of Color Trap, where she can influence the behavior of a victim based on the colors she draws on them, before attacking the duo. Usopp and Karoo try to escape, while Vivi realizes that Luffy's lethargic attitude must be due to of Miss Goldenweek, who explains her "color trap" ability.
Vivi then tricks Luffy into stepping out of the trap which returns Luffy to normal. Unfortunately, he then gets caught in another of Miss. Goldenweek's traps as she paints it directly on his shirt.
Nami, Zoro and Vivi look on in horror of their impeding doom.
Meanwhile, Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine are still chasing Usopp and Karoo, who frees Luffy from his trap but he is once again unable to combat Miss Goldenweeks' abilities. As the fight between the two duos continue, Mr. 5 realizes that he is not fast enough to catch Usopp and Karoo, while Usopp heads back to the candle and finds he friends waxed. Mr. 5 reveals a new weapon: a .44 revolver that can shoot 6 bullets at the same time.
However, instead of trying to help himself, Usopp fires at Luffy destroying his shirt and freeing him from color trap once more. Usopp is promptly shot by Mr. 5. Luffy becomes furious and declares that he will defeat them.

Sanji notes that he has waited on the Going Merry for a while now, and so decides to go look and see what is going on. As he calls out for Nami and Vivi, he notices a house made out of wax. Meanwhile, Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine tell the angry Luffy to accept the death of his friends. Mr. 3 then creates a massive suit of wax armor around his body, which he calls the "Candle Champion", and he prepares to finish off Luffy. Mr. 3 wants Miss Goldenweek to paint his suit, but she declines, and Luffy is distracted as he stares in awe at the Candle Champion. After Usopp yells at him, Luffy attempts to attack, but his punch is easily batted away by Mr. 3's giant wax fist. Mr. 3 unleashes several punches at Luffy, who tries to respond by kicking him in the face, but Mr. 3 shields himself from the kick.
Usopp then realizes that they can use fire to melt Mr. 3's candle wax, and tells this to Luffy. However, Mr. 3 reveals that Zoro, Nami, and Vivi's hearts will stop in 30 seconds due to their wax encasement. Usopp attempts to free them by shooting a fire bullet, but Mr. 5 shoots him with an explosive bullet. Luffy attempts to attack Mr. 5, but is pounded into the ground by Mr. 3, and as Usopp tries handing Karoo a rope, Miss Valentine confronts him. She sits on Usopp and steadily increases her weight, and Mr. 5 shoots at Karoo as the duck runs off with the rope. Luffy manages to get to Mr. 3's head and pulls on his hair, intending to use the flame at the end of it to free his friends. Usopp tells Luffy to burn Karoo's rope, which is covered in oil and is now wrapped around the candelabra. Luffy then slams Mr. 3 headfirst onto the end of the rope in front of him.

Thanks to Usopp and Karoo's rope, Luffy manages to set Mr. 3's candelabra ablaze with the agent's flaming hair. Mr. 3's Candle Champion starts melting as well, and he runs off into the woods with Karoo chasing him. Mr. 5 and Miss Valentine are left enraged, and Miss Valentine flips up into the air as she prepares to finish off Usopp with a 10,000 kilogram axe kick. However, Nami and Vivi attack Miss Valentine with their weapons as they emerge from the fire, having been freed by it. Mr. 5 aims his gun at them, and Usopp seemingly shoots an Exploding Star at him. Mr. 5 eats it to try to neutralize it, but Usopp reveals that it was actually a hot sauce shot. Mr. 5 struggles to handle the sauce, and decides to kill the Straw Hats by blowing himself up as he wraps himself around Usopp. However, Zoro then emerges from the fire and cuts Mr. 5, defeating him. Brogy, having freed himself from Dorry's sword being implanted into his hand, then approaches the Straw Hats, noting that there are two enemies yet to be defeated.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Karoo chase after Mr. 3, only to come to a clearing filled with duplicates of the agent. Mr. 3 asks if Luffy knows which of him is real, saying a fighter who relies on instinct like him could not figure it out. As he talks to Luffy, the real Mr. 3 starts sneaking up on him from behind, readying a knife to stab him. However, Luffy immediately kicks the real Mr. 3 in the face, saying he knew which one he was based on instinct. Karoo then spots Miss Goldenweek peeking at the scene from a distant tree, and starts chasing after her to her terror.
At Mr. 3's house, Sanji realizes he needs to stop drinking tea and resume looking for Nami. However, as he heads out he hears a Den Den Mushi ringing inside a basket. He answers it, acting like a restaurant. The person on the other end is in no mood for his antics, and thinking Sanji is Mr. 3, asks for a report. Sanji asks who he is, to which the person replies that he is Mr. 0.

Brogy weeps over the loss of Dorry, causing a deluge of tears to spill onto the ground. However, Dorry then sits up, having only been knocked out by Brogy's strike. They guess this was likely due to their weapons having been severely dulled by their century-long clash. Brogy tearfully embraces Dorry, but after exchanging a few words, the two giants almost get into another fight, appalling Nami.
Meanwhile, after finding out that Mr. 0 is calling him, Sanji recalls Vivi's words and realizes that he is speaking to Sir Crocodile of the Seven Warlords of the Sea. Thinking Sanji is Mr. 3, Crocodile orders him to give him a status report. Sanji deduces that Mr. 3 was sent to go after Vivi and pretends to be Mr. 3, telling Crocodile that Vivi and the Straw Hats have been eliminated. Crocodile says that the Unluckies will arrive to give him a package containing an Eternal Pose to Arabasta. He tells Sanji to come to him there with Miss Goldenweek, as it is time for them to carry out the most crucial step of their plan. Right then, the Unluckies show up at Mr. 3's house, and upon realizing what had happened, they prepare to attack Sanji. He panics momentarily as he dodges Miss Friday's bullets and Mr. 13's blades, but he quickly defeats Mr. 13 by kicking him backwards into a wall. He then jumps up to Miss Friday, dodging her shots as he catches her head between his feet and slams her into the ground.
Hearing the fighting, Crocodile asks what is going on, and Sanji lies that one of the Straw Hats had unexpectedly survived but he finished them off. Crocodile dehydrates a flower he is holding as he expresses anger that Sanji's initial report was false. Sanji assures him that there is no longer any issue. Crocodile says that this will be the last time he contacts Mr. 3 through Den Den Mushi as he hangs up. Immediately afterwards, he tells Miss All Sunday to have Mr. 2 lie in wait between Little Garden and Arabasta to assassinate Mr. 3. As he examines the unconscious Unluckies, Sanji spots the Eternal Pose to Arabasta. Meanwhile, on Smoker's ship, some Marines report to Smoker that they have intercepted a peculiar call.

On a marine ship somewhere in the Grand Line Smoker asks an unknown marine to play back the intercepted message that they just recorded. He also demands that Tashigi hears it as well. Smoker has to shout at her to get her to listen. The message is played back and though it is poor reception a few important words can be heard, such as: princess Vivi, Straw Hat, Mr. 0, and orders. Tashigi then wonders if the message has something to do with Mr. 11, whom Smoker tricks into revealing that he is a part of it.
Smoker then recalls that Vivi is the princess of Arabasta and decides to head there. Meanwhile back at Little Garden, everyone is happy that they managed to defeat the Baroque Works members, Sanji then shows up and reveals that he just had a conversation with Mr. 0 and obtained an eternal log pose. Sanji and Zoro then try and determine who won their hunting contest which reminds the giants why they started fighting.
The Straw Hats then leave for Arabasta and the giants tell them no matter what, just go straight.

The Straw Hats set sail from Little Garden but are quickly confronted by an island devouring goldfish. Nami demands they maneuver away from the beast but recalling the giant's words, Usopp and Luffy continue to sail the ship straight as commanded-into the mouth of the beast. The giants, viewing this scene from Little Garden, remember the last time they met an island devouring sea beast. The giant duo, in unison, throw their weapons at the beast. They create a powerful attack that frees the Straw Hats from the beast's stomach.
Dorry and Brogy then recall how the 100-year duel had started with them. Many years ago, the two ruled Elbaf. When they both returned home with two large sea creatures, they were asked whose was larger. They immediately began an argument and spent years attempting to settle the wage on who caught the larger fish. The mountains that appeared on the island, once zoomed out, are revealed to be the bones of the sea beasts they had caught in year's past.
In the present, the giants began feeling nostalgic but they heard the eruption of a volcano signaling another duel time. Meanwhile back on the Going Merry, Usopp promises to one day visit Elbaf, while Nami asks Vivi to navigate for a while. Sanji serves lunch to everyone while Zoro continues to train as he feels he's grown weak from lack of practice.
Elsewhere in Arabasta, Mr. 2 prepares to leave for Little Garden and feels bothered having to waste his time.
On the Going Merry, Nami collapses with a fever.

Sanji continues to worry about Nami's health, while Vivi believes she has come down with a climate sickness. Vivi then asks if their is anyone on board with any medical knowledge and the crew points to Nami. Luffy suggests that some meat might make her better, but Sanji tells him that although a nutritious meal would do her some good it will not heal her of her sickness. Sanji then goes on to explain that he puts in more work into preparing Nami's food then any of the men, which does not bother Luffy as the meals are still excellent.
Vivi comments that Nami's fever has risen again to 40 degrees Celsius (104 Fahrenheit). Usopp suggests that they find a doctor for her in Arabasta. Vivi points out that it will take another week to get there. Luffy asks what it is like being sick, which none of the crew members know the answer as they have never become sick before. Vivi is shocked at this and lets them know that a 40 degree fever is very painful and that Nami could die. Everyone is shocked and immediately begins to panic and run around the room.
Nami then wakes up and tells Vivi about a newspaper. Vivi reads about the ongoing situation in Arabasta and how it does not look good. Nami then tells the crew that she is fine and goes to navigate the ship, which has been neglected as Zoro was in charge of navigation. She tells him he can't navigate by following a cloud and urges them to head portside, to the south.
Luffy then checks Nami's temperature with his hand and is burnt, but Nami once again brushes off his concern. Vivi then asks that the ship get to Arabasta as fast as possible-and that the fastest way possible is to get Nami medical treatment first.
A cyclone then suddenly forms right in the path they had avoided by Nami's instinct. Vivi is impressed with her ability to feel the weather.
A day later Zoro spots a man walking a top of the water.

Zoro asks the crew if it is possible for someone to stand on top of water. The crew is confused as it is physically impossible for someone to stand on water. Zoro then asks how they would explain why there is a man standing on water, which prompt the crew to look at what Zoro is pointing at. They all spot the strange man standing on water.
The man then makes a comment about the cold weather. The crew agree it is cold. Suddenly, the water at the man's feet erupts and a ship appears. Sanji, who has been taking care of Nami, rushes outside to see what has happened. He stops to light a cigarette and asks what happened. Luffy responds that they were ambushed. Sanji comments that that is obvious as they are surrounded by pirates with rifles.
The Captain of said pirates then wonders where there other crew members are, as they should have more than 4 members. He then asks them if they know how to get to Drum kingdom to which Sanji replies that they do not. The mysterious captain then starts eating the going merry much to the shock of the crew, and this angers Luffy who starts a fight and attacks the captain who eats him just as Vivi comes out to see what's going on. Luffy then finishes his attack and blows the captain away, who Vivi feels she has met before.

Luffy suggests dumping a bucket of water on Nami to cool her down, which angers Sanji and Vivi. Vivi suggests they put down anchor, as sailing without Nami's navigation experience would be too dangerous.
Later, Nami wakes up to find the crew asleep while Sanji is on lookout.
The next day, Usopp wonders about the pirates that they encountered yesterday. Sanji tells him to pay it no mind. They remember that the pirates left in a hurry after their Captain was flung into the ocean. They left a threat, but Sanji again brushes it off saying that they are just idiots.
Sanji then questions why it is still cold. Vivi explains that they must be near a winter island, and then explains the different type of islands. Suddenly, they spot land, much to the pleasure of the crew, unfortunately when they try to dock their ship they are stopped by the locals who do not trust them. The locals refuse even when they are informed of a sick crew member.
The locals attack the Straw Hats, and even shoot Vivi which angers the Straw Hats immensely. However, Vivi talks Luffy into calming his temper and to show humility. They both bow and ask the locals to send a doctor to them. This surprises the locals and their leader tells them that he will lead them to the island's only doctor, but warns them that she is a witch.

Dalton, the guard of the island, leads the Straw Hats toward his village. Zoro and Karoo stay behind to guard the Going Merry. The island seems to be in an important time of its history since strange things are hinted: it has no name, the villagers are making a police force, and an election is about to occur. But to the Straw Hats' misfortune, there is only one doctor-a 140 year old lady, Dr. Kureha-whom the villagers call a witch. She lives in a castle at the top of a steep mountain and only comes down to treat patients when she so desires. However, according to Dalton, she is very skillful at her practice.
With Nami's fever climbing, Luffy decides to climb the mountain instead of waiting for the doctor. Nami agrees and Luffy and Sanji depart with the sick girl on Luffy's back.
Dalton explains to Vivi and Usopp that their country has recently been attacked by a handful of pirates led by Blackbeard. However, in their misfortune, it allowed them to get rid of their king tyrant: Wapol!

Dalton is surprised to learn that the Straw Hats know about Wapol. Usopp responds that he tried to attack them a couple of days ago, and Vivi reveals that she met him a while ago at the council of kings. Vivi's comment prompts shock from Dalton as to her true identity. Vivi attempts to cover up her mistake and changes the subject.
Dalton then explains that Wapol was the king of the country but fled when pirates arrived, witch surprises Vivi as to how a king can be so uncaring towards his people.
Meanwhile, Luffy is carrying Nami when they are confronted by Lapins. While it is revealed that Kureha has just come down to a neighboring village and that Wapol has finally found drum kingdom. Elsewhere, Dr. Kureha is at a bar diagnosing a child, who she believes that he was on the verge of death but she treats him, and then demands an exceptionally large fee, which angers the father and the villagers but the boy thanks her and she collects her fee.

Dalton apologizes for assuming that Dr. Kureha would not be back so soon while they head for Cocoa Weed village.
Meanwhile, Sanji ad Luffy are faced with a pack of Lapins and Sanji makes Luffy swear not to fight so as not to injure Nami. Luffy evades the attacks and runs with the pack chasing them.
While this is happening, Wapol is arriving at Drum Kingdom and is about to return to his castle when he finds the Straw Hat's ship, which makes him go to Big Horn instead so that he may kill the Straw Hats. Meanwhile, at Cocoa Weed Dalton and co. are informed that Dr. Kureha has left already, and that Wapol has returned to Big Horn, which prompts Dalton to head back.

Wapol threatens the inhabitants of Bighorn. he demands they accept him as their king once more. When he learns from his crewmates that the Straw Hats are nearby, he swears to get revenge. His men spot his castle is intact and that Dr. Kureha is living in it. Wapol is surprised and he decides to take it back and to take his revenge.
However, his plan is halted by Dalton who has run towards his village. He delivers a critical hit Wapol. However, the former King has a highly skilled personal medical team, the Isshi-20. It is revealed that Wapol got rid of every doctor in Drum, beside the 20 best ones whom only works for him. Due to the medical notoriety of the town, when people could no longer get treatment due to the monopoly of medical services, the town was abandoned by the medical professionals.
This act of selfishness and the cowardice he has shown is unforgivable to Dalton. As he is about to attack Wapol again, Chess and Kuromarimo threaten they know him too well. They attack the citizens who had come to help Dalton. In order to protect the villagers, Dalton sacrifices himself and takes the arrows directly in his chest.
Meanwhile, the angry lapahn chase Luffy and Sanji. But, they are unable to catch them and act strangely by jumping on the ground. Soon, a giant avalanche begins to rush down the mountain, putting everyone in danger.

Usopp and Vivi and the villagers are fleeing from the avalanche.
Elsewhere, Luffy and Sanji try to find higher ground but are unable to escape the avalanche. Luffy grabs a tree and rides it like a sled as he grabs Sanji. They are confronted by more lapahns who throw trees at them, but Sanji kicks Luffy away while he takes the brunt of the attack and saves his friends. Luffy tries to grab Sanji's hand but only grabs his glove.
Meanwhile, the villagers are freaking out about the avalanche, as well as Wapol who flees on his pet.
Luffy dives into the snow to retrieve Sanji. After the avalanche has hit and the village is covered, Wapol eats his way out and blames the avalanche on the Straw Hats as an elaborate plot to attack him.
Luffy finds Sanji and begins to bring him back up the mountain. As he passes by a buried lapahn, he also pulls out the parent lapahn. The baby and adult lapahn are shocked that a human has helped them. Luffy is soon found by Wapol's men.

Wapol confronts Luffy, who ignores him, and is attacked for his lack of respect. However, Luffy cannot fight back due to the fact that he is carrying his critically-injured crew mates. Fortunately, he is helped by the lapahns he helped out earlier.
Luffy then arrives at the base of a nearly vertical cliff. He begins to climb the mountain wall while carrying Sanji and Nami on his back. Finally, after 3 hours of climbing, he reaches the top of the mountain right before he collapses.
Meanwhile, Wapol and his men have defeated all the lapahns. He then vows to gain revenge on Luffy.
At the mountain top, Luffy has finally arrived but passes out due to sheer exhaustion. As he is about to fall off the mountain, a mysterious figure reaches out to save him.

After the avalanche, Vivi and Usopp are still alive but lost. On their way, they accidentally bump into an almost naked Zoro who tells them he was performing training when the avalanche struck. Together they continue their journey and they realize they have returned to Bighorn. They learn from the villagers that Dalton is still buried by the avalanche, but that Wapol's men prevent the villagers from freeing him. Hearing that they are enemies, Zoro beats up one of the guards and everyone lauds him as a hero. However, he quickly reveals he just wanted their warm clothes and the fact that they were in the way was just a bonus.
Meanwhile at the castle, Nami wakes up. In her room is a strange animal that can walk and talk, who seems quite impersonal. When Dr. Kureha enters, she reveals that everyone is safe and that Nami narrowly escaped death. Would it have been 2 days more, she would have died from a disease named Casha. Moreover, even if she feels better, she still has to be treated for another 3 days. Nami finds that's too long and wants to leave.
Suddenly, Luffy and Sanji burst into the room, pursuing Chopper in order to eat him. When asked about this strange animal, Doctorine reveals that it is a reindeer who accidentally ate the Hito Hito no Mi, hence becoming a reindeer able to talk and transform himself into a human.

Luffy asks Dr. Kureha to join the Straw Hats, however she rejects his offer. When Chopper appears inside Nami's bedroom, he is immediately hunted by Sanji and Luffy who want to cook him, however, they are chased by Kureha who does not want to lose her assistant.
Chopper loses Luffy and Sanji and returns to Nami's room to take care of her. When she saw that he is interested in pirates, Nami asks him to join their crew, but Chopper declines, saying that he is a reindeer and cannot be involved with humans. Their conversation is suddenly interrupted by the appearance of Luffy and Sanji, and Chopper quickly flees.
Kureha then enters the room. She heard Nami and Chopper's discussion and explains to Nami that she has no objection if Chopper goes with them. However, it will be difficult to convince him (or earn his trust for that matter), as Chopper has been horribly scarred throughout his life, something which Kureha claims not even a doctor can fix. Dr. Kureha reveals that Chopper has always been alone, even more since he ate the Hito Hito no Mi, rejected by both humans and reindeer. When Chopper was still very young, his whole herd, even his own parents, shunned him all because of his blue nose. When he ate the Hito Hito no Mi, he became even more of an outcast and chased him away. Realising he was able to take on a human form, he tried socialising with the local humans, which ended disastrously as they mistook for a monster (he did not look entirely human, despite his abilities, and his blue nose made him stand out). Only one man was able to talk to him: Dr. Hiriluk.
During their hunt, Luffy and Sanji realise that the castle is full of snow due to the entrance, which has been left open. When they are about to close the door, Chopper prevents them from doing so by turning into his Heavy Point form. Sanji and Luffy realise the reason for the door being open-a nest of baby birds is on the top of the door-as well as the fact that Chopper is not really a common reindeer.

In Bighorn, Zoro gets rid of Wapol's guards easily, which allows the villagers to search for Dalton, who was heavily injured before being buried into the avalanche. After some searching, he is found but is in a critical state.
At the castle, Chopper has smelled Wapol's return. The former king has decided to take his former castle back, but Doctorine and Chopper will not hand it back to Wapol. The castle, as shown by the pirate flag on its roof, is now the grave of Dr. Hiriluk.
6 years ago, Wapol banned every doctor from Drum's kingdom. The only ones allowed to stay were the Isshi-20. However, two doctors resisted against the tyrant: Dr. Kureha and Dr. Hiriluk. However, the skills of Hiriluk were highly questionable, and the villagers fear his treatments more than Wapol, hence his surname of 'Fake Doctor'.
One day, after having escaped the kingdom guards, Hiriluk bumps into a wounded creature. Hunted by everyone so far, he does not trust the charlatan and beats him. However, Hiriluk stands up, and to prove his true feelings, stands naked and defenseless in front of him. Later, Chopper wakes up and his injuries had been cured by the doctor. He cannot retain his tears as he had finally been accepted by someone.

Three days after rescuing him, Hiriluk found out the reindeer could talk. He wondered why he had been silent, and the reindeer said that talking would make the doctor hate him, since he was shot the last time he talked. Hiriluk saw no issue with the reindeer talking, and the two of them were forced to evacuate outside when one of Hiriluk's chemical containers exploded. Hiriluk was happy to see that the reindeer was fine after the explosion, and named him Tony Tony Chopper for his strong horns that could bring down a tree. Chopper liked the name.
As Wapol rode down the mountain wondering what new laws he would make, Royal Army Commander Dalton met with Chess and Kuromarimo, who noted he was acting weird since coming back from the global conference Levely. Dalton wondered if their kingdom would be the same with a growing inequality between the royals and the people, but Chess and Kuromarimo failed to see an issue. They claimed that Wapol's stricter method of ruling was for the good of the country, but Dalton told them about one girl he had met at the Levely. In Mary Geoise where it was held, King Thalassa Lucas had held up a picture of the Revolutionary Dragon, warning that he would be a great danger to the world in five to six years. Wapol blew him off, failing to see any danger to his kingdom. King Nefertari Cobra of Arabasta reprimanded Wapol for his selfishness, and after the meeting, Wapol struck his young daughter Vivi under the guise of an accidental bump. Igaram became enraged, but Vivi stopped him, claiming responsibility for the altercation. Dalton was greatly impressed with the young princess' poise in such a volatile event, and overheard in shame from around the corner as Vivi cried when alone with Igaram. Back on Drum Island, however, Chess and Kuromarimo thought little of this action, telling Dalton not to mix emotion with policies.
As Hiriluk experimented with chemicals, he told Chopper not to hate the people on the island for casting them out, saying they had a sickness in their hearts. He told Chopper about a thief from the far west, who went around looking for a cure for his heart ailment. Doctors could not provide a cure, so he went wandering around until he came to a mountain. There, he saw beautiful cherry blossoms, and a doctor later found that his ailment was completely cured. Hiriluk believed that there was no disease that could not be cured, and declared that he would stand with his Jolly Roger to fight every disease that threatened the people in the country. Chopper was intrigued by the Jolly Roger, and Hiriluk said it was a symbol of faith, encouraging him to some day get out to other parts of the world and see how small his problem really was. Hiriluk told Chopper to get back home to keep recovering while he treated patients, but Chopper wanted to assist him. They overheard that a patient needed medicine from a mushroom, but were promptly chased away after trying to give him lizard eyes. Hiriluk and Chopper were run off by everyone they tried to help, and one time the former kicked the latter into the mob to serve as a decoy. After almost dying, Chopper returned to Hiriluk's base. He was angry at the doctor, but Hiriluk insisted that Chopper should have never followed him on his missions. However, he gave Chopper a pink top hat as an apology, which caused the reindeer to tear up. Hiriluk and Chopper did everything together for a year, until Chopper was finally cured. Hiriluk had no intention of taking care of him, and Chopper pleaded to stay with the doctor, but Hiriluk shot at him and told him to never come back again. As Chopper ran off, Hiriluk sobbed and hoped the reindeer would forgive him.

Dr. Hiriluk learns from Dr. Kureha what he knows already: he is on the verge of death. Infected by a strong bacteria, he will not live more than three or four days. However, that is not sufficient to complete the research he has made during the last 30 years-a cure for any disease. He begs Kureha to give him more time so that he can complete the Cherry blossom miracle. Kureha mocks him and tells him that his one time cure that he believe to help him as a thief will not cure Drum Island, revealing the man in the story was actually Hiriluk himself.
While Dr. Kureha argues with Hiriluk, she notices Chopper is spying on them from the window. Chopper, understanding that Hiriluk chased him only so that he does not see his only friend die, started a journey to help the sick doctor.
After a week of hard struggles, he returns to the fake doctor's lab with an Amiudake mushroom in his hand. While he gave the mushroom to Hiriluk, Chopper asks him to live and to teach him how to become a doctor.

After eating the Amiudake soup, Hiriluk feels much stronger. But while he was eating the medicine, a reaction happened in his lab. That was the reaction he was researching since so long ago. In joy after this miracle, he departs, suddenly telling Chopper to rest. He heads toward Dr. Kureha's house and begs her to complete two things, pretending he has not enough time to fulfill them: to continue his research on the Sakura powder and to teach Chopper medical knowledge so that he can become a good doctor. Kureha is angered by the favors and the request for them to be completed for free. She kicks Hiriluk out.
In town, people are desperate. The Isshi-20 are sick and there are no more doctors left to help them, the reasons for Hiriluk to hurry back to town. He is determined to cure the sick doctors and rushes toward the castle, despite the fact he is blocked by Wapol's soldiers.
Meanwhile, Kureha is worried because she does not understand why Hiriluk is in such hurry while he has still 2 weeks to live. When she rushes into his house, she encounters Chopper, who claims that the doctor is much better thanks to his mushroom soup. The old woman is in shock, as the mushroom is poisonous and Hiriluk has only one hour left before he dies. Chopper does not understand and he shows the pirate sign that Hiriluk told him was a symbol of a magic cure next to the mushroom picture he found in a book. Kureha tells the distraught reindeer that the skull in the book means poison and there is no cure for all diseases. She further explains that good intentions are not enough to help people and he can do nothing without learning medical knowledge and the skills to use them. Chopper then starts wailing uncontrollably because of his foolishness as Kureha pities him. Hiriluk has reached the castle so that he could die there.

Dr. Hiriluk arrives at the castle in order to cure the Isshi-20 only for Wapol to reveal that it was a trap in order to capture the rebellious doctor. While Wapol laughs at and taunts the doctor, Dalton questions why the doctor came to such an obvious trap. Chess and Kuromarimo laugh alongside their king while Wapol's troops aim at the doctor. Instead of breaking down, Hiriluk drops to his knees, thankful that the Isshi-20 are fine. Dalton is extremely shocked. Hiriluk refuses to be shot by the king's soldiers, saying that he will die soon.
Chopper is shown running in an attempt to stop Hiriluk, who is making a speech about his death, stating that he will only die when he is forgotten. He begins to pour himself a drink when he notices that Dalton is crying. He shares the fake doctor's pain for this sick country. Hiriluk explains that he has lived happily and that his task is accomplished: the country will be cured, by those who remember him if not by him. He then downs the drink, which was a dangerously explosive substance, committing suicide.
Chopper arrives to find Hiriluk's hat float to the ground, the only remaining part of the deceased doctor. Wapol laughs at the doctor's death, angering Chopper and causing the reindeer to charge. While he is targeted by the soldiers who see him as a monster, Dalton interposes and begs him to depart. Since he is too weak to even defend himself, Dalton says to Chopper not to end up as another sacrifice for this country. Annoyed by Dalton's reaction who let the 'monster' escape despite his orders to kill him and his clear defiance towards him, Wapol threatens the guard chief of what would happen if he made him "really annoyed" as the two prepare to fight.
Meanwhile, Chopper has reached Dr. Kureha's house, raising Hiriluk's flag. He asks her to help him become a doctor who will be able to cure every disease in the world.
Back at the castle, Wapol has defeated Dalton and tries to negotiate with the guard chief. Dalton denies the request, stating that he will not stop until peace has returned to the country. Dalton only laughs and says that he is the most powerful person.
The flashback ends, returning to a scene where Luffy punches Wapol in the face.

Surprised that Luffy dares to attack the King of Drum, Chess and Kuromarimo help their chief recover from the punch he just took. Sanji helps Luffy to realize to identify their opponents asks him how he is not cold in his shorts and vest. After a pause, Luffy suddenly realizes both of his mistakes and the crew is shocked at Luffy's slow response time. Luffy runs back into the castle and searches for a jacket in Nami's room.
Wapol is infuriated by the disrespectful behavior of his former subjects. Dr. Kureha and Chopper refuse to let him enter, claiming it has become Dr. Hiriluk grave and that no one will be allowed to take out the quack doctor's flag. To protect his master's place, Chopper transforms into his human form. The trio then realize that he is the monster who attacked them in the past.
Kuromarimo starts to attack Dr. Kureha with an electrostatic ball made of his own hair. Sanji is able to stop the Eleki-Marimo balls by kicking them but finds them stuck to his body suddenly and is unable to kick them off. Sanji asks Chopper for help but suddenly becomes the target for Chess' fire arrows. Chopper takes opportunity of them targeting Sanji by trying to punch Chess. Unfortunately, he is stopped by Wapol who starts to eat the reindeer.
Luckily, Luffy has come back, wearing Nami's jacket. Thanks to Sanji's powerful kick, Luffy grabs a hold of his leg and is launched at Wapol, landing a punch to Wapol's stomach and causes him to spit out Chopper.

In Bighorn, the Isshi-20 decide to betray Wapol, whom they have followed by fear and rescue Dalton. Usopp tells Vivi that they should not worry about Luffy and Sanji as they can take care of themselves. When Dalton decides to fight against his former king, whereas he is barely able to stand up, Usopp, who was afraid of climbing the mountain a few seconds before, proposes to carry Dalton on his back as he is invigorated by their warrior's spirit.
Meanwhile in front of the castle, Wapol demonstrates the extent of his Baku Baku no Mi powers by transforming into a living canon house. Indeed, he has the ability to transform into everything he has eaten and admit to eating canons and explosives to create his current structure. He even eats Chess and Kuromarimo and fuses them into a new adversary, Chessmarimo.
To demonstrate his desire to take back his castle, Wapol shoots at the symbol of his adversaries: Dr. Hiriluk's flag. Chopper is furious and run towards Wapol, however, by respect to his friend's wishes, he does not attack him. However, Wapol does not hesitate and shoots the naive reindeer. Meanwhile, Luffy has reached the castle roof in order to restore the pirate flag on top of the castle spire.

In his determination, Usopp tries to carry Dalton up to the castle, even though Dalton says that he will not be able to. Usopp states that he can do it, and that since Dalton wants to fight for his country, he will not let him down. Zoro, however, merely picks up Dalton and easily starts to carry him, much to Usopp's chagrin. Usopp is frustrated that Zoro is stealing the glory, but the villagers state that it will take them 30 minutes to fix up a rope for a lift up the mountain, which would be faster. One of the villagers states that there are no ropes left to use, but another one states that they found a white rope tied to a tree near Gyasta, which was near where Dr. Kureha last visited.
On top of the mountain, Wapol wonders about the true meaning of the pirate flag and states that it is a stupid decoration for pirates. Luffy insults him, saying that the flag is not something that you can underestimate. Wapol becomes infuriated and states that since he is the king, he does not have to bow down to a flag, and moves to destroy the flag along with Luffy. Wapol fires a cannonball at the flag, but Luffy takes the hit, stating that the flag is a symbol of faith and that it will never be broken. Chessmarimo is amazed, and Luffy states that although he does not know who the flag belongs to, it is a symbol of life that no one should play around with its usage.
Luffy yells that people like Wapol have no right to destroy the flag and laughs about it, making Chopper remember Dr. Hiriluk's description of pirates being great. Luffy tells Chopper that he is going to beat up Wapol and his troops, and asks Chopper what he is going to do. Wapol yells that if they want to protect the flag, they will both die together with it, prompting Sanji to rush towards Wapol. However, Dr. Kureha states that Sanji's spine is dislocated and knocks him to the ground, preventing him from fighting. Wapol laughs, saying he will destroy them all, but has to have Chessmarimo block a blow from an infuriated Chopper. Luffy tells Chopper to beat them up, and plants the flag in the top of the tower as Sanji lays injured in the snow.
Back on the ground, Chessmarimo states that Chopper will not be allowed to lay a finger on Wapol, stating that Chopper is a strange creature who was rumored to be a snow monster. He continues, saying that Chopper has no friends and is still defending the kingdom, but Chopper states that as long as Hiriluk's flag is there, then he will still fight. Luffy then shoots down from the mountain, saying that he is Chopper's friend, and tells Chopper to take care of Chessmarimo while Luffy fights Wapol. Chopper states that he is not confused anymore, while Dr. Kureha prevents Sanji from getting up, saying that even she cannot stop Chopper when he is serious. Chopper, meanwhile states that his name was given to him by the greatest doctor in the world, and that while Hiriluk forgave them, he will not let them pass for laughing at Hiriluk's death. Chessmarimo states that they will not forgive Chopper, who unveils a small, black Rumble Ball.

Chopper is determined to defend the honor of the pirate flag. To defeat Chessmarimo, he uses a Rumble Ball, a drug which will increase his power for 3 minutes. Chessmarimo mocks Chopper as he watches the reindeer's 3 Zoan's transformations. He laughs that none of the modes are enough to defeat him. However, he is surprised when Chopper is able to avoid is attacks, thanks to two additional transformations. Chopper informs him that the Rumble Ball allows him to have four supplementary combinations beside the standard three, making a total of seven transformations.
Also, when in Brain Point, Chopper is able to scan his opponent to detect weaknesses. He quickly discovers that Chessmarimo's chin is his weak point and delivers a powerful kick in the chin and knocks him out.
However, during the fight, distracted by the reindeer's demonstration, Luffy did not notice that Wapol had escaped.

While Chopper beats Chessmarimo, Wapol disappears into the castle without Luffy noticing. There he encounters Nami, who tries to escape Doctorine's orders. Realizing she is part of Luffy's crew, Wapol attacks her but she is saved by Luffy.
Wapol enters the castle in order to eat all the weapons from the weapon storage room and to transform himself into a living weapon, however, his plan fails deplorably when he realizes he has lost the key. Nami reveals she had stolen the key from him when they had bumped into each other earlier. She had thought it was the key to the treasure room. Not giving up, Wapol climbs to a room where he can find his last trump card: the Royal Drum Crown 7-Shot Bliking Cannon. However, he is deceived once again, since the cannon has been invaded by Chopper's bird friends. With no other tricks in his pocket, he has no other choice but to face Luffy.

The villagers have revealed a way to get to the castle from Dr. Kureha's old house. They are aboard the tram with injured Dalton. He remembers how he stands up against the king saying how useless he is since he does not care about the people. He calls the king a fool, making him mad. The king severely beats Dalton to the brink of death.
Meanwhile, the fight between Luffy and Wapol rages on with Wapol threatening the wrath of the world government if anything happens to him. Luffy responds that he does not care and grabs Wapols face ready to attack. Wapol tries to eat his hand but Luffy just stretches. Wapol then spits up a cannon and fires at Luffy, while Dalton wonders about government. Luffy then appears unscathed from the cannon and still holds onto Wapol.
It switches back to Dalton. He tells the villagers to stand clear of the castle. He has dynamite and he plans on blowing it up. Luffy grabs Wapol and spins him around with his arms. He then kicks him while Wapol is still spinning sending him flying through the roof. He lands back onto the roof and sees Choppers pirate flag. He reaches to take it down but Luffy tells him he has no right touching a sacred pirate flag. Luffy then punches him and sends him flying out of sight.
All the villagers see that Wapol has been beaten and they start rejoicing. Chopper's faith in pirates surges as he sees that the straw hat pirates are good people.

Thanks to the lift, everybody is able to join the castle. Understanding the situation, Dalton thanks Luffy for helping his country. Dr. Kureha asks that the wounded people are put into the castle, including Nami and Sanji who are desperately trying to hide from her.
Usopp, when he sees Chopper. He calls out loud that he is a monster and Chopper flees from the persecution he is used to from being different. Luffy becomes angry since he wanted to present him as the new crew member. Luffy tries to run after him and the poor reindeer becomes even more afraid.
In the castle, Kureha has taken care of Dalton, Sanji and Nami. She asks the guard chief if he knows where the key is to the weapon room. Nami, who stole the key from Wapol previously, understands that she can make profit of this key and gives it to the doctor. As a reward, she will not have to pay for the treatment and Kureha will not oppose to their departure.
When the night comes, Luffy is still looking for Chopper, as to ask him to join the crew. When Chopper says that he would like to but he cannot because he is a monster, Luffy yells at him they do not care.

The Straw Hat Pirates are ready to depart, they are only waiting for Chopper and Dr. Kureha to say good-bye. But when Chopper reveals to Kureha that he has decided to become a pirate, she does not accept it. Enraged by what she considers a selfish behavior after everything she has done for the young reindeer, she starts to chase him in order to force him to stay, praying him to not believe in Hiriluk's hopeless dreams. Chopper with no other choice but to run away, mounts Dr. Kureha's sled and rushes toward the Straw Hats who have no other choice than jump in it for a hasty departure.
Going down by the Drum Ropeway, Chopper has sad feelings, he does not know if he should trust Dr. Kureha or believe in Hiriluk who gave him hope with his researches and pushed him to discover the world.
At the castle, Dr. Kureha reveals her true feelings to Dalton, she hates sad goodbyes and grants to Chopper a nice farewell. The preparations she asked to the villagers are now completed, and she asks them to fire the cannon which are pointing toward the sky. The noise of the canons wakes up the entire island who first worried for a possible return of Wapol. They discover a marvelous sight. The cannons, filled with Dr. Hiriluk's pink powder, color the snow and cover the island with the miracle Sakura aura. Chopper, in tears, watches the show fall with his new friends. His doubts have vanished and he is thankful for the two doctors that have helped him.

Kureha and Dalton are sitting under the sakura snow, now full of hope about the future of their country when a villager appears carrying Luffy's bounty poster. Understanding their friend has encountered some dangerous people, Kureha makes mysterious remarks about Gol D. Roger and the Will of D. When asked about where the poster came from, the villager replies that a few days ago, a stranger appeared, looking for the Blackbeard Pirates who destroyed the island. When the stranger called Ace learned that they have already left, he gave Luffy's poster to the villagers so that, in case he reaches Drum, they can tell Luffy he would wait for him in Arabasta for 10 days.
Onboard the Going Merry, Chopper is full of nostalgia and does not rejoice with the others, who are having a sakura party. However, once Nami gives him his medicine bag, which he had no time to prepare during his hasty departure, he understands that Kureha did it for him, secretly agreeing with his departure. This revelation changes his mood and he quickly learns the crew's customs who happily celebrate the new Straw Hats' doctor.
Meanwhile in Little Garden, an okama named Mr. 2 is searching for Mr. 3 in order to accomplish Crocodile's orders to kill him, but Mr. 3 is nowhere to be found.

In Arabasta, the Warlord Crocodile is seen as a hero. Indeed we see him helping in the fight against pirates and be the subject of adoration by the people of Arabasta. Even Vivi's father king Cobra thanks him for his help.
Back on the Going Merry, Vivi explains these facts to the others. Arabasta people cannot imagine that the person who they see as a hero, is the one that is currently ruining their country. As a consequence, they have to stop the rebellion and then get rid of Baroque Works. When asked by Usopp about how the organization works, Vivi tells them of the pyramidal hierarchy and the main officer agents. But for Crocodile to take over Arabasta means that all the top agents are together somewhere in Vivi's country.

Five days after leaving Drum Island, the stock of food is shrinking. While crossing a smoke steam made by undersea volcanoes, Luffy and Usopp find an okama dressed like a swan. After saving him from drowning, he reveals that he ate a Devil Fruit. Making a show with his ability to imitate anybody he touches, the Okama strikes up an immediate friendship with the trio of Usopp, Chopper and Luffy. However, their encounter is cut short when the Okama's crew arrives to retrieve their captain. Leaving the Merry, he makes a promise of eternal friendship but, as his men greet him, his name is revealed to be Mr. 2 Bon Kurei. Understanding that they have met with an enemy, now able to usurp their identity, the Straw Hats decide to take countermeasure.

After days of privation, the crew are finally reaching Arabasta. Before approaching, they prepare a countermeasure against Mr. 2's power by wearing a sign of friendship on their arm. In the port of Nanohana in Arabasta, a group of people are intrigued by an unconscious guy in a restaurant. This strange guy who fell asleep while eating is no other than Portgas D. Ace, Whitebeard's second division commander. This is revealed by an old adversary: Smoker, who also appears to be in town in the search for the Straw Hat Pirates. Ace is looking for his little brother.

The crew is waiting for Luffy to get back, when they spot Mr. 3's ship. Meanwhile, Smoker confronts Ace and the spectators are astonished that a commander of the Whitebeard Pirates is there, while Luffy smells food from the restaurant, Smoker prepares to attack Ace when Luffy rockets into the room. Luffy then orders food while Ace apologizes for the mess and recognizes Luffy, but is pushed down by Smoker who recognizes him as well, but is annoyed by Luffy's lack of interest and rudeness. Luffy then recognizes Smoker and runs away while Ace and Smoker chase after him. Smoker warns Tashigi of Luffy, who then tries to stop Luffy but is unable to, and Smoker is forced to go after him alone. Meanwhile Vivi and Nami are trying out different perfumes to the pleasure of Sanji but to the horror of Chopper. Vivi then explains that they need to get to Yuba so that she may talk with Koza the leader of the rebellion. Suddenly, Luffy appears being chased by marines, including Smoker who attacks him until he is stopped by Ace, whom Luffy recognizes.

The Baroque Works association has some strange rules. In order to reach the envied agent seats, its members do not hesitate to kill each other. Mr. 11, who had been arrested by the Marines, learns this at the cost of his life.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats have escaped the Marines, thanks to Ace, and are heading back to the Going Merry, intending to sail the ship up the river, then continue on to the desert. Prior to departing, Vivi entrusts Karoo with an important task: to carry a letter detailing the situation and explaining what she and Igaram have discovered in regards to the Baroque Works conspiracy to her father, Cobra, in Alubarna, in order to give him hope.
On board of the Merry, Luffy tells his friends about Ace. He is his elder brother by three years, and is a pirate as well. Luffy also expresses his surprise that Ace has eaten a Devil's Fruit - the Mera Mera no Mi. Suddenly, Ace appears on board. He proposes that Luffy and his crew join the Whitebeard Pirates, an offer Luffy flatly denies. Ace tells Luffy of his admiration for Whitebeard, and his desire to see him become the Pirate King, to which Luffy replies that he will just have to fight him for the title.
In Nanohana, Smoker appears concerned: not only because Ace's intervention prevented him from apprehending Luffy, but also because he recognized the princess of Arabasta among the Straw Hat Pirates. He expresses his contempt for the Warlord, telling Tashigi that tigers never change their stripes - once a pirate, always a pirate.
Back on the Going Merry, Ace hands Luffy a strange piece of paper, which he says will help them see each other again, and thanks Luffy's crewmates for taking care of his younger sibling before returning to his ship. Ace is currently chasing after a pirate named Blackbeard, his former subordinate, who committed the unforgivable crime of killing a crewmate. As the boats of the Baroque Agents Billions close in, the members of the Straw Hat crew express their surprise and admiration at the two brothers' relationship. Ace then single-handedly takes down the many Billions ships, urging his brother to meet him, 'at the top'.

After Ace's departure, the Straw Hat Pirates head to Yuba. They ask Luffy about the piece of paper Ace gave to him, which has nothing written on it. Despite that, Luffy wants to hold on to it because Ace wanted him to, so Nami sews the paper to the underside of Luffy's hat for safekeeping. The Straw Hats change into clothes that will protect them from the burning temperatures, which Vivi warns Luffy about. They arrive at the mouth of the Sandora River, and Vivi explains the way they will travel to Yuba with a map she sketched. They will exit the river and head inland, across from the town of Erumalu, where they will lay anchor. Afterwards, they will travel across the desert to the Yuba Oasis, so Vivi can meet the Rebel leader to explain the situation. Vivi is convinced that they can stop Baroque Works and save her country.
Meanwhile Crocodile and Miss All Sunday are finalizing their plan, which begins in two days at 7 o'clock AM. Crocodile asks Miss All Sunday about the necessary preparations and Miss All Sunday answers reassuringly, telling him about the 150 Billions agents waiting at Nanohana. She also mentions Mr. 2 Bon Kurei's failure in finding and taking care of Mr. 3, much to Crocodile's annoyance. Miss All Sunday also reveals that the remaining Officer Agents are set to meet at Spiders Cafe that night at 8.
Spiders Cafe is revealed to be the Baroque Works Arabasta Headquarters. Inside, a woman is reading a magazine while listening to a vinyl record. Immediately after, Mr. 4 and Miss Merry Christmas come into the Cafe with a ruckus. Miss Merry Christmas blames Mr. 4 for the long trip, which caused her hips to ache, and Mr. 4 apologizes very slowly. Miss Merry Christmas greets the woman, Paula, the owner of the Cafe, and asks her how business is. She notes how there isn't anybody else in the Cafe, and Paula explains that the Cafe is reserved for the Officer Agents that night. Paula mentions how she hasn't seen the Mr. 4 team in a while, and offers an orange pekoe tea to Miss Merry Christmas and an apple tea to Mr. 4. Miss Merry Christmas urges Paula to hurry with the drinks and impatiently bangs on the counter. Paula then asks about their work. Miss Merry Christmas snaps at her, saying work is dangerous as always, so Paula apologizes.
Suddenly, singing is heard in the Cafe despite the music being played being a sonata. Outside, Mr. 2 Bon Kurei and his subordinate Billions dance towards the Spiders Cafe while singing about the okama Way. Mr. 2 Bon Kurei enters the building on tip-toe, causing Paula to ask if Mr. 2 is an idiot. Mr. 2 laughs it off saying he's an okama and asks Paula for an octofait, octopus parfait, which Paula doesn't serve. Mr. 2 then dismisses his billion subordinates, reminding them not to slack off on their dance practice. Meanwhile, Miss Merry Christmas is getting a massage from Mr. 4, and Mr. 2 observes that "the fat old hag" is also attending. He then asks Paula about the Mr. 1 pair, whom he has never met. Though he has heard rumors of Mr. 1's intimidating personality, they don't bother Mr. 2. From afar, it is revealed Mr. 3 is spying on the gathering through a window.

The Straw Hat Pirates crosss the Sandora River and lands near a town. They then meet a colony of kung-fu dugongs. Vivi explains her friends that the animals normally live in sea water, but because of the current drought, the river has become salty. The same happened to the ghost town they enter. Erumalu was once called a green town, but three years without a drop of rain took the best of its inhabitants and nowadays, Erumalu is nothing but ruins. Vivi then tells them that the only town which did not suffer of lack of water was Alubarna, the capital of Arabasta and the king's residence.
However, two years ago, an "accident" happened in Nanohana. A ship cargo is dropped, revealing its content: a huge amount of Dance Powder. The people in charge of the cargo looked terrified and mention that the powder was for the king. The Dance Powder is a forbidden material which has the power to generate rainfall but at the expense of the clouds in the surrounding area. After the scandal, it rained nowhere besides near the king's palace. People started to become suspicious of Vivi's father, unaware that it is part of the mischievous plan brought by Crocodile. Vivi is determined to not let him continue making her people suffer, and all the Straw Hats are ready to help her.

After walking all day in the desert under the sun, the Straw Hats are exhausted, Luffy then drinks some water which upsets Usopp, and the two get into an argument. Finally the Straw Hats take a break, only to have their stuff stolen by thieving birds, Luffy then goes off to chase the birds but encounters a giant lizard. Fortunately it is no match for the straw hats and they kill it, and eat it, they also find a camel whom they name Matsuge. Luffy then starts to hallucinate and after a while falls asleep, forcing the crew to carry him until he wake up, and by night they have reached Yuba, unfortunately Vivi finds something wrong with the town.

The Straw Hat Pirates enters Yuba after it was hit by a sandstorm. Nobody is here except, Toto, digging in the sand. When Vivi ask him about the rebels, the old man reveals to them that, due to the drought Yuba faced for three years, the rebels had moved to Katorea, an oasis close to Nanohana, the city they have left before going to Yuba.
When Luffy says Vivi's name, the old man starts to cry, asking the princess if she remembers him. Vivi, in shock, realizes who he is and starts to remember their first encounter.
Eleven years ago, a young kid named Koza asked King Cobra to stop the drought in his village because the villagers were suffering. When Cobra told him it is out of his power, Koza's father, Toto appeared, ashamed by his son's rudeness and begs the king to forgive them. Koza, being too proud to beg the king for forgiveness, rushed out of the room. Cobra was moved by the kid's care for his fellow villagers and decides to allow them to live in Alubarna temporarily until they can decide on what to do.
After confronting the king, Koza, in tears, ran out and encountered young Vivi, who called him a crybaby. This is the start of a fight between the two kids, which rapidly transformed into a friendship. Vivi became the sub-leader of the Suna Suna Clan, just under Koza. But one day, when Vivi was searching for her leader, she bumped into two dangerous men.

The Suna Suna Clan attacks the bandits while Vivi runs away, later Igaram finds the members of the suna suna clan lying around the sand, injured, he asks what happened to which a member tells him, and also tells him that Vivi ran to the ruins and was chased by a bandit who was chased by Koza. The leader of the bandits manages to find Vivi but is confronted by Koza, who stands up to him, and beats him but is stabbed in the process, the other bandits arrive but are stopped by the king and Igaram. Koza is then rushed to the hospital where he is treated, the next day he informs Vivi that he and his dad are going to start new town, by the name of Yuba. It is then revealed that the rebels plan to strike the capitol in one big invasion and take over the government, it is also revealed that Koza is the leader of the rebellion.

Remembering when Mr. Toto left Yuba, Vivi offers him a tissue and promises to stop the rebellion, the crew then decides to stay the night while Mr. Toto, and Luffy continue to dig for water. Meanwhile, the top brass of Baroque Works meet up, but are awaiting for Mr. 0, suddenly Miss All Sunday shows up and reveals that they are in Rain Dinners, a casino owned by Crocodile. It is also revealed that the leader is Crocodile himself and that he has been there the whole time, which surprises all the members, he then explains his "Utopia" plan. The next day, the Straw Hats are preparing to leave Yuba, and Mr. Toto gives them some water for their journey, but Luffy suddenly decides to quit.

An old face interrupts Baroque Works meeting. It is no other than Mr. 3, who snuck in after the other members from Spiders Cafe. He came to be given another chance to defeat the Straw Hats. Crocodile is surprised by this revelation since, after the call from Little Garden, he assumed all of the Straw Hat Pirates and Vivi were dead as he was not aware that it was Sanji who answered the call and lied to him. Mr. 2 confirms that the Straw Hat Pirates and Vivi are alive since he met them on the way to Arabasta. With the help of his power, they are able to make pictures of the Straw Hats (omitting Sanji), and start to take counter measures so that they can prevent Vivi from meeting with the rebel leader, Koza. Disappointed with Mr. 3, instead of giving him a second chance, Crocodile dries him up and feeds him to his Bananawani.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Vivi's argument is intensifying. Luffy finds her naive in wishing for no one to die. Upset, Vivi and Luffy start a fight until Luffy reveals his true intention: he wants Vivi to risk the life of her friends with her so that he can beat Crocodile, who is responsible for this situation.

Vivi shows the Straw Hat Pirates a map to Rainbase, where Crocodile resides. She says it will take a day to get there from Yuba, and that it is a gambling town, which excites Nami. They are interrupted by Luffy and Usopp fighting over their water, with Luffy refusing to let Toto's hard-earned water be consumed right away. The group then sets off for Rainbase. As they walk, Vivi thanks Luffy for encouraging her to set off on this course of action, and Luffy demands that he be fed in return after he beats Crocodile, which Vivi happily agrees to do.
In Katorea, a young shoe shiner named Kappa begs Koza to let him join the rebel army, but Koza refuses. He has Farafra show Kappa his missing forearm, and asks Kappa if he wants to see the hospital and graveyard. Kappa responds that he is not afraid of any of that, and badly wants to fight against the king because of his sick friend in a town near Erumalu that will soon dry up as well. However, Koza says that Kappa's goals are the opposite of the army's, as none of them want to fight, but have been forced into doing so. He then shouts at the boy to go home. Later, a rebel asks Koza if anything is wrong, as it is not like him to shout at a kid. Koza replies that he was exactly like Kappa years ago, and it made him sick. He asks about the weapons they have obtained, and hears that the effort was not extremely successful due to the royal army preventing them from getting to the warehouse. Koza tells them to notify the rebels in all the towns that once all the weapons are ready, they will begin their attack on Alubarna.
In the Alubarna Palace, Nefertari Cobra rejects Pell and Chaka's request to initiate a go-ahead attack on the rebel army, saying that taking action against them without understanding the cause of the unrest would tear the country apart. He says their real enemy is the figure who is responsible for the Dance Powder, and Chaka replies that it may be too late for the country before they can find that person, but Cobra refuses to relent. Pell and Chaka later sit together, and Pell remarks that they will soon be unable to keep their soldiers in line. He wishes Igaram were here, but Chaka is confident that he and Vivi are working to help the country. A messenger then comes and tells them that Karoo has arrived. As Karoo consumes water after his long journey, Cobra, Pell, and Chaka read Vivi's letter and find out that Crocodile is behind the country's unrest, as well as about Igaram's death. Chaka notices the bandages on Karoo's wing and asks if he is injured, but Karoo refuses to let him examine it. Cobra then orders Chaka to prepare a military campaign to attack Rainbase and Crocodile. However, Pell warns against this, saying Rainbase is too far for their forces to reach covertly and that attacking a public hero like Crocodile would only incur more hatred and rebellion against them. However, Cobra does not care what becomes of them, saying that the people would rebuild the country if Crocodile fell, while fighting against the rebels would do nothing but help the Warlord. He orders Chaka to gather his officers and Pell to scout out the enemy's location, saying their forces will depart tomorrow morning. 17 hours remain until Baroque Works' Operation Utopia begins.

With one hour until Operation: Utopia starts, the Straw Hat Pirates make it to Rainbase, while Usopp gives Nami her new weapon: the Clima-Tact which causes Sanji to comment that Nami and Vivi do not need weapons and that all they need is him. He then asks them to call him Mr. Prince, which causes Zoro to mockingly call him Mr. Prince, much to the annoyance of Sanji. Vivi then comments that the Baroque Works agents probably know that they are there and that they should be careful. The Straw Hat Pirates debates on what to do once they encounter the Baroque Works.
At Rainbase, Smoker and Tashigi are in a bar. Smoker is saying that he feels that something will happen in Rainbase, when, Luffy and Usopp comically arrive, demanding for water. As each duo recognizes the other, Luffy and Usopp comically spews out their water at Smoker and Tashigi and then flee from the bar.
The rest of the Straw Hat Pirates are waiting for Luffy and Usopp when they see the pair running towards them, with Smoker and Tashigi chasing after them. Nami screams at the pair not to run towards them, and Vivi is worried about Chopper but Zoro tells her not to worry about him. The Marines spot the Straw Hat Pirates and start to chase after them as well. Unfortunately, this causes several Baroque Works agents to notice the events and they recognize the Straw Hat Pirates. Luffy then tells them all to meet up at Croc's house. Smoker decides to chase Luffy, while Sanji decides not to run but to fight as well as Zoro, but he runs at the sight of Tashigi. Meanwhile Usopp and Nami are being chased by several Baroque Works members but manage to lose them, only to encounter another group, but they are quickly defeated by Zoro who shows up. All the Straw Hats then show up in front of Raindinners and enter it while being chased by Marines, Crocodile who has been informed of this, is pleased.

Luffy noisily enters the casino and demands that Crocodile show himself which disturbs a lot of the people in there. Smoker then runs into the casino as well. While Luffy takes care of the security, the Straw Hats are then escorted to the V.I.P room but this turns out to be a ruse as they fall into a trap. The trapped members of the Straw Hats then start fighting along with Smoker who explains that the prison is made of sea stone, an item that is basically a solid form of the sea which hampers devil fruit power. Crocodile then appears to the prisoners, saying that he is awaiting Vivi and has sent for Miss All Sunday to pick her up. Meanwhile, Vivi is fighting several members of Baroque Works. When Pell arrives and defeats the Baroque Works members, he is then confronted by Miss All Sunday.

Miss All Sunday confronts Vivi and Pell, and is promptly attacked by Vivi for killing Igaram but to no avail. Miss All Sunday then "impales" Vivi with her hand, which enrages Pell and he attacks but it is no use against Miss All Sunday's devil fruit ability. She then explains that she ate the Hana Hana no Mi a devil fruit which grants her the ability to sprout limbs, she then says that she has no more time to waste on him which angers Pell and he attacks but it is useless and he goes down easily. When Vivi arrives at Crocodile's lair she attacks him but due to his devil fruit ability granted to him by the Suna Suna no Mi the attack goes right through him. He then remarks it is time for the plan to begin, which Miss All Sunday confirms as it is past seven o'clock.

A guard alerts Chaka that the king has disappeared, Chaka then wonders how the king disappeared as there are guards around his room all the time, he then decides to send out search parties. A guard then returns to report to Chaka and tells him that they have found the king "in a way", Koza apparently has heard some disturbing news and is rushing towards where the king supposedly is. As he rides he remembers when his father told him not to give up on the king, the news about the rebels reaching 100,000 men, the fighting, the lack of water, his father's faith, his argument with the king, and his change of heart and support of the rebels. At Nanohana the "king" is there with an escort of armed guards saying that he has an apology to make and that he will destroy Nanohana, the guards then start to attack as a child confronts the kings. "Cobra" merely kicks the child, as Koza arrives, he demands what is going on and "Cobra" replies that he is apologizing for using Dance Powder, which enrages Koza, he is then shot by one of the soldiers while the king and his men leave. A giant ship then crashes into port as Mr.1 and Miss Doublefinger walk away, it is then revealed that the king was actually Mr. 2.

The town of Nanohana is in an uproar as the citizens attempt to put out the fires started by the 'Royal Guards'. Mr. 1 and Miss Doublefinger move to meet Mr. 2 at the edge of town. While Mr. 2 is escaping the ensuing chaos, he is spotted by a young boy, Kappa, who realizes that the 'King' is in fact an imposter. However, before he can alert anyone, he bumps into Mr. 1 and Miss Doublefinger, who decide to take action to prevent the word from getting out. A citizen finds the boy's near lifeless body, but mistakes Kappa's attempts to convey the deception as cries of pain. Upon seeing the wounded boy, a wounded Koza makes the decision to attack immediately. Seemingly serendipitously, the ship that crashed into the harbor was carrying weapons. Koza orders an all-out attack on Alubarna. Meanwhile, in the palace, Chaka is in disbelief at the message brought to him regarding the king appearing in Nanohana. The situation rapidly declining, and the number of rebels rising as news of what happened in Nanohana spread throughout the country, Chaka steels himself and makes the decision to defend the capital and push back the rebellion.
In Rainbase, Crocodile perversely explains his scheme in front of a distraught Vivi, the captured Straw Hat Pirates and Smoker. He recounts the many years of planning and dedication it took to reach where he is today. Vivi, tied to a chair, knocks herself down and attempts to crawl away, still set on cutting off the rebels before they reach Alubarna and preventing the bloodshed. An amused Crocodile tells Vivi that he and Miss All Sunday are on their way to the capital to meet her father. Showing her the key to the cage that holds Luffy and his crew, he tells her she is free to join them if she wishes, then throws the key down a trap-door into a pit of Bananawani.

Before leaving, Crocodile explains to Vivi about the solutions she has got: either she tries to reach the rebels which is impossible in the time that remains now or she tries to save her friends which is also very hard because he threw the key of the cell into the Bananawani pool where one of them ate it. Moreover the building will self destruct in a short time. To make her despair even more, he reveals that he was the responsible of the sandstorm that came one after the others to Yuba oasis and mocks Toto's stupidity. This angers Luffy, causing him to beg Vivi to help them so that he can beat Crocodile. However, the destruction mechanism made the water level in the Bananawani's pool increase. The Bananawani come out of the pool one after the other and start to hunt Vivi who barely escapes these powerful animals.
Meanwhile Crocodile receives a phone call, from the Den Den Mushi he uses to contact the Billions. The voice and the speech of the person speaking reminds him of a certain previous conversation.

Sanji, calling himself Mr. Prince, is talking to Crocodile on a Den Den Mushi, and is antagonizing him, Sanji then convinces Crocodile that he has been beaten by a Million and that they are outside the casino. Vivi tries to escape but is stopped by Crocodile, Crocodile then leaves with a parting remark that he will bring Mr. Princes' corpse as a farewell gift to the Straw Hat Pirates in the cage, Vivi does however manage to get out of the room. However when Crocodile leaves the casino he finds his minions defeated, and learns that it was "Mr. Prince" that defeated the Millions, he then spots a figure running away from the scene and assumes that it is Mr. Prince so he follows him. As he starts chasing the figure, the bridge to the casino collapses which Vivi views as meaning that she can not get away, but Sanji who is playing at the slots says that it means enemies can not get in, he then asks her to lead the way.

The chapter begins with Chopper dashing while Sanji explains to Vivi that Chopper is their decoy. When Vivi asks what happened, Sanji has a flashback of him and one of the Millions talking to Crocodile. After he makes Crocodile believe Sanji was captured by the Millions and was beaten up, Sanji tells Chopper to go on a rampage, shouting out that he is Mr. Prince, which Chopper does. When Crocodile comes to the scene, he sees Chopper and tries to kill him, but Chopper switches from Heavy Point to Brain Point and quietly tiptoes past the enraged Crocodile.
Meanwhile, the trapped Straw Hats are screaming because of the room that is quickly filling with water. Nami tells everyone to make the Bananawani mad so that it would chomp the cage apart, but they find out that the cage is able to resist even the Bananawani's jaws, much to their horror. Usopp and Luffy yell at Smoker asking why he was so calm in such a situation, but Smoker responds by asking how much of Crocodile's plan the Straw Hats know. He reveals that Miss All-Sunday has been running from the government for over 20 years, he then tells them that Crocodile and Miss All Sunday's plan may shake the entire world, but Luffy says that no reasons are needed to beat Crocodile up. When Smoker asks how they are going to escape, the Straw Hats remember their situation and start panicking again, and Luffy starts to feel weak because of the seawater touching him.
When everyone becomes desperate, Sanji finally appears, defeating a Bananawani with a single kick, to everyone's surprise. Everyone becomes full of hope once again, and Luffy gives Vivi a thumbs-up, saying she did a good job. As more Bananawanis close in, Smoker tells the Straw Hats that the third Bananawani that came in is the one that ate the key. When Luffy asks how he knows, Smoker says the growl is the same. Elsewhere, a frustrated Crocodile walks back to where the cage is saying it was smart of the Straw Hats to think of a decoy.
Miss All Sunday asks what if the Straw Hat Pirates already found the key, and Crocodile answers by saying that the key was a fake in the first place and he has the real one. By the time Crocodile arrives in the room, the cage is swinging open underwater, while beaten up Bananawanis and a beaten up Mr. 3 floats in the water with a piece of paper on him that says "See ya, shitty Croc - Mr Prince" on it, much to Crocodile's enragement.

A bananawani just spat out a wax ball, while the Straw Hats wonder what it is, Mr. 3 then appears from the inside of the ball, overjoyed at his freedom which surprises everyone. He then notices a key attached to his ball, to which the straw hats shout that it is the key to their cage, Sanji then demands that he hand it over, which just makes him throw it away. Sanji, angered at this prepares to attack, but it stopped by Usopp who reasons that Mr. 3 could just create another key using his powers, Sanji then forced Mr. 3 to make another key to free his friends, which he does. After freeing everyone Sanji says that they have to get out quick, but Vivi says that will be hard with all the bananawani, but much to her shock they are already defeated. Unfortunately the walls then break and water gets through, though luckily the straw hats are able to get out alive, as well as Smoker who was saved by Zoro on Luffy's orders. Vivi then asks Nami to put on her perfume, while the Marines found the straw hats and rushed over to capture them, while Smoker decided to let them go. The straw hats then run away, while Smoker calls the marines back and asks one to call in more reinforcements, meanwhile Chopper has found Nami's scent and located the straw hats while riding on top a giant crab. The crew gets on as Chopper explains that the crab is one of Matsuge's friends, suddenly Vivi is grabbed by Crocodile's hook, but Luffy is able to unhook her and grabs on himself, telling the crew to go on without him as he prepares to fight Crocodile.

As Luffy is being flung out to the dessert he asks everyone to get Vivi safely to the royal palace, while Vivi warns him that there are two of them, Zoro then orders Chopper to take them straight to Alubarna, while Nami tells Vivi that Luffy will be fine and everyone in the crew encourages her. Vivi then shouts at Luffy that they will be waiting for him at Alubarna, miss all Sunday laughs at the fact that Vivi has gotten away, but Crocodile is unfazed asking her to contact their agents in Alubarna. Luffy then comments that though Vivi is weak she is still trying to save everyone, that she wants the rebellion to end without anyone dying, Crocodile scoffs at this saying it is foolish and asking Luffy what he thinks, to which he responds that it is foolish. but he also adds that he will stop Crocodile so that Vivi does not have to work so hard, Crocodile also laughs at this as well saying that he has crushed hundreds of people like Luffy into dust. Luffy responds that Crocodile is pretty stupid which angers him immensely but makes Miss All Sunday laugh, Crocodile then questions what she is laughing at calling her by her real name: Nico Robin, she then leaves for Alubarna while Crocodile throws down an hourglass saying that he will only give Luffy three minutes which is fine with Luffy. Luffy then starts to attack Crocodile who manages to evade his attacks easily or else just lets them pass through him, he then tries to tell Luffy that it is pointless to fight him, but Luffy does not listen and keeps up his assault which angers Crocodile even more.

Crocodile asks Luffy if they can end the games to which Luffy responds that he has been fighting seriously, Crocodile then comments that they are pirates in two different leagues and attacks Luffy with his escada attack, fortunately Luffy manages to get out of the way in time. Luffy is astonished at Crocodile's power while Crocodile comments that he does not just posses his devil fruit ability like some people, he mastered it and demonstrates this by creating a hole of quicksand. While Luffy is struggling to leave the pit, Crocodile comments that no one can contend with him while in the desert, though Luffy finally manages to get out of the pit. Luffy then comments that if he cannot beat Crocodile, then he will catch him, but this also fails and Crocodile shows Luffy more of his abilities by mummifying his right arm. Crocodile then explains that he merely sucked the water out of his arm, this causes Luffy to run to his water bottle and drink causing Crocodile to comment about it being ridiculous, and Luffy counters saying it is not ridiculous and tells Crocodile the story of Yuba. Luffy then charges Crocodile and literally bites his head off, but Crocodile manages to escape from Luffy's mouth and comment that it is time for him and Yuba to die, Crocodile then creates a sandstorm while commenting on the dryness of the sand that day. Meanwhile people all across Arabasta notice the sandstorm with Vivi realizing that it is Crocodile's doing, Crocodile begins to tell Luffy how strange it is that Yuba keeps getting hit by sandstorms Luffy then puts two and two together, and enraged attacks Crocodile only to be impaled by his hook, while Crocodile comments that pirates like him are coming on the grand line.

The chapter begins with the Straw Hats getting ready for battle on the giant crab, Hasami. Usopp tells Chopper one of his lie stories again, while Zoro trains by putting Matsuge on top of one of his swords and lifting him. As Usopp tells a horrified Chopper that shrimp are actually crabs in the background, Nami tells Zoro that what he's doing would probably just use up his stamina. Sanji tells Nami to leave him alone, saying that everyone has to do something in order to push away their thoughts about their captain tasting the level of a Shichibukai at this moment. Zoro asks Sanji what he wants to say, and Sanji says that Zoro is scared, thinking what if Luffy lost. Zoro gets annoyed at the word "scared" and calls Sanji "beauty brows". Sanji gets insulted by this and calls Zoro a moss head. As the two are about to start a fight, Nami punches both. Usopp thinks about cheering everyone up as a "vice captain", but Vivi assures everyone that Luffy is okay. Usopp comments that Vivi is the one who should be the most worried and Nami tells Vivi should just focus on worrying about the rebellion and not other things, lightly punching her in the head. Nami officially gives the crab the name "Hasami" and tells him to hurry to Alubarna, while the others comment on the strange name.
Meanwhile in Yuba, Toto finally finds a place that spurts out lots of water, and smiles, not knowing about the sandstorm created by Crocodile approaching.
Back in the fight with Luffy and Crocodile, Crocodile tells Luffy about how everything would go his way, not Luffy's. We see now that Crocodile had stabbed right through Luffy's water bottle around his neck into Luffy. While the water from Luffy's bottle drips onto Crocodile's arm, Luffy suddenly grabs Crocodile's arm and breaks it, despite being half dead. Crocodile is surprised that Luffy is still alive and throws him into the quicksand and Luffy falls deeper and deeper into it.
In Rainbase, Smoker tells Tashigi to go straight to Alubarna by herself and do whatever she feels is her own justice there. Smoker tells her to watch closely how this place will end up, whether it gets destroyed or not, and drives away.
Meanwhile in the desert, rebels ride on horses toward Alubarna. Koza tells Cobra to wait and see how they will destroy Arabasta.
In the royal palace, the soldiers also get ready for battle, and the citizens run away for safety.
Mr. 4 and Miss Merry Christmas are seen with a bloody and captured Cobra somewhere, and while the pair chatter, Cobra tells everyone to stop destroying themselves in his mind.
People who hate the fight, people who fight, people who create the fight, people who stop the fight, they all come to Alubarna to clash.
Back in the quicksand, Luffy's head pops out, and he yells out that he's hungry.

Luffy thinks back to the final words Crocodile spoke before he was thrown in the quicksand, and tries to escape, but the sands start to drag him down again. Luckily, he is pulled up by Ms. All-Sunday's Hana Hana powers.
After Luffy thanks her for saving him, she asks him why those with D. in their names fight on. As he is clueless, she drops the subject, but the sudden appearance of Pell catches her attention. Ignoring his threats, she suggests that he aids Luffy and tells him that Vivi is going towards Alubarna, before riding off on a F-Wani. Then, Luffy grabs Pell and proclaims that he is hungry.
Meanwhile, in Nanohana, it is finally revealed that Igaram survived back in Whisky Peak, and that he has to hurry in order to stop the civil war. As the rebels ride towards Alubarna, the sandstorm that Crocodile created has reached Yuba. Before it hits the city, Toto yells at it, saying that it can never break Yuba down.
Meanwhile, Usopp is shocked to learn that Hasami cannot cross the Sandora river, as his breed of crabs cannot travel in water. Luckily, Chopper remembers that Hasami is fond of female dancers, which Nami is dressed as. So, to motivate Hasami (much to the joy of Sanji and Matsuge), Nami reveals her dancer's outfit. This makes sure that Hasami enters a whole new level of speed which seems to be enough to traverse the river, but sadly, it is not enough.
Leaving Hasami behind, the crew is forced to traverse by foot, which will take at least one day. To make matters worse, they encounter a Sandora catfish, which attempts to eat the lot of them. Luckily, they are saved by the Kung Fu Dugongs. Apparently, they did so because since they are Luffy's subordinates (as he defeated them some chapters ago), and presumed that the Straw-Hats were so as well. This allows the Straw-Hats to traverse the rest of the river riding on the knocked-out catfish while the Dugong's drag it across.
When they reach the other side of the river, they are saddened by the fact that without Hasami, it will be impossible to get to Alubarna in time, even with Matsuge (who can only carry two persons, preferably female). However, they are saved by the timely appearance of Karoo and the Super Spot-Billed Duck Troops.
At the western gate of Alubarna, the remaining Baroque Works agents are discussing the force they are dealing with, considering that the Straw-Hats managed to defeat six of their agents, not including Miss Wednesday. However, they all agree on the fact that the only thing that really matters is that Vivi must be eliminated.

The battle between the rebels and royal guards is about to begin with each side getting ready to fight one another as the rebels are just 30 minutes away from Alubarna on horseback. Chaka instructs the royal guards not to let any of the rebels enter the city, ordering them to protect all the gates in every direction.
Outside Alubarna, the Baroque Works' agents are waiting for Vivi, as they are ordered to kill her so that she would not be able to interpose on Crocodile's plan. Suddenly, Mr. 4 spots 6 members of the Super Spot-Billed Duck Troops approaching them, each carrying members of the Straw Hat Pirates. Miss Merry Christmas wonders why there are 6 of them, as they only have information on 4 pirates (Luffy, Zoro, Nami, Usopp). Miss Doublefinger points out that they have another member named Mr. Prince, and with Vivi, the number is accurate. Mr. 1 reminds them that the number does not matter, as they are only after Vivi. The agents are trying to pinpoint which of the ducks are carrying Vivi, however they cannot figure this out, due to each person wearing the same cloaks. At the same time, Mr. 2 notices that the rebels have almost reached the city, they have to do something quick so that Vivi does not meet up with Koza.
Mr. 4 fires an exploding baseball at the Straw Hats but his bomb are ineffective against the ducks' speed, who start to split into small groups of 2. Mr. 4 and Miss Merry Christmas chase after the pair who went south. Usopp fires his Flame Star at Mr. 1, who blocks it with his hand while two more ducks head west. Mr. 2 is ran over by two ducks who head southwest. Mr. 1 and Miss Doublefinger chase the pair that went west, and Mr. 2 chased the pair that went southwest. Unfortunately, the agents are deceived, the six ducks who were rode by Zoro and Nami (who are facing Mr. 1 and Miss Doublefinger), Chopper and Sanji (who are facing Mr. 4 and Miss Merry Christmas), Usopp and Matsuge (who are facing Mr. 2) were decoys.
Vivi, who stayed behind and had been hiding alongside Karoo, was waiting for the path to be clear, thanking the others for acting as decoys. With nobody left in their way, Vivi and Karoo can now catch up with the rebels.

With Crocodile's orders to not let Vivi and Koza see each other ringing in the minds of the Baroque Works agents, Koza leads the rebels to Alubarna to battle. The impact of more than two million rebels charging causes the cannonballs in Alubarna's fortifications to shake, and right outside Alubarna stand Vivi and Karoo, with Karoo standing steadfastly by his master despite the possibility of them being trampled. Vivi sees Koza's rebels approaching in the distance, and Koza unsheathes his sword as he orders his troops to head through the South Gate so they can bring down the other gates from the inside. As they draw closer to her, Vivi shouts at the rebels to stop, saying this fight is a setup. This piques Koza's attention, but a blast of cannon fire erupts between him and Vivi. He asks his men if they saw a silhouette in front of them, but they do not care, thinking that the forces in Alubarna have already started shooting at them. Vivi is bewildered by the cannon shot, and in Alubarna, Chaka shouts at the soldier who fired before being given the order. The soldier apologizes and claims it was an accident, but in reality is an undercover Baroque Works agent who intentionally did it.
The rebels continue charging undeterred through the sand cloud created by the blast, and Vivi continues shouting in desperation. Koza seems to hear her, but decides that it is just his imagination as he charges right beside Vivi without seeing her. Vivi is shocked to see Koza going past her, and turns around and continues calling out to him, only to be struck by the thousands of oncoming soldiers riding on their camels, and Karoo desperately tries to save her. The rebels draw closer to Alubarna, and Chaka gives the order to fire the cannons as the royal infantry comes out to meet the rebels in battle. Meanwhile, Vivi nurses her wounds, having been saved from being trampled by Karoo, who took the brunt of the damage. Vivi is depressed by their failure, but knows there is still a chance to stop the battle so long as she can get to the site of the current clash, reminding herself of learning from the Straw Hat Pirates to never give up. Suddenly, Usopp comes to Vivi on horseback, telling her to get on. However, right at this moment, the real Usopp is with Matsuge in Alubarna, sheepishly telling Sanji after their ducks had come to him for help that Mr. 2 Bon Kurei defeated them in two seconds. With Mr. 2 nowhere in sight, Sanji realizes that Vivi must be in trouble, and outside Alubarna, the fake Usopp tells Vivi to leave Karoo behind so they can get going. Vivi is bewildered that Usopp did not refer to Karoo by his name, remembering the camaraderie the two had shown before. She then tells Usopp to prove himself, and he shows the cloth on his left arm. However, Vivi immediately knows that he is an impostor, and Karoo picks her up and runs away as fast as possible. Turning back into his real self, Mr. 2 wonders how they knew he was a fake, having heard from Crocodile about the Straw Hats having a cloth on their arms. He then prepares to pursue Vivi and Karoo, saying they will not get away.

The chapter begins with a flashback of the Straw Hats deciding on their code mark. Since Zoro came up with the idea of putting an X below some bandages, Sanji became suspicious if Zoro was already switched with the transvestite guy. Zoro yells at Sanji that he will cut him to pieces, which assures everyone that it is the real Zoro.
Back in the current time, a half-dead Karoo runs away from Bon Kurei with Vivi on his back. Karoo runs so quickly that he miraculously runs up a vertical cliff to their shock, but just when they reach the top, Karoo loses footing. As Bon Kurei laughs at Karoo, waiting for them to fall, Karoo flaps his wings and flies to the top of the cliff, much to Bon Kurei's shock. When Vivi compliments Karoo and says Bon Kurei will not be able to chase them anymore, she looks down to see Mr. 2 dashing up the cliff yelling there is nothing an okama cannot do, much to their horror.
Vivi asks Karoo if he can get past the battlefield in front of them, and Karoo starts running into the battlefield. As they run from Mr. 2, a passing bullet hits Karoo and Karoo falls to the ground painfully. Vivi cries, asking Karoo if he is ok, and Karoo tells Vivi to go quickly. As Mr. 2 approaches the two, the Super Spot Billed Duck Troops come to the rescue, head-butting Bon Kurei.
Sanji appears, telling the ducks they can go now, and Vivi tells them that she is ok. Vivi tells them to take care of Karoo instead, and Sanji tells her to go, which she nods to. As Vivi runs away, Mr. 2 is enraged and attacks Sanji, telling him to die. Sanji guards by kicking at Mr. 2's leg, telling him to give his sniper's goggles back. Sanji tells Mr. 2 that he is not as weak as the other guys, and Mr. 2 asks Sanji if he is the "Mr. Prince" everyone was talking about. Sanji's glasses fall off and he states that he's not; he's the first-rating cook of the sea, Sanji. Bon Kurei says that he's a first rating okama of the sea himself, and tells Sanji that cooks shouldn't be fighting with dark organizations. Sanji says that he's a cook and a pirate, so that goes for Mr. 2 as well. Mr. 2 agrees, and Sanji tells him to leave the country alone.
Meanwhile in the southeast gate of Alubarna, Usopp finds a wounded Chopper and asks if he is okay. Chopper says he is, and tells Usopp to watch out since the enemy is still here. A pillar falls by itself and Usopp is confused, as there was nobody near it. Chopper tells Usopp that they are underground, explaining that Miss Merry Christmas is a Devil Fruit user of the "Mogu Mogu no Mi", and Mr. 4, her partner, is a "fourth batter" with a dog. Usopp is even more confused at this. Then there is a bark and a baseball comes flying at them. Chopper tells Usopp to get out of its way, and someone hits the ball with a bat. The ball ticks as it gets closer, and right when it's in front of Usopp's nose, it explodes.

At the southeast gate of Alubarna, Usopp and Chopper recover from the explosion caused by Mr. 4's dog, although Usopp still struggles to comprehend any of it. They then see the dog, Lassoo, and Usopp is appalled at its appearance as it has several gun features on its body. Lassoo sneezes out another exploding baseball, and the two pirates dodge it, but Mr. 4 hits it right toward Usopp with his bat. Usopp ducks under the ball, but it explodes right over him. Chopper holds the dazed Usopp as he notes that the balls are time bombs, and are too much for him to catch due to being heavy as cannonballs, which makes Mr. 4's power to hit them inhuman. Mr. 4 sets down his bat against the wall, but its weight causes it to fall through the wall, making Usopp bewildered at Mr. 4's strength.
Miss Merry Christmas then arrives and berates Mr. 4 for not killing Usopp and Chopper yet, and the two pirates are frightened to see her again. Usopp leaves the fighting to Chopper while he tries to succumb to his injuries, causing Chopper to get angry, and Usopp wonders how he can deal with a bizarre creature like Lassoo. Miss Merry Christmas then reveals that Lassoo is a gun that "ate" the Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Dachshund thanks to special technology allowing inanimate objects to gain Devil Fruit powers. Usopp expresses his disbelief, but Miss Merry Christmas says that it does not matter since him and Chopper are about to die. She tells the two that their territory is named Molehill 4th St. as she partially transforms into a mole, although Usopp thinks that she more resembles a penguin. Miss Merry Christmas burrows into the ground, and Usopp takes the opportunity to escape, but Chopper tells him to look out as Lassoo emerges from the ground and fires a baseball bomb at him.
The ball suddenly curves away from Usopp at the last second, and Mr. 4 hits it high into the air. Usopp mocks Mr. 4's bad hit as the ball lands a ways away from him, but the ball suddenly begins rolling toward his back. Miss Merry Christmas says that Mr. 4 is not an ordinary cleanup hitter as Chopper enters Walk Point and saves Usopp from the blast. Miss Merry Christmas notes that Chopper is a Zoan like her as Lassoo fires more baseball bombs at the two pirates, which they attempt to dodge by remaining in constant motion. Chopper attempts to get rid of Mr. 4 by hurling a baseball back at him, but Miss Merry Christmas grabs him by the ankle as Mr. 4 hits the ball back at Chopper. However, Chopper enters his normal hybrid form, causing the ball to fly over him as he attacks Miss Merry Christmas and Mr. 4. However, the two agents disappear into the mole tunnels as Chopper reflects that using the Rumble Ball would take too much time with them. Mr. 4 and Miss Merry Christmas emerge behind Chopper and start looking for him as Chopper wonders where Usopp is; however, Usopp emerges from the mole tunnel and hits Mr. 4 with a five-ton hammer. Miss Merry Christmas wonders how he is strong enough to wield that, and Usopp tells her that people call him the Lord of Destruction, introducing himself as Captain Usopp.

Usopp is hitting Mr. 4 and Miss Merry Christmas with a fake 5 ton hammer which is actually a paper mache hammer weighing approximately 4.4 lbs. Mr.4 easily (but slowly) recovers from being hit by the hammer after Usopp hits him. Usopp then charges Miss Merry Christmas with the hammer and attempts to hit her. Miss Merry Christmas burrows in and out of holes to dodge the hammer very similar to the arcade game "Whack a Mole". Usopp then stops to catch his breath, also telling tall tales to Miss Merry Christmas about how great he is, though Chopper full heartedly believes him and is amazed. Miss Merry Christmas grows tired of the game, and claws her way to Usopp, and then violently claws him across the face knocking him backwards. She then yells at Lassoo to take out the reindeer-man. Lassoo fires a gigantic amount of balls, which Mr. 4 hits at Chopper, causing another explosion. Miss Merry Christmas then begins to chase Usopp. Usopp notices there are short walls around which he decides to run over, hoping that Miss Merry Christmas will run directly into the wall. Miss Merry Christmas does run into the wall, but instead of getting injured, she easily takes out the wall. She then grabs Usopp and starts dragging him, bashing him through the walls too. After a while, Chopper finally figures out that their weakness is that all the tunnels Miss Merry Christmas dug are connected. Chopper takes advantage of this by pointing Lassoo's head into a tunnel, causing him to fire repeatedly. Usopp and Chopper then bolt out of the scene, and since all the tunnels are connected, the balls Lassoo fired into them cause a mass explosion all around the tunnels.

Usopp, beaten on the ground, hopes to himself that Mr. 4 and Miss Merry Christmas would not get back up after their attack is successful. Chopper notices that Mr. 4 is still standing, commenting to himself that he only has a minute and a half left after eating a Rumble Ball. Usopp then begins to flee, yelling out that the pair are monsters that can't be beaten. While Chopper yells to Usopp he can't run away from them, Miss Merry Christmas confirms this, grabbing Usopp's legs from underground. Miss Merry Christmas then comments that if a captain is weak then so is his crewmates, prompting Usopp to ask her what about Luffy. Miss Merry Christmas tells them that Luffy has been killed by Mr. 0 and that the rebellion has started, much to the shock of Usopp and Chopper.
Usopp denies this, yelling at Miss Merry Christmas that Luffy is going to be Pirate King and he wouldn't lose to a "filthy sand gator". Miss Merry Christmas begins to laugh at the idea of Luffy being Pirate King, which enrages Usopp. Usopp then yells out to Chopper, as Miss Merry Christmas drags Usopp's legs and drives him through a wall with her Mogu Mogu Impact attack, also telling Mr. 4 to get his 4-ton bat ready. The pair attack Usopp with Mogurazuka Yonban Kousaten, severely injuring him and knocking him several meters back. However, much to the shock of Miss Merry Christmas, Usopp is still standing, continuing to explain to Chopper that there are times when a man comes to fight, even if there are seemingly no chances of winning, which is when their friends' dreams are being laughed at.
Miss Merry Christmas proceeds to grab Usopp's legs again, driving him towards Mr. 4. As Chopper reveals a new form, Horn Point, Usopp tells Chopper to get behind him as he fires a Smoke Star at Mr. 4. Slipping out of his shoes to escape from Miss Merry Christmas' grip, Usopp tells Chopper to ensnare Miss Merry Christmas into his horns, which Chopper does, running towards Mr. 4. Thinking Miss Merry Christmas is Usopp, and still blinded by the smoke, Mr. 4 uses his 4-ton bat to knock Miss Merry Christmas back, much to his surprise. During the confusion, Usopp uses Chopper's horns and a rubber band as a slingshot to fire his hammer at Mr. 4, using Hissatsu Uso-Cho Hammer Suisei, knocking out Mr. 4 and Lassoo and winning the battle.
Victorious, Usopp collapses, and Chopper panics and asks if there is a doctor around, only for Usopp to proclaim that it's him.

Koza continues to press forward into the battle, prompting a member of the rebel army to ask if he is still injured from Nanohana. Koza berates him saying that it doesn't matter anymore, as they are in a battlefield. Koza comments that he needs a horse so he can enter the plaza in the north to demand Cobra's surrender, but he is shot down as it is revealed that the royal army's main regiment is waiting there, along with Chaka and Pell. Vivi is seen running when several royal army members tell her to halt, asking if she is a rebel. Vivi asks them to take her to Chaka, and the royal army members comply, recognizing that she is Princess Vivi.
In the South Block of Alubarna, Sanji is seen exchanging a blow with Mr. 2, knocking each other back into buildings. Mr. 2 wonders how Sanji can stand up to his Okama Kenpo, as Sanji tells him he's gonna have to get through him if he wants to move forward. As Mr. 2 attacks Sanji with Okama Kempo techniques, Sanji comments that he has to beat him with one strike and uses a number of his kicks, only for them to be blocked by Mr. 2. Sanji uses his Mouton Shot at the same time Mr. 2 uses his Hakucho Arabesque, sending each other crashing into buildings. Mr. 2 then warns Sanji about the dangers of his Mane Mane no Mi, using the Mane Mane Montage. However, Sanji doesn't buy it, pointing out that he is still using his own face, just with Usopp's nose.
Mr. 2 then decides to transform into Usopp completely, however Sanji still kicks him in the face. Sanji, while Mr. 2 tearfully asks why he would willingly attack his friend's face, points out that he is still him, and he (Sanji) wouldn't fall for such a petty trick, proclaiming that people are made of heart. Mr. 2 says he understands, transforming into Nami, while realizing that even that would not matter, but not before he notices Sanji showing infatuation towards Nami. Testing this out, Mr. 2 transforms into Nami and notices Sanji makes a love face when he does, while Mr. 2 calls him a fool and transforms into her to fight.
At the palace of Alubarna, Vivi asks Chaka to destroy the palace, much to his shock. Vivi explains that Arabasta is a country for the people, and the destruction of the palace would distract the two opposing parties long enough for Vivi to explain everything to them.

Members of the royal army are surprised that Princess Vivi requested to destroy the palace, that has a 4,000 year old history. Chaka, hesitating at first, ordered everyone to follow the princess's every demand, bowing down to Vivi.
Back at the South Block, Mr. 2, possessing Nami's face, presses down on a beaten and grounded Sanji, telling him he's not as strong as he says he is. Sanji comments to himself that even though he looks different, he's still an okama on the inside, and tells Mr. 2 not to get cocky, but becomes infatuated again when he looks at Nami's face. Mr. 2 proceeds to take off his clothes, saying this country is too hot, prompting Sanji to ask if he ("she") needs help, but he is knocked back by Mr. 2's Okama Kenpo. Every time Sanji prepares to attack, Mr. 2 changes his face back to Nami's to prevent him. After attacking Sanji with his Mascara Boomerang, Mr. 2 prepares to finish Sanji off, only for Sanji to notice he has his original face and kicks him away. Sanji points out the weakness of Mr. 2's Mane Mane no Mi powers, explaining that he cannot use Okama Kempo while impersonating Nami, and he changes back to normal by touching his face with his left hand.
Mr. 2, dismissing this, attacks Sanji with his Prima attack, which Sanji barely dodges, but not before noticing the attack left a clean hole in a building's wall. Sanji, deducing a weakness of the attack, dodges and proceeds to counterattack, prompting Mr. 2 to change into Nami again. Sanji tells Mr. 2 that there is something on his left cheek, prompting Mr. 2 to touch his face with his left hand, changing him back to normal. Sanji then uses Veau Shot on him.

Attacking Mr. 2 with a fierce kick, Sanji begins to barrage him with kicks, while Mr. 2 lands some attacks of his own. The two manages to attack with simultaneous finishing blows, with Sanji falling to his knees and Mr. 2 being knocked into a building, losing the fight and declaring Sanji as the winner. While Sanji comments that if Mr. 2 changes into Nami, he cannot kill him, Mr. 2 dismisses this, saying he cannot move, and that Baroque Works will probably terminate him anyway for losing. Sanji extends his hand, saying it was a good fight, with Mr. 2 grabbing it, crying to himself that this is the friendship of fighting. Sanji walks away after taking back Usopp's goggles, while an injured Mr. 2 notes that Sanji finished him off anyway.
Back at the palace, Chaka orders the soldiers to load a lot of gunpowder so the palace can be destroyed. He hesitates, but is consoled by Vivi, telling him that it is because of him that a difference can be made. She then apologizes for leaving the country so suddenly, also pointing out that there can be no peace in this country as long as "that man" is still alive. She then grows worried about the other Straw Hat Pirates, but remembers Zoro's words to go on and continue living no matter what may happen to them. Chaka then compliments Vivi for developing an independent personality, and shares her promise to Luffy to give the Straw Hats a huge feast when this battle is over. Crocodile then appears at the palace, pointing out that Vivi managed to cause a lot of trouble.
At the Northern area of Alubarna, Zoro shows concern for Nami, as she ran away even though Zoro told her to hide. Zoro, running off to look for her, heads off in another direction as a panicking Nami is trying to run from a pursuing Mr. 1 and Miss Doublefinger. While Nami violently asks where the stupid swordsman went, Mr. 1 and Miss Doublefinger continue with their calm pursuit, exclaiming that as pro assassins, it is common practice to target the weakest first.

Nami grows tired of running and says to herself that she must fight Mr. 1 and Miss Doublefinger, but continues running, disagreeing with herself. Growing tired of playing cat-and-mouse, Mr. 1 lunges towards Nami, who is saved at the last minute by Zoro. Zoro immediately notices that Mr. 1's attack split a building behind them, and after a further attack, Zoro notes that Mr. 1's body is not normal. Mr. 1, explaining that he ate the Supa Supa no Mi and became a human blade, identifies Zoro as the one who defeated 100 bounty hunters at Whisky Peak. Miss Doublefinger also points out that Zoro was invited to be a part of Baroque Works a couple years back by Mr. 7, but Zoro also points out that he refused, because he only wanted to join if he could be the boss. Mr. 7, wanting to recruit Zoro by force, attacked him, which prompted Zoro to kill him. Zoro also points out that even if he was invited again, he would decline even if he could be the boss, now knowing how they operate.
As Zoro begins his battle with Mr. 1, Miss Doublefinger decides to go after Nami, who has already fled from the scene. Nami, in a secluded location, has a flashback when she asks Usopp to make her a modified weapon so she could be useful in a fight for Vivi's sake. Commenting that Alubarna isn't far away, Usopp says he will create a weapon for Nami, which prompts her to hug him out of joy, however he still required proper funds and materials. Nami promises to herself that she will stop running and start fighting, now that she has a weapon.
As she says this, she is suddenly stabbed in her shoulder through the wall she is hiding behind, the attacker revealed to be Miss Doublefinger, who has eaten the Toge Toge no Mi and became a spike human. Nami prepares to fight her, equipping her Clima-Tact, and claiming that it can manipulate the weather, much to the shock of Miss Doublefinger. Nami prepares to use an attack, only for doves to fly out of her staff instead. Angry, Nami curses Usopp under her breath. Saying that she has to believe in her friends, Nami reads the instructions and prepares for another attack, only for flowers to come out of her staff. As Nami slams her Clima-Tact to the ground, Miss Doublefinger shows sarcastic sympathy for her.

Miss Doublefinger uses her Double Stinger attack on Nami, who is desperately trying to escape from her. Miss Doublefinger tells Nami that it's pointless, and that she should allow her to grant her a slow and painless death, unless Nami wants to continue with her "magic show". Resolving to keep trying her attacks to find one that actually works, Nami puts her bo-staff into a Y-shape and tries to use "Thunder Tempo", but a boxing glove appears out of it, which Miss Doublefinger easily smacks aside and cuts Nami on her cheek. Nami, thinking in her head that if she dies she will curse Usopp for creating a useless weapon, tries going through the instructions again, only to notice something. Miss Doublefinger is then seen standing upside down under a platform, using her spikes, and chases Nami into a building with her Stinger Hedgehog attack. Nami then intelligently uses her cloth to direct the pursuing Miss Doublefinger elsewhere while she escapes, prompting the Baroque Works agent to praise her, realizing she's not a complete novice at fighting.
Hiding behind a pile of crates, Nami goes over the instructions again, to find that the list of "attacks" she were using were only for parties and entertainment, and for the attacks effective in battle, she should flip to the other side. When Miss Doublefinger begins to look for Nami, Nami confronts her, proclaiming she should not be treated like a little girl. The basic directions of the combat-type of the Clima-Tact are shown, with each piece of the bo-staff able to shoot out special bubbles, the Heat Ball (for heating), Cool Ball (for cooling), and the Thunder Ball (for a small electrical shock). As Nami runs to escape Miss Doublefinger's Sewing Stinger, she tries to find something to effectively use. Miss Doublefinger catches up to Nami, piercing her in the leg. Before she can finish off Nami, Nami desperately throws her staff at Miss Doublefinger, using Cyclone Tempo, which, to the shock of both, creates a strong gust of wind that knocks Miss Doublefinger back into a pile of crates, while it flings itself back into Nami's hand. Nami figures out the basis of the attack, using Heat and Cool balls to create a strong air current, praising Usopp for creating an amazing weapon that he apparently doesn't seem to understand, calling the attack a party trick. Reading on, Nami finds the ultimate attack of the Clima-Tact, the Tornado Tempo, which any human could not get back up from, however Usopp explains that it is a hit-or-miss last resort technique. Back up, Miss Doublefinger stabs Nami through the head and chest, telling her not to look away while fighting.
To Miss Doublefinger's surprise, Nami "disappeared" and re-appeared right next to her, creating the Mirage Tempo with Cool Balls. Claiming she now fully understands the Clima-Tact, Nami shouts at Miss Doublefinger to surrender while she still can.

Back at the south gate of Alubarna, Sanji meets up with Usopp and Chopper, returning Usopp's goggles back to him. Usopp thanks Sanji, but later gets back with him when he realizes they're broken, telling him they were the latest and expensive model from North Blue. Sanji notices the commotion the rebel army is causing, telling Usopp and Chopper to hurry to the palace so they could somehow assist Vivi. Back at the palace, members of the royal army realize that Crocodile is at the palace, making their way there to defend Vivi. However, Miss All-Sunday uses her powers to use Dieciseis Fleur, sprouting a number of hands outside the palace gate to prevent the royal army members from entering. Having defeated more members of the royal army, along with Vivi's father, the king, Crocodile sarcastically thanks Vivi for sacrificing her life, along with her pirate friends. Vivi asks Crocodile where Luffy is, and Crocodile replies to her that he is dead, however Vivi does not believe him. Crocodile comments that he has no intention of sparing Vivi or her father, saying that when a palace falls, the royal family should fall along with it. Crocodile asks Cobra where Pluton is, much to the shock of the royal king, wondering how Crocodile knows that name.
Meanwhile, Nami is still fighting with Miss Doublefinger, as the Baroque Works agent corners her against a wall. Telling Nami that she is playing around with a toy, Miss Doublefinger says that true weapons are made solely for the purpose of terminating Life as Nami escapes her attack. Nami tries to think of a way to create an opening so her ultimate attack would not miss, as Miss Doublefinger comments that a wool sweater could produce more electricity than her Thunder Ball. Nami, wishing to create more moisture in the air, tries to use a "Rain Tempo" attack, but she only manages to create small fountains. Wishing to end the fight, Miss Doublefinger attacks Nami with Sea Urchin Stinger, while Nami dodges, shooting out many Cool Balls. Nami then shoots out many Heat Balls, having some kind of plan in mind.
Miss Doublefinger then attacks Nami with Toge Toge Doping. Barely dodging the attack, Nami notices her plan worked, creating a (small) cloud in the air. Wanting to make it grow bigger, Nami shoots out even more Heat Balls and Cool Balls, and then one Thunder Ball at the cloud, creating the Thunderbolt Tempo, electrocuting Miss Doublefinger and severely injuring her. Enraged, Miss Doublefinger attacks Nami, however it is another mirage, and Nami tells Miss Doublefinger to watch out for tornadoes.

Remembering Usopp's words, Nami begins to unleash her ultimate attack, but Miss Doublefinger points out Nami's leg injury, also attacking her with Sea Urchin Sting, but Nami barely blocks the attack, further injuring her leg. Nami comments that the amount of pain she is suffering is nothing compared to the amount of pain Vivi is going through. Nami finally unleashes her Tornado Tempo, but two plastic doves attached to wire come out of the Clima-Tact, much to Nami's shock and disappointment, thinking it was another toy. However, the doves and the wires attach to Miss Doublefinger and become tangled, spinning her at a rapid rate and forcing her many meters back with great force, knocking her through a building. The force also knocks Nami to the ground. With Miss Doublefinger defeated, Nami emerges as the victor.
Back at the palace of Alubarna, Crocodile explains that the ancient weapon of Pluton is strong enough to destroy an entire island without a trace, and its location is somewhere in the kingdom. With this weapon, Crocodile can establish the world's leading military power. While Vivi wonders if such a weapon is really in this country, Crocodile reveals his plan to bring all pirates under his rule and even surpass the government itself. Cobra questions why he knows that name, and he also questions if such a weapon is even located in this country. While Crocodile expected as much, he also mentions how the bulk of the royal army are in the city square, where there will be a massive explosion in 30 minutes: he has hidden a bomb with a blast diameter of 5 km. Calculating that the rebel army will make their way through by then, Crocodile sarcastically tells Vivi that her wish of stopping the conflict will come true, as both the rebel and royal army will be blown up. An enraged Vivi asks Crocodile just what her people have done to him, while Crocodile asks Cobra where the poneglyph is located. Cobra, having lost hope, agreed to guide Crocodile to it, but Chaka angrily tells Vivi he can no longer hold back his fury.
Meanwhile, in northern Alubarna, Zoro is in a heated battle with Mr. 1. Equipping his third sword, Zoro attacks with Santoryu: Ushi Bari, but Mr. 1 uses Spider to harden his body, emerging from the attack unscathed. Zoro deduces that Mr. 1's body is as hard as steel, and if Zoro cannot learn to cut through steel, then he cannot deal any damage. Zoro, removing his cloth, tells Mr. 1 he is unlucky, as he has been waiting for a chance to "ascend to the next level", and also mentions when he (Zoro) is done with him, he will be a man who can even cut through steel.

On the streets of Alubarna, Mr. 1 tells Roronoa Zoro that since he acquired the Supa Supa no Mi, not a single swordsman has been able to harm even a single strand of his hair, and that Zoro cannot win. Zoro responds by saying that he was just giving him some things to take into consideration, and that while he does not know who he fought before, he will change that fact. Mr. 1 charges, saying that Zoro only has a big mouth. Zoro, calling him bald, blocks his leg slash with two of his swords. Both of them wonder how long their opponent can last, and Mr. 1 spins around, turns his hands into blades, and strikes at Zoro. Zoro successfully deflects a series of blows, and dodges a leg slash aimed at his head. Placing his third sword in his mouth, Zoro attacks Mr. 1 with Oni Giri, followed with Tora Gari, knocking Mr. 1 to the ground. However, the assassin simply stands up, having taken no damage whatsoever, and asks Zoro what he told him earlier. Zoro is surprised to see that there is not a scratch on him, and that he has not met anyone who took his attacks and could still stand. Mr. 1 says that this is because before this moment, Zoro had never met him.
Mr. 1 continues with a bladed kick that Zoro barely dodges. Zoro states that he gets it, and blocks the bladed underside of his leg with his sword. Zoro realizes that with Mr. 1's powers, he is able to make a blade anywhere on his body, essentially creating a body full of blades. Mr. 1 kicks at his head, but Zoro ducks and rolls to the side, dodging. Mr. 1 continues, attacking Zoro with his Sparkling Daisy attack, slicing open the building behind Zoro and sending him flying into the rubble. Lying bleeding under the rubble, Zoro says that he will have to train himself further, as that was too close to death. Wondering what he is lacking, Zoro remembers a conversation he had with his sword mentor, Koushirou. Zoro had asked if there were swordsmen could cut through steel, and after not cutting a piece of paper, Koushirou tells Zoro that a true sword protects what the swordsman wants it to protect and only cuts what he wants it to cut. Back to real time, Mr. 1 tells Zoro that Zoro has not cut him yet, and that he is waiting to be slashed. Zoro, telling Mr. 1 not to underestimate him, lifts a huge section of the building and throws it in the air at Mr. 1, saying that when he learns how to cut steel, it will be Mr. 1's end. Mr. 1 simply states that anything that comes towards him, he will simply destroy it.

Starting off from where Zoro had thrown a building at Mr. 1, the swordsman is frustrated over his inability to understand his old master's words concerning a swordsman's ability to cut steel or not. Stubbornly, Zoro continues to believe that his method of pushing with all his strength is the key to cutting steel.
As Mr. 1 destroys the thrown building with Atomic Spar, Zoro leaps forward through the debris and meets Mr. 1 head on. Beginning with a series of quick strikes, the swordsman spins around and strikes the assassin's jaw. Returning with a kick, Mr. 1's attack is parried by Zoro who again moves to land a blow on his opponent's jaw and sending him backwards. A third blow to the head, Zoro lands his Three Sword Style: Gazami Dori technique which throws the assassin into the air.
Completely unharmed, each fighter comments on the other's tenacity. Mr. 1 then gives Zoro a warning, and that is to not think of him as a swordsman but as a proper assassin. Creating circular blades that run down his forearms and begin to spin at high speeds, the two clash again with sparks being created from the spinning blades striking Zoro's swords. Landing a devastating blow across Zoro's chest, the assassin does not stop as he proceeds to land a direct strike into Zoro's gut which launches the swordsman into a nearby pillar. Not giving up, Zoro attempts to get up again only for Mr. 1 to question his determination. Choosing to end it, the assassin delivers a direct Spar Break to the critically injured swordsman, also cutting apart the support pillar behind the man.
Believing him finished, Mr. 1 begins to walk away as the building above gives way without its support pillar; the debris seemingly falling right on top of Zoro. Against all odds however, the swordsman stands up again despite his grave injuries. Shocked at how he wasn't struck by any of the falling rocks, Zoro mentally responds that he did not dodge them all, but knew that none would hit him. Sensing one of his swords underneath a nearby stone, Zoro retrieves it and begins to notice the 'breathing' of the world around him, cutting a nearby tree branch, however the tree branch remained unscathed.
Finally understanding his old sensei's words; Zoro prepares to meet Mr. 1's final attack with one of his own, an One Sword Style technique. The assassin asks if one sword would be enough before charging ahead with Atomic Spurt, confident in his ability to finally kill Zoro. However using his new technique, One Sword Style Iai: Shishi Sonson, Zoro successfully cuts through Mr. 1's steel body for the first time and defeats the assassin.

At the palace of Alubarna, before Chaka could attack Crocodile, a number of mysterious figures appear to interrupt him, revealed to be the Tsumegeri Guards. Having gotten through the palace gates that were blocked by Miss All Sunday, the Tsumegeri Guards prepare to attack, respectfully ignoring Cobra's pleas to not attack Crocodile. Crocodile gives them one chance to retreat, however they ignore him, and Chaka notices strange marks on the Tsumegeri Guards, showing immediate concern. Miss All Sunday offers to fight them, however Crocodile declined. Cobra and Vivi also notice something "off" about the Tsumegeri Guards, and they realize they drank the Hero Water, special water that increases their power for a brief period of time, which will later kill them. Desperate to show Crocodile how much Arabasta has suffered, the Tsumegeri Guards attack him, however he evades by turning into sand. Mocking the Tsumegeri Guards, Crocodile sits behind and waits while they suffer from the fatal side effects of drinking the Hero Water.
Chaka, enraged, transforms and goes after Crocodile, who notices that he is a Zoan Devil Fruit eater. Chaka reveals he has eaten the Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Jackal, transforming into a jackal, and attacks Crocodile with Howling Fangs, however the Warlord evades again by turning into sand, commenting that Chaka is also the type to die for others.
Back at the northern area, Mr. 1, defeated by Zoro, expresses surprise that Zoro grew so much in a single fight. Mr. 1 asks if Zoro is going to start cutting through diamond next, and Zoro replies that would be a waste, while Mr. 1 faints. While Zoro wonders how the others are doing, he collapses, having lost too much blood. Sanji reflects back to Usopp complaining over being paired with Matsuge, who is a camel, and tells Usopp he only saves ladies when Usopp demanded Sanji to save them when they are in trouble. Back in real time, Sanji asks why Usopp was crying, and Usopp said that he was told by Miss Merry Christmas that Luffy was dead. Sanji, telling Usopp and Chopper not to believe that, informs them that getting to the palace is their top priority. Nami, managing to untangle the wires around an unconscious Miss Doublefinger from her Clima-Tact, realizes the rebels are reaching farther into the city, and begins to make her way to the palace to rendezvous with the others.
At the palace, Vivi, Cobra, and the royal army are concerned for Chaka, who was effortlessly defeated by Crocodile. While an unknown figure calls out for Vivi, a timer until the bomb explosion is revealed, showing there are 25 minutes left.

The mysterious figure calling Vivi's name from the previous chapter is revealed to be Koza, who is shocked to see members of the royal army, including Chaka and Cobra, beaten and immobilized by Crocodile, the "country's hero". Crocodile and Miss All Sunday's words and presence make Koza realize the current situation, and asks Vivi who stole Arabasta's rain. Crocodile tells Koza it was him, and also mentions how amusing it was to have Koza, and the royal and rebel armies dancing on the palm of his hand. While Crocodile continues mocking Koza, Cobra tells Koza not to listen to him, and suggests to him to go out and try to prevent anymore needless bloodshed from happening. As Chaka tells Koza that Alubarna will be destroyed in less than half an hour, Koza hurries away from the palace, only to be stopped by Vivi. Vivi shouts at Koza that telling the rebels about the bomb would create too much confusion and the war would not stop and no one will be saved that way, prompting Crocodile to praise Vivi's judgment. While Vivi tells Koza to try and stop the rebellion, Crocodile steps forward, not wanting that to happen, and attacks Koza, however a greatly injured Chaka manages to block the attack. Chaka says that as long as he has breath in him, he will fight, and Crocodile mentions that was what stupidity is. As Chaka offers to hold back Crocodile, Koza has a flashback of training under Chaka as a child.
It is then announced that the rebels are making their way to the northern area and has almost reached the palace. Vivi and Koza yell to the confused royal army members to hold up white flags, signaling their surrender. Koza, wanting to stop the war altogether, also wishes to tell the rebel army that the entire fight was pointless. The rebels appear, only to realize the royal army, including Koza, are waving white flags. Koza attempts to tell the rebels the fight is over, however he is shot from behind by a few royal army members, shown to be Baroque Works members incognito. Thinking the royal army is rebelling, the rebels begin to attack.

As Koza has been shot by Baroque Works members disguised as royal army members, a member of the royal army confronts them, not knowing they are spies, and demands to know why they shot Koza. Crocodile then creates sand in between the royal army and rebel army, obscuring both sides' eyesight. More royal army members are shot, revealing that Baroque Works members infiltrated both sides to make sure they continue fighting. Ignoring Vivi's and Koza's pleas to stop fighting, the rebel and royal army engage each other yet again. Miss All Sunday praises Vivi's determination, however she comments that Vivi's voice cannot reach them now. Vivi declines Cobra's demand to escape from Crocodile, confronting the Warlord and telling him that she still can save lives if she prevents the explosion 15 minutes from now. Grabbing Vivi's throat, Crocodile mocks her, saying that idealism can only be brought to realize by people with the ability to physically make it happen. Crocodile criticizes Vivi's decision of not telling the rebels about the explosion in 15 minutes, commenting that even though there would be panic, she would at least be able to save a few thousand lives. Crocodile then praises Vivi's hard work the past 2 years by spying on his organization from the inside, however he boldly tells her that she cannot save this country.
As he drops her off the palace wall, a flying figure arrives, much to the shock of Crocodile, who notices Luffy riding on top of the flying figure, having survived the previous confrontation. While Luffy yells out Crocodile's name in anger, Crocodile shows visible annoyance that Luffy has returned, while Vivi is relieved.

Luffy and Pell manage to catch Vivi in the air, who was falling to her death. Vivi tearfully tells Luffy that the main regiment soldiers were beaten, the central square will be blown up, and that she cannot save her country, while Luffy comforts her, telling her that her voice reached them just fine. Zoro and Nami, both injured from their fights, are seen running toward the plaza, Zoro carrying Nami despite his more serious injuries. Landing in front of the palace, Pell tells Luffy to be careful, and Luffy replies that he won't lose anymore, after eating a ton of meat and his blood is surging. Usopp, Chopper, Sanji, Zoro and Nami, all noticing that Luffy has returned, all arrive at the front of the palace, while Vivi expresses relief that they are all okay. Nami knocks Usopp to the ground for giving her so much trouble, asking him why would she think she would want a "toy for parties". Usopp tells Chopper to bury his body in the wilderness, while Sanji confronts Zoro for letting Nami get injured. Luffy, apologizing to his crew for losing, tells them that it's time to change everything, pulling himself to the palace rooftop to confront Crocodile.
As Crocodile reminds Luffy that he cannot be touched, Luffy manages to land a punch on the Warlord, knocking a surprised Crocodile back while Luffy grabs him and uses Gomu Gomu no Buzzsaw. Cobra is surprised that Luffy could hit Crocodile when so many others couldn't, while Miss All Sunday is shown to be visibly impressed. Crocodile then realizes how Luffy is able to touch him, pointing out that the giant barrel Luffy is carrying on his back is full of water. Luffy recalls that in their first confrontation, he was able to grab Crocodile's arm when it was covered with water, and deduces that due to water being Crocodile's weakness, that is the reason why he stole Arabasta's rain. Squirting more water onto his fists, Luffy prepares to fight, telling Crocodile their fight is only just beginning.

In Alubarna, Usopp is asked to find the shooter that will set off the bomb to blow up the city. Usopp states that since the bomb will produce a five kilometer blast radius, the shooter must be about 2.5 kilometers away. However, Vivi states that the shooters could be very close, as Crocodile would be the kind of person to kill his own comrades. Zoro and Sanji react in surprise, but suddenly notice and knock out a Baroque Works soldier trying to attack Vivi, stunning the group. Looking up, they see a large group of Baroque Works soldiers who say that if they kill Princess Vivi, they will earn a promotion. Sanji asks Zoro how much time he plans on taking, and Zoro states that they have to make every second count. Turning back to the soldiers, they state "two seconds" and begin their attack. Chopper, Usopp, Nami, Pell, and Vivi escape, looking to find somewhere safe. With the soldiers taken care of, Zoro and Sanji leave too, as Vivi wonders if they will be able to make it with only ten minutes left.
At the palace, Crocodile asks Luffy if he wants to defeat him, and Luffy answers with a yes. Crocodile says that even though Luffy was in danger, he could still see through his ability, but due to his age, Luffy thinks that with the knowledge, he will be able to defeat Crocodile. Crocodile says that this is wrong, and that he is one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea, prompting Luffy to say he is the eighth god. Nefertari Cobra is surprised to see Luffy, and Miss All Sunday tells him that Luffy is a pirate and that Luffy will be able to live a little longer. Cobra states that Luffy is the one who brought Vivi to Arabasta, and Luffy launches a punch aimed at Crocodile's head. However, Crocodile easily dodges and grabs Luffy's arm, aiming to suck it dry with his powers. Luffy, having forgotten, kicks at Crocodile's head but misses and flies by. He drinks some more water and pours it over his head, saying that Crocodile had said that a Devil Fruit becomes stronger if it is used in different ways. Luffy then punches again, but strums his arm, making it appear as several punches at once, using Gomu Gomu no Shotgun. Crocodile attacks with Desert Spada, destroying part of the palace, but Luffy dodges and punches at Crocodile again.
Crocodile says that Luffy always uses the same technique, but this time, Luffy runs at Crocodile and smacks him in the face, saying that he is totally confident. Crocodile falls, and Luffy tries to soak the Warlord by throwing the whole water barrel at him; however, Crocodile uses Sables to create a sandstorm that nearly blows Luffy away. Luffy barely manages to save the water barrel, and Crocodile laughs at him, saying that Luffy is really getting into the fight. Crocodile continues, saying the fight is no different, because if Luffy loses the water barrel then he is out of tricks. Luffy then states that he is different from last time, and drinks all the water, causing Crocodile to wonder if he is serious. However, he springs a leak, causing Miss All Sunday to laugh and causing Crocodile to wonder if he understands the situation. Crocodile yells at Luffy, asking him if he is joking, but Luffy spits water on him before hitting Crocodile with a Gomu Gomu no Bazooka, saying he is always serious.

With Luffy turning into Mizu Luffy, he attacks Crocodile with more success this time. Cobra is surprised to see how Luffy could hit and attack Crocodile but Miss All Sunday states that it is not the time for him to appreciate it and that he must hurry and take her to the poneglyph. Cobra asks to what reason does she have to see the poneglyph but Robin answers that it does not matter to him. Crocodile yells out Nico Robin's name to hurry up if she does not want to get dry too, shocking Cobra upon hearing her name.
An enraged Crocodile turns the grass and trees yellow and dries the entire ground, making big cracks. Luffy, nearly falling on one, fires a "water gun" attack but Crocodile easily absorbs it with his right hand and states that Water Luffy has not taken away his ability and that his right hand can absorb moisture without limits, thus, turning everything back into sand using Ground Secco while touching the ground.
Meanwhile, Miss All Sunday, taking Cobra as hostage, encounters the Marines with Tashigi leading. Miss All Sunday orders them to get out of her way but the Marines tell her that it is hard to obey that with what happened in Alubarna. Miss All Sunday then retaliates that as long as they are "government dogs", she hates them, and that "if you guys do not get out the way.." But was interrupted by Tashigi saying they have no meaning to do so. Miss All Sunday states then that she has to kill them but Cobra yells to the Marines that they must stop and not to worry about him, he then reveals to them about the bomb which will go off at 4:30 which is only seven minutes away. Tashigi then assures him that they will save him and stop her but Miss All Sunday attacks the Marines using her powers. A Marine, seeing her Devil Fruit power, realizes that she is Nico Robin, the 8-yr old girl from 20 years ago who sank 6 marine ships and had a bounty of  79,000,000 but suddenly disappeared. An angered Miss All Sunday yells at them if they want to live or die. Tashigi then thinks that because of her ability, even with a difference in number, they still cannot do a thing to her, so she orders a sergeant to get everyone to the palace ground and stop the bomb. With Tashigi alone, she is still overwhelmed by Miss All Sunday, who easily takes Tashigi's Shigure sword and points directly at her throat.
Back at the palace, Luffy is hanging to a rail, while under him is the palace's lawn turned into a desert. Luffy looks for Crocodile, who then suddenly appears before him and grabs his neck. Luffy fires a water gun attack but Crocodile dodges it and completely dehydrates him, stating that Luffy has lost again.

Having defeated Luffy for the second time, Crocodile drops the dehydrated Straw Hat captain, telling him to rest easy as the bomb will explode in 6 minutes. As Crocodile prepares to head to the royal crypt, where the poneglyph is located, the shots of water Luffy fired from earlier fall back down and land on him, re-hydrating him and saving his life. Revitalized, Luffy begins to chase after Crocodile. At the western part of Alubarna, Cobra leads Miss All Sunday down a hidden staircase, which leads to the poneglyph in an underground chamber. Cobra asks Miss All Sunday if she could decipher poneglyphs, and Miss All Sunday replies that she could, which is the reason why Crocodile partnered up with her and avoids killing her. Miss All Sunday asks Cobra if the poneglyph showed the location of Pluton, while Cobra replies that he doesn't know, telling her that it has been the duty of the royal family of Arabasta to protect the poneglyph for generations. They both end up locating the poneglyph deep in the underground chamber.
Back on the surface, Usopp is seen imitating Crocodile, while Zoro hits him, asking him what the hell he is doing. Usopp explains that he is trying to step in Crocodile's shoes to help him figure out where he hid the bomb, while Zoro tells him to shut up and keep searching as they only got 5 minutes left. Nami asks Chopper if he could sniff out the bomb with his nose, while Chopper replies he couldn't, as the entire town smells like gunpowder. Nami suggests that Chopper try to pick out the scent of a bomb aiming to destroy the central square, prompting Chopper to ask her what kind of scent that is. Sanji deduces that due to the bomb's blast diameter of 5 km, the cannon would be very close to the palace square as it would have low accuracy, and begins to kick his way through buildings as he has no time to run around them all. Vivi asks Pell if he could find the bomb on the city rooftops, while Pell says that he couldn't.
Tashigi, grounded and beaten, grabs her sword as she is confronted by Luffy, who asks her which way Crocodile went. Tashigi hesitates, recalling Crocodile confronting her after she was defeated by Miss All Sunday. Crocodile teases her, telling her that the weak cannot upload justice, also telling her to run back to base to discuss justice as much as she wants there. Obviously offended by his words, Tashigi continues to hesitate, but then points the direction he went to, as Luffy hurries towards that direction. Upset, Tashigi bangs her head on the ground, telling herself that the ideals of "justice" and "Marine HQ" are a joke.
Luffy, running towards the royal crypt, suddenly collapses due to his injuries. Despite having eaten so much meat, Luffy tries to get back up, but realizes he is a bit tired, and suddenly falls unconscious on the ground. Crocodile notices the hidden staircase as Miss All Sunday tries to read the poneglyph. It is revealed that as the Straw Hat Pirates desperately search for the cannon, the bomb will explode in 4 minutes.

As Miss All Sunday reads through the poneglyph, she shows frustration that just this is everything this country is hiding. Crocodile then arrives, praising the fact the poneglyph was well hidden. Crocodile tells Miss All Sunday to read the poneglyph aloud, which she does, reading aloud many facts about Arabasta's history. Crocodile interrupts her, telling her he is disinterested in the country's history and he only wants to know where the location of Pluton is. Miss All Sunday tells Crocodile that there is no mention of Pluton on the poneglyph, much to the Warlord's disappointment, however he mentions that he will now dispose of Miss All Sunday, telling her she was more than a capable partner.
Crocodile comments that their 4-year arrangement has ended, as she had led him to the poneglyph as promised, saying she has been an incredibly useful woman whose contributions to Baroque Works are invaluable. As Crocodile tells Miss All Sunday she failed him for not giving him any information on Pluton, he attacks her, which she barely dodges. Miss All Sunday, revealing she was waiting for Crocodile to resort to this, pulls out a container of water from her coat, fully aware of his weakness. Before she could pour the water on Crocodile, he turns into sand and dodges, appearing behind Miss All Sunday and impaling her with his hook. As Miss All Sunday falls to the ground injured, Crocodile tells her he forgives her, stating he never trusted anyone from the beginning.
Crocodile states he is aware that Pluton exists due to Cobra's reaction upon him mentioning the name, realizing he can find it without needing the poneglyphs. There is a rumble in the underground chamber, as Crocodile comments it is too soon for the bomb to explode. Cobra reveals he moved a small pillar to prepare to bring the entire chamber down, wishing to take Crocodile down along with himself. Crocodile, praising his motives, tells him that he can escape due to his Devil Fruit powers, and begins to laugh over the fact that in 3 minutes all his problems will be dealt with and he can take over Arabasta.
Back on the surface, Vivi trips and falls while she desperately runs around to search for the cannon. Ignoring her leg injury, she tries to think of where the bomb would be with 2 minutes left. As Usopp is hit by a stray bullet from a royal army member, he retaliates with his Smoke Star while Vivi manages to figure out where the cannon is located. Usopp, trusting her judgment, fires his Red Snake Star, which appears as a red flare to alert the other Straw Hats to their location. Luffy wakes up, having taken a short nap, and finds the hidden staircase, knowing he is close to Crocodile.

Luffy enters the basement and continues to look for Crocodile. He dodges the falling pillars, pointing out that the whole chamber is falling apart. Meanwhile, Vivi assures Usopp that the bomb is in the clock tower. Usopp writes a note for everyone else while Vivi goes ahead of him. Baroque Works find Vivi by Usopp's signal. Zoro, Sanji, Nami, and Chopper head to the signal. Usopp scratches a blackboard with his fingernails, using Usopp Noise, to make a high noise that hurts everyone's ears near him. He then grabs Vivi's hand and runs away, but Baroque Works chase after them.
Luffy finally confronts Crocodile. Crocodile, angry about Luffy still being alive, asks how many times does he have to kill Luffy until he is satisfied. Luffy replies that he had taken something from him, the country. He has flashbacks of Vivi. He goes and kicks Crocodile's face, Crocodile gets up and becomes angry. Luffy screams Crocodile's name and punches him in the face. As Crocodile wonders how Luffy can still touch him even without water, he realizes that Luffy is using the blood on his hands, which is just as effective. Luffy kicks Crocodile in the stomach. Crocodile takes the upper part of his hook to reveal a poisonous hook. Luffy and Crocodile get into fighting positions and start their third and last fight, surrounded by falling rubble.
Meanwhile, the Marines spot Zoro running. As Zoro prepares to fight them, the Marines yell at Zoro that he is going the wrong way, and they tell him to go north to reach the clock tower. More Marines defeat Baroque Works, Vivi tells Usopp to hurry but he is confused. Tashigi is among the Marines and tells Vivi and Usopp that they will protect them and to hurry to stop the explosion from happening.

As members of the rebel army and royal army continue their fighting, Vivi grows distracted while running towards the clock tower. Usopp, relieved the Marines are helping them, tells Vivi not to look or think about the fighting and just concentrate on stopping the explosion. With a minute and a half left, Usopp and Vivi reach the clock tower, meeting up with Nami and Chopper. Vivi then tells them the bomb is located at the absolute top of the tower. Pell flies around, trying to find the location of the smoke flare Usopp sent earlier, but he is suddenly shot in the air. A mysterious figure points out that they shot down Pell with their "Ribbit Ribbit Gun".
In the underground chamber, Luffy continues his battle with Crocodile, dodging the Warlord's poisoned hook attack. Luffy lunges forward, preparing to use Gomu Gomu no Bullet, but he stops himself as Crocodile extends his right arm, knowing that if Crocodile manages to grab him, he will become instantly mummified again. Luffy begins to struggle trying to land attacks while avoiding Crocodile's right hand and his poison hook. Luffy attacks again, but he is struck by Crocodile's poison hook. Knocked back by a kick from Luffy, Crocodile comments that it is now over, as his poison will spread all throughout Luffy's body. Luffy then tells the Warlord that he doesn't understand a single thing.
Back at the clock tower, Vivi tries to search for Pell, planning to use his ability to fly to reach the top of the tower. Nami and Usopp point out that they are forced to use the stairs as they have one minute left, as Sanji suddenly appears on a high floor of the building, waving down at the others. Zoro also appears, at an even higher floor, his explanation being that the Marines told him to go north, which he mistook as "up". Vivi begins to lose hope, as she points out that the clock tower can only be reached by a secret staircase, any forcefully entering would probably trigger the explosion prematurely. Nami stops Vivi from going to the stairs, stating she has a plan. The Straw Hats notice two figures standing by the bomb in the clock tower, revealed to be Mr. 7 and Miss Father's Day, the latter responsible for shooting Pell out of the air. There are 30 seconds left until the bomb explodes.

Members of Baroque Works disguised as the rebel army confront the Marines, asking them if they would really attack innocent civilians getting caught into the battle. Tashigi cuts him off, cutting him down, then telling the Marines to use their own senses to identify the enemies. Tashigi then notices that there is hardly any time left before 4:30. At the clock tower, Mr. 7 and Miss Father's Day wonder if they will be promoted if they succeed in their mission. With time running out, Mr. 7 prepares to light the fuse to the cannon holding the bomb.
In the underground chamber, Crocodile wonders why Luffy can keep on fighting despite the odds, as Luffy continues to relentlessly attack the Warlord. Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Gatling, which Crocodile manages to dodge with high speed. Crocodile mentions that Luffy is growing numb from the poison, also mentioning that win or lose, Luffy will be buried under rubble, calling it a miracle that Luffy can still stand after 2 prior fights with him and taking a ridiculous amount of damage.
Back at the clock tower, Mr. 7 prepares to light the fuse to the bomb, with 15 seconds left. Nami begins to go through with her plan, calculating something while Chopper, in his Walk Point, stands on top of Usopp, with Vivi sitting on top of Chopper. Miss Father's Day tells Mr. 7 she wishes to do a countdown, with 13 seconds left. Nami uses Cyclone Tempo, aiming for Usopp's crotch, prompting him to propel himself along with Chopper and Vivi high into the air, to Sanji's location. Chopper, carrying Vivi with him, then jump on Sanji's leg, who launches them even higher to Zoro's location. Zoro prepares to launch Vivi and Chopper using his swords, while he warns Vivi that two weirdos are up there with the bomb. There are 10 seconds left. Before Zoro could launch, Mr. 7 and Miss Father's Day notice the Straw Hats, preparing to fire at them while they are stuck airborne.
Meanwhile at the chamber, Crocodile yells at Luffy that he could have avoided all of this if he had just abandoned a couple friends, and Luffy yells back saying that because Vivi is his friend, he doesn't want her to die, arguing that as long as Vivi doesn't give up on her country, he and his crew won't stop fighting either, even if they die.
With 7 seconds left, Zoro plans to launch Chopper and Vivi towards the bomb, as Mr. 7 and Miss Father's Day aim their guns at them, telling Chopper it is up to him.

Luffy ends up collapsing due to his injuries and the poison circulating through his body, while Crocodile mocks him. Crocodile then tells him that if he (Luffy) cannot defeat him, then everything Luffy has been through up until now will have been for naught. Crocodile then criticizes Luffy, calling him a small-time pirate who had just starting sailing, and mocks him even further.
At the clock tower, Zoro launches Chopper and Vivi upwards, as Mr. 7 and Miss Father's Day fire their weapons at Zoro, further injuring the swordsman. Chopper is shown in his Heavy Point, having thrown Vivi toward the tower with all his might, and transforms back to his Brain Point to dodge Mr. 7 and Miss Father's Day's attack in the air. With 3 seconds left, Vivi, flying towards the Baroque Works agents, uses her Kujakki String Slasher Runback to evade the sniping duo's attack and knock them out of the clock tower.
With one second left, Vivi desperately tries to put out the fuse, while Crocodile shouts out that it's over. While awaiting the fate of Alubarna, a flashback is shown of several children asking a young Vivi to play with them. A royal army member asks Chaka to do something about the kids, while Pell tells Vivi to have fun as she heads out for a secret base. Later, Chaka asks Pell where Vivi has gone, only for Pell to reply that it's a secret. Chaka, however, realizes she headed for the clock tower, commenting that the weather is nice.
Back in real time, Usopp asks if they were successful in stopping the explosion, as the rebels and royals continue fighting. It was revealed that Vivi managed to cut the fuse with her Peacock Slashers just in the nick of time. However, a ticking sound can still be heard, and Crocodile explains to Cobra that a plan is something that covers all possible scenarios, revealing that the bomb is actually a timer to explode on its own (with the difference amounting to several seconds), Crocodile having set this up just in case something went wrong with the manual fuse. Vivi, confirming this, relays this information to the perplexed Straw Hat Pirates.

As Vivi watches the ticking bomb, she remembers Crocodile's words, calling her idealism unbearable and sickening, and that no matter what she does she cannot save this country. The Straw Hats realize that the ticking bomb will still destroy most of Alubarna with 5 km blast diameter, and they begin to panic. Vivi, furious at Crocodile for constantly making people look like fools, starts to cry in anguish, as someone is seen standing behind her.
At the underground chamber, Luffy stands back up, claiming that Crocodile can't beat him. Crocodile remarks that Luffy is on the verge of death, and his words at this point are all bark and no bite. While Luffy yells out that he will become the Pirate King, Crocodile attacks him with his hook, which Luffy dodges and uses his leg to divert the attack to the ground, breaking the hook. Luffy then says he will surpass Crocodile.
The man standing behind Vivi is revealed to be Pell, who calmly remembers Vivi's childhood and the Suna Suna Clan while Vivi desperately tries to tell him about the ticking bomb. In a flashback, Pell angrily slaps a young Vivi, asking her why she is in a dangerous place, also asking her what would he do if she had been seriously hurt. Vivi is then shown riding on top of Pell in his Falcon form, even though the king has forbidden this. Vivi asks why Pell trains, and Pell responds by needing to get stronger to protect what needs to be protected. Back in real time, Pell mentions to Vivi that protecting the Nefertari household is considered to be his proudest honor.
Pell then transforms into a falcon and uses his talons to grab the bomb, flying high in the air, much to the shock of Vivi and the Straw Hats watching him. As Pell says to himself that he is the guardian of Arabasta that vanquishes all enemies of the royal household, he flies higher and higher into the air, when the bomb finally explodes, letting off a tremendous explosion, however Alubarna remained unharmed.

Even from the great height above Alubarna, the bomb's blast radius reaches the fighting armies below and blows most off of their feet; including Tashigi and Usopp. Shocked, Vivi and the Straw Hat Pirates are the only ones to witness Pell's sacrifice to save the country.
However, it is not long before Usopp and Chopper notice the rebels and royal army standing up again only to continue the now pointless war. Tashigi tries to intervene in the fight, only for a nearby marine to pull her aside from the dangerous battle. Calling from above, Vivi yells for the armies to stop fighting over and over again, however her voice fails to reach the soldiers fighting below. Touched by her words, Nami pleads with her crewmates to help stop the fighting and save anyone they can as Vivi continues to shout from above.
Back inside the Tomb of the Kings, Luffy and Crocodile continue their battle. Despite his normally intangible body, Crocodile is still being struck by Luffy who continues to exploit his Devil Fruit's weakness. Landing a volley of devastating blows, Crocodile is left bewildered as to where Luffy continues to draw his strength from as the poison inside his body should already be working. Thinking back to the Straw Hat Pirates' progress over Arabasta and his organization's inability to stop them, the rogue Warlord becomes enraged and reveals a secondary knife from his prosthetic. Asking the rookie before him if he even knew who he was fighting, Luffy responds by saying he does not care, and that he will surpass him.
Kicking Crocodile into the air, the powerful pirate attacks below with Sables: Pesado which creates a large shock wave upon impact. Enduring the attack, Luffy inflates himself and twists around, blowing all the air downwards to launch himself into the air with great momentum and spin. The two then launch their final techniques, only for Luffy's Gomu Gomu no Storm to overpower and breakthrough Crocodile's Desert la Spada. Beating the veteran pirate through bedrock and out into the sky over the plaza, Luffy falls into the tomb; finally defeating Crocodile.

Luffy's final attack sends Crocodile smashing through the roof of the mausoleum, through solid bedrock, and into the air, knocking over several buildings in the process. Meanwhile, the war is still going with the Straw Hat Pirates still fighting. Sanji sees that Crocodile is sent flying through the sky and tells the others to look as well. Vivi sees Crocodile still flying from Luffy's attack. At that moment, she thinks back to the time where Luffy remarks that he will defeat Crocodile and that all he needed to do was blast him off. Back at the catacombs, Luffy starts to fall down following his attack finishing attack on Crocodile. Cobra is astonished and looks in awe wondering how it was possible for Luffy to do such a thing through so many layers of rock. Back at the surface, Straw Hats rejoice over Luffy's victory over the Warlord. Meanwhile, Vivi tries to end the war. She yells as loud as she can for everyone to stop the bloodshed since there are no more enemies, but no one listens to her. Suddenly, it begins to rain out of the blue, and the fighting slowly comes to a halt. Tashigi is also surprised by the rain and notices that people are starting to stop fighting. Afterwards, both Luffy and Crocodile crash into the ground at the same time. At the catacombs, Cobra asks Luffy is he is alright. On the surface, Vivi once again urges for the people to stop fighting. This time, with the help of the rain, the people start listening to her and the war finally comes to an end with Vivi saying that the nightmares have ended. The catacombs begin to collapse, unable to withstand Luffy's fury at Crocodile. As a result of the fight and poisoning he got from his fight with Crocodile, Luffy is unable to move and is very weak. Cobra goes over to Luffy and thanks him for saving his country, to which Luffy replies that it was no problem. Afterwards, more of the catacombs begin to crumble.

While the rains continues to fall, and despite Vivi's words, the two armies still continue to distrust each other. However the princess receive helps from 2 of her friends she thought dead. Chaka appears in front of the royal army and order them to stop while on the rebel's side Igaram, carrying a wounded Kappa, reveals them that the King, who started the up rise by killing innocent people, was a fake. After the truth is revealed, all the weapons are put down and peace finally comes to Arabasta.
Vivi, relieved that Igaram is alive, runs down from the tower searching after her Straw Hats friends, but they have left, searching after their captain. They found him unconscious carried on the back of a beard man. When they are finally rejoined by Vivi, she reveals them that the beard man is none other than her father, the king of Arabasta, who explained to them what happened in the Royal Tomb. The Straw Hat Pirates then ask Vivi and her father to hurry to the place so that they can conclude formally the battle, when asked to come with her, they decline as being pirates, they can not be given honor.
Once alone, everyone collapses for a well deserved rest.
Meanwhile, Tashigi the Marines finds the unconscious Crocodile and arrest him, and revoke his title of Warlord, for his betrayal against the government, meanwhile, the rest of the unconscious Baroque Works agents are shown, and presumably arrested, with the excption of Mr. 2. While Cobra reassures his people by forgiving the rebels and asking everyone to help him rebuild their country. Arabasta's sorrow has finally ended.

Rain has finally once again fallen over Arabasta after three years. Aboard a Baroque Works ship in south Alubarna, Smoker is berating a colleague for suggesting that he used the Dance Powder, stating he knows well the difference between right and wrong. Changing the subject, the colleague is introduced as Marine Captain "Black Cage" Hina. She is annoyed with Smoker for using some of her best troops to search a ship, which Smoker reports was for the sake of a fellow marine. Hina calls Smoker out on this further, stating that he's always treated Tashigi a little differently. Smoker ignores this, asking Hina to take the Baroque Works ship back to Marine Headquarters along with Crocodile. Hina asks what gives him the right to order her around, and Smoker responds by having her call a coin toss in the air. Losing, she becomes even further annoyed with Smoker and tells him that he never changes.
Back in town, Tashigi has ordered her subordinates not to lay a hand on the unconscious Straw Hats, much to their frustration. Vivi sees Koza being carried away for medical attention, and comes to his side to inquire about his wounds. She asks him not to die, as his father is still waiting for him back in Yuba. Amused at how much Vivi has always cared for others, he assures her that he also inherited his father's stubborn life force, and he will be just fine. He then promises he will go back to him when his wounds are healed. The country continues to rejoice in the rainfall; even the kung-fu dugongs are celebrating. Toto is shown as well, wondering if his son could see it.
In the Royal Palace, the Straw Hats are all fast asleep and recovering while Vivi watches the rainfall from the window. Igaram eventually joins her, tucking the Straw Hats in as they reflect on the day's events. The next day, Tashigi arrives at Alubarna's eastern port to rendezvous with Smoker and Hina. She is visibly upset at her role (or lack thereof) in Crocodile's defeat, and apologizes to Smoker for not only helping the pirates, but allowing them to escape. Smoker isn't accepting of her apology, asking her if she pursued her own justice like he instructed. She laments that helping from the back was the only thing that she was capable of doing, and that such is not her justice. Smoker tries to further appease her feelings of inadequacy, but she blows it off and tearfully walks away. This pushes Smoker to his boiling point, and he yells at Tashigi to do something about it other than crying. He implores her to try getting stronger then, to which she clinches her sword and tearfully vows that she will.
Smoker instructs the marines to bring Crocodile aboard the ship, as they inform him that a call is coming in from marine base. The person on the other line informs Smoker that he and Tashigi will be receiving medals and promotions for their defeat of Crocodile. In a fit of rage, Smoker cuts him off and tells him that it was the Straw Hats that were responsible for the downfall of Baroque Works and Crocodile, not them. Hina tries to reason with Smoker that resistance is pointless, as the World Government has decided to try and cover up the pirates' role in Arabasta's liberation. Smoker angrily replies that the cover-up is precisely why Tashigi is crying right now. He then yells at the marine correspondent on the other line to tell the high-ranking officials responsible for this to "go eat shit", and that this is "real" justice.

Chopper has awoken from his rest and proceeds to his medical care of the Straw Hat Pirates, much to the astonishment of one of the Royal Palace's doctors. He praises Chopper further after Nefertari Vivi mentions that he hails from Drum Kingdom (known for their doctors), stating that after 40 years as a doctor he has seen nothing like it. Chopper handles the praise in vintage fashion by humbly accepting it but yelling at them to stop at the same time, even pulling up a chair for the doctor to sit next to him. Vivi looks on with a smile as she continues to assist.
The people of the city have begun to rebuild after the war. Sanji and Usopp walk the streets restocking on necessary supplies, as Usopp comments on how strong the people are. As they reach the area of town decimated by the encounter between Commodore Smoker, Portgas D. Ace, and Monkey D. Luffy, Sanji notices something.
In another area, Zoro has already started training again. He believes that he cannot consider himself stronger if he cannot draw upon the power he used to defeat Mr. 1 at will. Nami is browsing Nefertari Cobra's personal book collection, as he is letting her keep all of them. At the entrance to the palace, Chaka is arguing with the Marines over harboring pirates, ironically just as Sanji and Usopp are returning. He asks them if they've gotten everything they need, and then comically returns to arguing with the Marines, asking if they can prove the pirates are actually there. Sanji and Usopp comment that it's going to get really loud when "he" wakes up.
Sure enough, Luffy awakens in a roar, wondering where his hat and breakfast are. Vivi commends Luffy for his high spirits, and he tells her that he is like this all the time. However, Nami reminds him of just how serious his condition was, and he thanks them for their care. Just as he does, Zoro returns from his training, inciting Chopper's anger. Zoro tries to brush off the medical risk as his own problem, to which Chopper asserts his position as ship's doctor, reminding him that he said not to take off his bandages. Zoro retorts that the bandages make it hard to move, and Chopper angrily replies that the bandages are there so he doesn't move. Luffy is incredibly shocked to find out that he'd slept for 3 whole days, equating this to 15 meals (5 a day, as Usopp points out). Vivi assures Luffy that she's had dinner prepared, and as she does, Igaram's wife, Terracotta, enters to confirm that dinner will be ready in half an hour. However, her striking resemblance to Igaram himself confuses both Luffy and Zoro, causing the latter to actually ask her if she's a cross-dresser. After Vivi clarifies she is the palace's Head Servant, Terracotta continues on to explain that she'd heard Luffy eats a lot before dinner, and provides him with fruit in the meantime. Luffy warns her of his appetite, but she assures Luffy that she has worked at the palace for 30 years and will not disappoint.
At the dinner in the Royal Palace, Luffy has consumed his food so fast that the servers are struggling to keep up and he has actually begun eating everyone else's food. This in turn causes them to try to eat their own food faster, and chaos ensues. Usopp gets Luffy to eat an extremely hot pepper and laughs at his anguish, but when Matsuge joins in, he wonders how the camel got there. While the palace guards are visibly annoyed by the unprecedented commotion at the dinner table, they are pleased to see the Princess Vivi enjoying herself after all that she has been through. The antics eventually win them over as well, and they too join the laughter and happiness the occasion brings.
The crew enters the bathhouses (separated by gender) afterwards. Luffy and Usopp fall and hit their heads trying to see who can get to the bath first. As Zoro helps bathe Chopper, Luffy and Usopp pretend to spar with each other, apparently in an attempt to mock Zoro. However, Zoro notices that they are completely naked as they're doing this, and asks what they're doing. Sanji asks Igaram where the girl's baths are. Igaram is infuriated and he denies it, but Cobra tells them anyway, prompting more anger from him. Nami and Vivi are bathing together, and as they switch to each other's backs, they catch the guys peeping over the wall. Vivi is appalled, but Nami isn't surprised in the least, even charging them all 100,000 a piece.
As Nami and Vivi continue their bath, Nami tells her that they are thinking of leaving Arabasta that night. Now that Luffy has fully recovered, they no longer have a reason to stay. Furthermore, the Marines are guarding the coast and the Going Merry will be in danger. On Cobra's side, he thanks the crew for their help with the country (though the guys initially think it's for the peeping). Cobra then bows before the Straw Hats to thank them again, much to their shock. Igaram tells Cobra that he should not bow as a King, but Cobra tells him that status exists with their clothing, and as naked men in the bath there is no King. Cobra clarifies that he is thanking the crew as a father, with a citizen's heart.
As the Straw Hats regroup in their room later, they discuss leaving that night. The decision is given to Luffy, but he says that they should have another meal in Arabasta before they go, earning him a beat down from the crew. In another room, Chaka and Igaram are discussing an extremely important turn of events as bounty posters sit on the table. These posters are revealed to be Luffy and Zoro's: Luffy's bounty has increased to 100 million, while Zoro has gained his first, of 60 million. Igaram wonders if there is any escape for Luffy after having defeated one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea.

Igaram walks in the room to find the Straw Hat Pirates had already left. He asks Vivi why, and she simply replies that they are pirates. Jango and Fullbody are seen dancing after capturing an enemy ship. Hina is talking to a marine about getting ready to capture the Straw Hat Pirates. However, the marine reports that their ship is missing.
Luffy, and his crew are now riding in the desert, on the Super Spot-Billed Duck Troops. Nami is concerned, and the crew asks her if it is about Vivi. However, Nami replies that she forgot to ask Vivi for their payment.
Igaram is worried about the Straw Hat Pirates, due to their new bounties. But Vivi reassures Igaram, saying that it's useless as the pirates would only celebrate at becoming even more infamous. Vivi is revealed to have a speech the next day.
Vivi thinks of before the Straw Hat Pirates left. Someone brought in a Den Den Mushi, and the pirates find out that the caller was Mr. 2. Mr. 2 told them that he took their ship away, and everyone was outraged at losing their ship. However, Mr. 2 told them that he's their friend and then hung up. The Straw Hats discussed about what to do, but in the end, they decided to trust Mr. 2.
Vivi is torn between continuing to travel with her friends, or to stay and remains as the princess of Arabasta. Nami gives her 12 hours to decide what Vivi should do.
Now, the Straw Hat Pirates has reached where Mr. 2 is. The crew distrusts him, as he is one of the Baroque Works agents. However, Mr. 2 tells them that the Baroque Works is over, and he saved the crew's ship from the Marines. Luffy, Chopper, and Usopp celebrates that Mr. 2 is still their friends.
A marine reports to Hina that they had found the Straw Hat Pirates and she instructs them to prepare for battle.

Igaram awakens in a sweat from a nightmare of Vivi announcing her intentions of becoming a pirate. He frantically rushes to her room and barges inside where he instead finds her being fitted for a dress by his wife Terracotta and another palace servant, quickly earning their ire for his intrusion. Dumbfounded and embarrassed, he is beaten up and kicked out when it's determined that he doesn't actually have anything to say. Upon exiting, he notices Cobra has been there as well. Cobra tells Igaram that his wife is a scary woman, revealing he's been beat up as well. This infuriates Igaram, asking the king what exactly he tried to do.
Vivi wonders if her dress is too tight, but Terracotta tells her that this is exactly what a Princess should look like. She comments on how the town square is already filling up with people, despite telling them that the Princess' speech wasn't until 10 a.m. She resolves that it only makes sense however, as the speech has been delayed for 2 years: Vivi was originally supposed to give her coming-of-age speech when she was 14 years old. Vivi wonders if she can say anything of note, but Terracotta assures her that she only needs to show that she has matured into adulthood. Cobra has arranged for every Arabasta citizen to hear her speech. In another area, Chaka mentions to Igaram that there is no longer anything they can do about the battle at their port.
At port, the Straw Hats have begun battle with the Marines. Luffy yells at them to fire cannonballs, since he can actually bounce those back, as the Going Merry's hull has been pierced by several iron spears. Nami instructs the crew to brace for more, and Chopper, who has been doing the patchwork for the damage, indicates that he cannot keep up. They are outnumbered eight ships to one, and the Marine ship formation they are surrounded by makes chasing or escaping from them near impossible. Jango and Fullbody brag about their unit's formation. Luffy is surprised due to remembering Jango as a pirate, while Sanji doesn't remember Fullbody at all. Fullbody boasts about his new abilities, and Jango attempts to hypnotize the crew, but they are blindsided by a devastating blow to their ship. Luffy mistakenly believes it was Usopp, and praises him accordingly. As Usopp tries to brag about the exploit, Mr. 2's subordinates inform him there is a problem, in the form of "Black Cage" Hina. Luffy is clueless as to who this is, and Bon Kurei attempts to explain. Hina's fleet is seen approaching the crew. She comments that they've weakened the Straw Hats, but warns her subordinates not to get too cocky. She implores them all to stand back once they reach them, as they will only get in the way.
Bon Kurei is frantically explaining to the Straw Hats that they need to escape through the opening that they've created to south. Luffy tells him he can go, but that the Straw Hats would be staying. Bon Kurei is appalled by this, as Nami explains that they made a promise to be at the Eastern Port. He wonders if they are doing this for the sake of some treasure, to which Luffy happily responds that they will be picking up a friend. Bon Kurei is even further taken aback by this, surprised that the crew would go to such lengths for a friend. Back in town, the square has completely filled up to witness Princess Vivi deliver her speech. In the palace, Cobra enters his daughter's chambers (with her permission this time). He begins talking, but before he can finish his thought he is pleasantly surprised by how much Vivi resembles her mother. Vivi mentions that she has something important to discuss, and both Cobra and Igaram brace themselves for the worst.
Aboard the Going Merry, Bon Kurei's subordinates are confused by his sudden change in behavior. He asks them and the Straw Hats alike, if they can eat a meal the same after knowing that they abandoned a friend who was risking themselves to save another friend. On Hina's ship, one of the Marines notices that the Going Merry and Bon Kurei's ship are now going in opposite directions. He concludes that Bon Kurei's ship must be a decoy for the Straw Hats to escape with the Merry. However, after spotting the Straw Hats aboard Bon Kurei's ship, he tells Hina instead that the Going Merry must actually be the decoy. Hina spots Luffy aboard Bon Kurei's ship with her binoculars to confirm, and immediately closes in on the vessel.
Nami comments that they now have three minutes, and need to move full speed ahead. Having closed the gap to Bon Kurei's ship, Hina confronts the Straw Hats. Upon closer inspection however, it is revealed that they are actually being impersonated by various members of Bon Kurei's crew, while he himself used his powers to copy Luffy's appearance. One of Hina's men comments on how the Going Merry is now headed back to Alubarna's eastern port, and Bon Kurei chides Hina for falling into his trap. He announces his crew's reputation as masters of disguise, and more importantly, their status as friends of Luffy. With this, he challenges Hina to come at him if she dares, and the battle ensues. As the Straw Hats sail away, Luffy, Chopper, Usopp, and Sanji promise to never forget Bon Kurei's sacrifice.

In a flashback, Vivi and Igaram are discussing an organization that has been plaguing the country. Most notably, they are conversing over the fact that no one knows the organization's leader, even its members. That being the case, it is no longer possible to obtain information on them from the outside, and doing so would only further place the country at risk. Vivi finds solace in the fact that they have caught the organization's tail, however, and the smile she puts on in light of her optimism frightens Igaram greatly. She asks him if he knows what she's thinking, which Igaram nervously denies and attempts to get away. When she stops him, he tries to remind her how dangerous this is, which ironically only reinforces her will, telling him that she can't stand by and do nothing. In present time, the Royal Palace doors have opened, and the Princess begins walking out to address her audience in the town square.
At the port, the Straw Hats have again engaged in battle with the Marines. The Marines are proving no match, as Luffy yells for them to get out of their way. The Princess has made it to the balcony where she will deliver her speech. The clock tower shows the time is noon (the speech was scheduled for 10 a.m.) As Vivi begins her speech, her flashback ends with Igaram asking her if she has the resolve to keep herself alive until she sees her task through. The country is absolutely delighted to hear and see her maturity, though a few people wonder why it started late. Cobra is seen smiling, and hopes that "it" won't cause too much of a fuss. Toto tries to get Koza to watch with him, but he tells his father that the speech is playing over the speakers and can be heard throughout the entire city. Vivi continues her speech, elaborating on her initial feelings of fear and uneasiness at just how large the world was beyond her country. Drawing a metaphor from the Straw Hats, in the midst of her darkest times, she describes coming across a ship that helped her see the light in front of her. She elaborates on how the ship never lost its way in the darkness, and crossed over monstrous waves as if they were dancing. As she continues to describe this mysterious force that helped her through, more and more townspeople become confused as to what she's referring to, revealing that some people believe the Marines were responsible for helping her.
The Straw Hats have made it to the meeting location, and they have heard Vivi's speech as well. Sanji resolves that Vivi's participation in the coming-of-age ceremony means she decided not to come, which Luffy doesn't want to believe. He even tries to suggest getting off the ship and looking for her, but Usopp warns everyone that more Marines are coming. Sanji makes another attempt to convince Luffy they should leave, and reminds him that Vivi's situation is a lot different from their own when they all joined the crew. Luffy doesn't say anything back this time, but is still clearly disappointed.
Back at the Palace in Alubarna, the crowd has grown angry as it is revealed the Princess is actually Igaram in disguise. They wonder where Vivi is giving her speech from, as Igaram concludes that she must have made it "there" by now. As the Straw Hats begin to sail away, a voice shouts out at them. Vivi and Karoo have run all the way to the Eastern Port. The Straw Hats are overjoyed to see her again, and they prepare to turn the ship around. However, Vivi states that she has actually come to say goodbye, and begins speaking into the receiver for the whole country to hear. She states that she cannot come with the Straw Hats, but thanks them for everything up until now, as the townspeople become baffled by who she's talking to. As she continues her speech, the Marines in pursuit of the Straw Hats notice her on the coast. She continues on to say that she'd love to go on another adventure, but she can't because she loves her country too much. Luffy finally accepts that she won't be able to come, and smiles in acceptance. Vivi has another flashback of when they branded themselves with cross marks to counter Mr. 2's powers, and begins to cry. She tearfully asks the crew if they will still call her a friend if they meet again in the future, despite her remaining here for now by choice. The Marines hear this, and inquire among themselves about the Princess' relation to the pirates. Before Luffy can happily shout his reply, Nami silences him due to them watching. She explains to Luffy that Vivi will be branded a criminal if their connection to her is made known, so they are forced to say their goodbyes in silence. Hearing nothing, Vivi sadly begins to walk away, but Karoo stops her. When she turns back to the crew, they have all raised their cross marks in the air for her in solidarity. She remembers how they determined that this mark meant that they would always be friends, as Vivi and Karoo happily raised their marks as well. The Straw Hats then decide to set sail once more.

Marine Captain "Black Cage" Hina is finishing up the last of Mr. 2's forces while on a communication line with one of her colleagues. She is expressing her frustration at having been fooled into a trap, as one of Bon Kurei's men attempts to attack her. She drives her arm directly into the attacker, and as she does, her arm encompasses him in a black iron ring that completely restrains him. "Iron Fist" Fullbody and Jango fawn over her display of power, with the former commenting that such is the ability of the Ori Ori no Mi. Hina reveals that the colleague she is speaking with is Smoker, and that the actual source of her disappointment is him. She is upset with Smoker because he seemed to actually be pretty happy when Luffy got away from her.
In Arabasta, the citizens are still confused as to who Vivi was talking to, but are happy nonetheless that their Princess is okay. They resolve to once again begin rebuilding the city. The Kung Fu Dugongs and the various wildlife of the country are also overjoyed. In Yuba, the citizens are confused as to why Toto is laughing so much, and he says that he will not tell any of them, leading Koza to believe he's gone crazy from the sandstorms. Toto is instead recalling his amusing times with Luffy, and he hopes the pirate will return someday to enjoy some water. The citizens discuss more repair work that needs to be done around the country, including the casino.
Cobra reflects with Igaram on how much his Vivi has grown, as various parts of the country are shown to still be rejoicing. Chaka has come to visit Pell's grave, though he finds it strange that he is unable to shed any tears for his friend. Vivi and Karoo watch on as the Marines attempt to chase after the Straw Hat Pirates, finally wiping her tears. In another area of the city, a couple of Royal Palace soldiers are discussing Matsuge as he sits in front of them. They wonder why the Princess has made him a member of the Super Spot-Billed Duck Troops, even though he's a camel. At a doctor's office out in the desert, a man is leaving and thanking the doctor for his treatment. The doctor tells him to make sure he gets some more rest, and wonders why he's in such a hurry. At the last second, the doctor yells at him that he forgot something, and he holds up a white hood adorned with stars. Vivi and Karoo decide to make their way back to Alubarna, as the narrator goes on to describe the amazing rate at which the country rebuilt itself.
Out at sea on Smoker's ship, Tashigi has finally awoken and comes to the deck. Smoker pours her some coffee as he is looking at Luffy and Zoro's bounty posters. Smoker recaps Zoro's exploits from Whisky Peak through Mr. 1's defeat, revealing that he was actually an assassin from the West Blue known as Daz Bonez. He comments on how all the powerful people that Crocodile recruited have been taken down, and that they will now once again pursue the Straw Hats, to which Tashigi firmly agrees.
Aboard the Going Merry, Zoro explains that the Marines are no longer pursuing them. However, as he speaks, the other straw hats become increasingly depressed, prompting him to inquire as to what their problem is. Chopper, Nami, Luffy, Sanji, and Usopp are all extremely sad that Vivi is no longer with them, annoying Zoro and causing him to suggest that he should have just drugged her aboard. They each subsequently insult Zoro for suggesting this, but Usopp points out that Luffy's insult makes no sense, only annoying Zoro further. The antics are interrupted, however, by a female stowaway, who comments that they've finally made it out to sea. Zoro braces for combat, Nami is distraught, Sanji fawns over her beauty, Usopp freaks out that an enemy is aboard, Chopper has no idea who she is, and Luffy is somewhat surprised that she is alive. The stowaway is revealed to be Nico Robin (who they still recognize as "Miss All Sunday") and she once again uses her abilities to disarm them. Nami asks when she got there, and Robin reveals that she's been there the whole time, taking a bath and reading a book. She has borrowed some of Nami's clothes, angering her further.
Robin asks Luffy if he remembers what he said to her, immediately prompting Sanji to get aggressive with his captain, assuming that he said something reckless to the pretty lady. Luffy grows even more confused, to which Robin implores him to take responsibility. Luffy finally asks her what she wants, and Robin asks Luffy to let her join the crew.

In an attempt to convince the Straw Hat Pirates to let her join their crew, Nico Robin recounts the events in the crumbling Tomb of the Kings. She rolled an antidote for Cobra to give to Luffy, who had collapsed from Crocodile's poison after defeating him. She expressed hope that Luffy would be able to recover. Cobra then asked her why she had lied to Crocodile about what the Poneglyph said, as it actually was about the Pluton and not about the Arabasta Kingdom's history like she claimed. Cobra realized that if she had told Crocodile the truth, the Warlord's plan would have certainly succeeded. Robin replied that she did not care about Arabasta or any country, and her goal had been to find the Poneglyph containing the true history. Robin slumped in defeat that this was all for nothing, despite Cobra's attempts to reassure her. Suddenly, a healed Luffy picked them up and carried them out of the crumbling room. Robin protested for Luffy to leave her because she had nothing left to live for, but Luffy refused.
Since Luffy made her carry on with life, Robin claims that she should be a Straw Hat. Luffy agrees, to the shock of his crew. Robin tells the Straw Hats about how she has associated with various villains to protect herself, citing her specialty as assassination. Usopp gets very scared, but Robin distracts Luffy and Chopper by using her devil fruit powers to tickle them. Nami swears to remain on guard against her, until Robin shows her some jewels. With Sanji immediately entranced by Robin and Usopp entranced by Robin's powers, Roronoa Zoro finds himself the only one on guard.
Suddenly, bits of something fall down on the Going Merry, and the crew wonders what it is. It turns out to not be precipitation but rather a full-size galleon falling from the sky. While the Going Merry avoids the falling ship, it is swept by a tidal wave created on impact. Some more pieces of the ship fall down, including a skeleton. While the Straw Hats wonder how this could have happened, Nami finds that the Log Pose is pointing up, worrying her. However, Robin states that the Log Pose must be pointing to a sky island.

The chapter starts from the Straw Hats screaming about the ship that fell from the sky asking what a Sky Island is. Luffy and Usopp gets excited about this "sky island" and Luffy orders the crew to go skyward. As Robin makes Luffy shut up and Sanji points out the fact that there is no possible way a ship can go skyward, she explains how she has never seen a sky island nor heard much about it. Nami thinks the log pose is broken, but Robin denies this and says that they should start thinking about how to go to this sky island.
Meanwhile, Zoro looks at the ship that came from above and sees Luffy and Usopp on it. He asks Chopper what they are doing, and Chopper replies that they are having an adventure. Robin explains to Sanji and Nami about how no matter what happens, they are never to deny a Log Pose and that if there is something to be denied in this sea, it would be the common sense in their brains. She says that wherever a Log Pose points, there is definitely an island. Nami shakes her Log Pose, but it still points upward.
Robin retrieves a broken skull from a coffin in the ship that fell next to them, and says that the holes in it are unnatural. Sanji thinks they are made from wounds that someone made to kill the skull's owner, but Robin says that it comes from an old surgery method. Chopper agrees to this, but says that it is a very old method. Robin explains how the skull's owner probably died in his early 30's around 200 years ago, and he probably died of a sickness on his voyage. She judges from the fact that the body is covered in rubber oil that the ship is probably an exploration ship from the South Blue. She finds the same ship on one of her history books and says it is a ship called St. Briss from the Briss Kingdom in the South Blue that set sail 208 years ago. Nami is amazed Robin could tell so many things from just the bones, but Robin simply states that dead bodies are full of information though they do not talk. She says that exploration ships tend to have lots of information, but the ship itself is already sinking.
Nami yells at Luffy and Usopp asking what in the world they are doing, while Usopp tries to save a drowning Luffy. When they come back on the ship, Luffy claims he found an amazing thing and shows everyone the map of a sky island. It says "Skypiea" on it and everyone gets excited about the fact that a sky island do exist. Nami says that the map could be fake, and that it is only a slight 'possibility" that it actually exists. Luffy, Usopp and Chopper respond to this by staring gloomily at Nami, and Nami says that it probably exists, but then she yells that she does not know how to go there. Luffy yells back that Nami has to do something as she is the navigator. This starts a quarrel between the two. After beating Luffy up, Nami states that they first need information like Robin said, and when Usopp points out that it already sunk, Nami tells them to salvage it. Zoro yells at them that it's impossible, while Luffy and Usopp agree, holding a fishing rod and net. Chopper asks what salvaging is and Robin explains, adding that it is possible for them to do.
Usopp makes barrel suits for the Monster Trio, and Nami says she is counting on them. The three are lowered into the ocean and Chopper asks for a response from to see if the sound connection was working. Luffy says there are lots of monsters, Zoro asks if this ocean was the giant sea snakes' den, and Sanji states that one of them is looking at them. Nami says OK, to Usopp's shock. Nami says they'll do something about it, and Usopp is glad he did not went.
Then, the Straw Hats above hear strange singing voices and they look closer to see the Masira Pirates singing "salvage". Nami says that another strange group appeared out of nowhere, and Masira asks what they are doing in his territory. Masira, the captain of the Masira Pirates, states that anything that sinks in his territory is his, while the Straw Hats discuss amongst themselves about what they should do. Masira yells at them to answer his question, and Nami says she has a question for him, to Masira's surprise. Masira lets them ask anyway, and when Nami asks if they were going to salvage the ship, he mishears this as "monkey" and asks if he is that awsomonkey. When they ask what "awsomonkey" means, he answers it means "manley" and they point out there is no such word, while Masira blushes. Usopp asks again if they were going to salvage the ship, and Masira replies of course they will. When they ask if they can ask, Masira allows them, for salvaging was a rare thing to see. Then, one of Masira's crew members panics and tell him that another crew member who went underwater got hurt. Masira asks him if it was a Sea King's fault, but they replied that someone underwater did this. Masira is enraged and looks at the Straw Hats. Nami and Usopp try to explain, but Masira just warns them about dangerous people underwater, and they are relieved that Masira is an idiot. Masira orders his crew to start salvaging, and the chapter ends with the Monster trio being shown underwater.

The chapter begins from a scene where Masira is blushing and waving at the Straw Hats. The Straw Hat Pirates wave back. Nami whispers to Usopp that they cannot let them know about the air pump, and Usopp replies that he knows, while stepping on an air pump fairly quickly. Masira tells his crew to think the Straw Hats are pumpkins with a serious look, saying that just because people are watching, they shouldn't be all nervous, and his face becomes happy and blushing. His crew also blushes in embarrassment as well. Usopp comments that they have something like pride and Nami states they probably want to show off to them.
Underwater, Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji explore the sunken ship in their barrel suits. Luffy finds a strange boat, Zoro has an octopus on his head and finds a broken sword, and Sanji kicks open a door to find a spear through a picture of a beautiful woman. Luffy finds something that looks like a treasure chest and they open it together to find almost nothing inside. All of the sudden, a huge spear breaks into the sunken ship to their surprise. It is a part of the "cradle" from Masira's ship used to salvage. Luffy yells "what the heck is this?" which came through the speaker system Chopper set up, and Nami and Usopp quickly put their hands over the speaker so that Masira would not notice. They weren't quick enough and Luffy's yells was heard, so Usopp quickly made up the rest of the sentence and asked Masira what the heck the monkey was, pointing to the ship head.
Masira says that Usopp has good eyes and it wasn't just any decorative ship head. Masira orders the "Barco Hunter" to go forward and the monkey comes off of the ship, to Usopp's amazement. The monkey goes deeper and deeper underwater, and Chopper and Usopp are awed by this while Nami asked how it is amazing. The "Barco Hunter" merges with the "cradle" underwater and Masira orders to start "blowing". Nami says that trying to push air into the ship with their breaths and making the ship float is crazy. Masira takes a deep breath into the tube and air comes out of the spear underwater to the monster trio's shock. The ship floats and everyone starts pulling the ship up. Masira orders more air to be added. All the sudden, someone screams, and Masira panics and asks what happened to his subordinates. They say someone is inside the ship, and scream again. Masira is infuriated that his subordinates are hurt.
Masira poses and stands there for a while. Nami says they aren't taking pictures or anything to Masira's shock. Masira's subordinates yell once more, and he quickly jumps underwater to rescue them, while ordering the salvaging to continue. As he swims deeper, a huge sea snake tries to eat him, but Masira punches it with a "Monkey Lunge" and it falls, bleeding. The Monster Trio have taken off their barrel suits meanwhile, and are confused about what happened. Zoro still has the octopus on him. Suddenly, Masira bursts in angrily and Luffy says, "oh, a monkey". Masira happily asks, "oh, am I that awesomonkey?" and Luffy replies, "sure, you're pretty apelike". Zoro asks what kind of conversation this is, and Sanji asks who Masira is. Above the ocean, Nami, Usopp and Chopper are shivering, commenting that something huge is below them. Back down below, Luffy and Masira are laughing while a huge mouth approaches them. Masira and Luffy are having a good time. The chapter ends where a enormous sea turtle eats the ship they are in.

The crew of Masira call out for their captain. Meanwhile Nami, Chopper and Usopp try to convinces themselves everything that is happening is just a dream. Robin interrupts the moment to point out Luffy, Sanji and Zoro were eaten by the giant turtle. Nami is accused of sending them to their death, but Nami's "sorry" is anything but sincere.
Robin notes that the ropes leading to Sanji, Luffy and Zoro are attached to the mouth of the turtle and that if they do not cut them now, they'll be pulled under when it dives. While Masira's crew pull on the ropes and make attempts to rescue their captain, Nami orders the others to cut the ropes so they can get to safety. Suddenly, all goes dark and Luffy falls unconscious and carrying a bag. Soon, Zoro and Sanji appear also carrying a bag.
As the crew go to leave, Masira appears and angrily claims they cannot just enter his territory, steal his treasure and leave. Nami hears the word treasure and just as Masira is about to start fighting the Straw Hats, his attention is drawn away by his crew. Everyone (including the giant turtle) stops in fear at what they are seeing across the sky. Giant shadowy figures cast themselves over the sky land, appearing as monsters.
The Straw Hats make a sharp getaway as fast as the Going Merry can take them. The crew recollect the events of the day and how strange they've been and suddenly become aware Masira is on the ship, and Luffy, Zoro and Sanji quickly kick him overboard.

The chapter begins with Usopp and Chopper talking about the huge monster shadows they saw. Usopp tells Chopper that if he tried, he could beat them easily, much to Chopper's amazement. Meanwhile, Nami scolds the Monster Trio for not bringing anything informative or valuable. Zoro and Sanji say these were really the only things that were in the ship, while Luffy walks around in a knight's armor he found. Nami is mad (likely cause there wasn't at least any real treasure, like Luffy mistakingly lead her to believe) and kicks the things that they brought (plates, swords, and a raw octopus) and Zoro and Sanji try to stop her. Nami asks what Luffy is wearing and he replies armor. Nami punches Luffy and Zoro comments on Nami's ability to crack armor, while Sanji tries to give Nami a pretty shell he found which Nami refuses, because it's not valuable.
Robin says it must be hard handling Luffy, Zoro and Sanji's foolishness, which Nami agrees to, adding that they have nowhere to go now. Robin gives her an Eternal Pose she stole from Masira's ship just in case, in which Nami cries in joy for and replies that Robin is the only person she can rely on. The Eternal Pose says "Jaya". Luffy asks if they are going there next, eating food made from the raw octopus earlier, and Nami yells that he is supposed to decide. Luffy orders to go to Jaya full speed. Then, the Straw Hats notice the fact that if they go to Jaya and stay too long, their log pose pointing toward Skypiea will point a different place in a matter of time. Luffy does not want this so he cancels his Jaya order. While everyone quarrels over this, Robin says they could go to Jaya, ask about Skypiea, then leave before their Log Pose changes, which everyone agrees to.
The Straw Hats head toward Jaya, when suddenly a few birds fall from the sky. Chopper says the birds were shot by someone, but everyone denies this, since Jaya itself was too far to even see though Luffy is only interested in turning the dead birds into food. Meanwhile in Jaya, a person says that he wasn't able to let one of the birds die immediately, and that this was its "destiny".
Back on the ship, the Straw Hat Pirates near Jaya and a scared Usopp, Nami, and Chopper ask what in the world was wrong with this island. In Jaya, there is a scene in Mock Town where people are drinking, laughing, and hurting each other. In one of the buildings, "Executioner Roshio" and another person are having a card game. Roshio wins the game, taking all the man's money, but the man stabs Roshio's hand, much to his shock. The man says that Roshio cheated although the onlookers said it was a fair game amongst themselves. The man calls his henchmen, Sarquiss, and asks if Roshio cheated. Sarquiss says that he did, while Roshio is enraged, asking if they even know who he was. The man shoots and breaks a glass of alcohol on Roshio's head, and Sarquiss throws a lighted match at him. It is revealed that the man is "Bellamy the Hyena" with a bounty higher than Roshio, and he cackles. The chapter ends with a scene showing Luffy and Zoro setting foot on Jaya saying things are going to get interesting, while the others (Chopper, Usopp and Nami) shiver in fear on the Going Merry in the background.

Having made port in Mock Town in Jaya, Luffy and Zoro disembark. Fearing that they may cause trouble, Nami joins them in order to make sure that they do not do something stupid. Sanji wants to join Nami but is forced to stay on the Going Merry by Usopp and Chopper, who are both afraid of being attacked. Robin on the other hand, apparently also disembarks from the ship on her own.
As Luffy and Zoro venture into town while promising an accompanying Nami not to cause any trouble, they meet an incredibly sick man. The man is so sick that he does not have enough strength to get back on his horse by himself. The three help the man get back on his horse but find out that ironically the man's horse itself is just as sickly and does not have enough strength to carry his master. After helping both the man and his horse up, the man offers some apples as a token of his gratitude. Luffy alone accepts this present without hesitation. At the same moment, an explosion happens. From the uproars from the crowd, the three Straw Hats learns that after some guys ate some apples from the sickly man, they exploded. Fearing that the same thing would happen to Luffy, Nami tried to get the apple out of Luffy while Zoro confronted the sickly man. The man however told them not to worry as the apple that Luffy ate was a dud. If Luffy chose the "wrong one", the man stated he would've died upon the first bite. With this, the man praises Luffy's luck.
After encountering the sickly man with the explosive apples, the three continues with their journey. As they travel onwards, they hear that someone is causing an uproar. This apparently unknown fighting champion had claimed another victim and is boasting his victory from atop a roof. Hearing that he is a fighting champion, Luffy and Zoro are tempted into fighting and would have, but Nami stops them from fighting.
The three eventually come into a tropical hotel. Seeing the three, the owner of the hotel tells the three to get out as the whole hotel was currently reserved for Bellamy and his crew. Just then, the first mate of Bellamy's crew, Sarquiss, and a fellow crew member, Lily, come in and tells the owner to throw the three Straw Hats out faster. Seeing this behavior, Luffy ask Nami if he could send Sarquiss flying, a request of which that is denied by the navigator. Finding Luffy and his group slightly interesting, Sarquiss decides to give them money as if they were worthless beggars. Though Luffy is tempted to accept the offer, Nami is insulted by this act and takes her fellow crew mates out of the hotel without accepting the money. Though the three Straw Hats left the hotel with Sarquiss thinking that they were just trash, his fellow crew mates however tell him not to underestimates them and showed him a wanted poster with Luffy's first bounty of 30,000,000. While they do not believe that Luffy could match up to Bellamy and him, Sarquiss decides to share this new development to Bellamy.
The three Straw Hats meanwhile, decides to stop over at a local tavern. There, they learn from the owner about Mock Town's history and Jaya's time for the Log Pose to record. Learning that it takes four days, Nami figures that they should be gone in two days beforehand if they want the log pose to continue pointing to the sky island. Just as Nami decides then to ask some more questions from the owner, Luffy and a man sitting next to him both suddenly make a remark about the cherry pie being served to them. Noticing that both their remarks opposes one another, Luffy and the big guy decides to not mind each other and just drink some soda. At drinking the soda, they both once again makes opposing remarks. Really noticing each other this time around, the both of them are starting to get mad at the other's preference. The two then decides to have some food for take out, with Luffy ordering pieces of meat and the fat guy ordering cherry pies. However upon learning the number of food that the others are ordering, the two starts competing about who can order more. At this moment, Luffy and the man decides to fight each other over a meaningless matter.
Not wanting any trouble in his tavern, the owner gives the man his pies and asks him to leave. As the man is leaving the tavern, Bellamy steps in to the surprise of the other customers.

The chapter starts out with some onlookers commenting about a street that Bellamy messed up where Roshio died. One onlooker says that "Bellamy the Hyena" is definitely some kind of Devil Fruit user.
Bellamy steps into the bar Luffy is at and asks if he is the 30,000,000 Straw Hat Luffy. Other people in the bar gossip about how they cannot believe such a child has such a large bounty on his head. Luffy comments about how he has met a lot of huge people today, while Bellamy sits beside him and tells the storekeeper to get him an expensive drink and something Luffy likes. Sarquiss and the others barge into the store and kill people so they could sit where they were. The others try not to pay attention. Bellamy tells Luffy to drink up and Luffy says "oh, he's a good guy!" and drinks. Nami and Zoro yell at Luffy to watch out, but it is too late and Bellamy smashes Luffy's head into the counter. Bellamy's crew laugh and the onlookers are shocked. Zoro puts a sword up to Bellamy's neck, furious. Nami tells Zoro to stop since they have not gained any information in the town yet. Luffy gets up and tells Bellamy to get ready. The others cheer on since they like to see fights. Bellamy laughs and says this is a test, not a fight.
Nami tells Luffy to wait, and asks the storekeeper about the sky island, to everyone's shock. The Straw Hats are confused. After an awkward moment of silence, the whole bar bursts in laughter. When Nami says that the log pose is actually pointing to the sky, everyone laughs crazily and say that Log Poses tend to go nuts all the time, embarrassing Nami. Bellamy cackles and talks about how people who have dreams are stupid. He says that he was going to test Luffy and put him in his crew of the "New Age" but Luffy is too much of an idiot to join. He talks about how people who have dreams are weaklings, and hits Luffy with a bottle. Then, other people start throwing things at Luffy, Zoro, and Nami as well, saying that their existence makes their rum taste bad and to get lost. Sarquiss tells Bellamy that the store wants to see a "show", which Bellamy agrees to. Nami tells Luffy and Zoro that they can forget about their promise, so they can beat up Bellamy, but Luffy tells Zoro to never buy this fight.

The chapter starts from when the onlookers are mocking Luffy and the others. Nami yells at them to fight, and not just stand there, but Sarquiss comments that they are smart enough to know not to fight Bellamy. Bellamy's crew talks about how the marines these days are nice giving so much money for a loser like Luffy. Nami does not understand why Luffy and Zoro will not buy the fight. Both are wounded and bloody top to bottom. Bellamy insults the two pirates even more, and spits his drink all over them, but they still refuse to fight. Bellamy says they are a sore to their eye, and hurt the two again. Nami rushes over to their side, and Sarquiss tells her that being with them will eventually ruin her, so he ask if he could buy her from them. He asks how much she would be, but Nami furiously looks at them and says that she is too good for a loser team like them. Sarquiss comments that that is one expensive woman, and everyone in the bar laughs that the entire crew is nuts. Bellamy tells the "small fry" to begone. Nami drags the two out of the store, eyes full of tears, while everyone jeers at them.
All the sudden, Nami hears someone say that sky island exists. It is the man from the store earlier. He asks why Nami is sad since there is nothing to be sad about; that Luffy and Zoro won this fight. Luffy has a small flashback on how he told Shanks and Ace he would surpass them someday. He also tells Nami that she sure has guts to say the things she did in the store. Luffy and Zoro get up. The man says that the "New Age" they talk of is nonsense, and shouts that the age in which pirates dream will never end; that peoples' dreams are infinite. In the store, Bellamy's crew think Luffy and Zoro are causing a mad ruckus outside, and they laugh that it is lame. Back outside, while the man goes on with his speech, everyone wonders what he is yelling so loudly for. The man says that some fights are fistless, and laughs. Zoro starts to leave, and Luffy stares at the man. The man also leaves, and wishes good luck on their trip to the Sky Island. Luffy turns away, and Nami says to Luffy that he may know about the Sky Island and wonders who he is. Luffy does not know, but he also adds that it is not "he". Nami is confused. Zoro says that it is probably "them". Nami does not get this and asks if he has a crew or something, but they do not answer. The man laughs, saying that his rum tastes good today.
Meanwhile, the rest of the crew are fixing the ship. Sanji says they should just get a new ship, which angers Usopp. Usopp says the ship is important, and that is why he is always fixing it, and yells at Sanji to help, but Sanji says that this is more of patching up than fixing. Usopp tells them to shut up and makes a strange face, and Chopper thinks it is funny so he tells Usopp to do it again, and they crack up. When Sanji asks what they want for dinner, Usopp and Chopper both do the shut up face and tells him to shut up so Sanji says, "oh, you do not want any, huh?" to their shock. All the sudden, he hears weird singing saying "Salvage, Salvage" and sees a boat, asking what it was. The chapter ends with a freaked-out Chopper and Usopp saying "this song is...!!"

Luffy, Zoro, and Nami return to their ship. Usopp and Chopper are shocked when they see their wounds, and Sanji is only worried about Nami. Chopper yells "DOCTORRR!!!" and Usopp slaps him, pointing out that he is the doctor.
After Chopper heals the 2 pirates, Usopp tries to ask what happened, but they say there is nothing to worry about since it is all over anyway. Nami is really mad about the fact that Luffy and Zoro did not fight back. Usopp wonders why the unhurt Nami is so mad. Chopper happily asks if they got any information on sky island, and Nami sways and looks at Chopper with a furious look which scares him. Nami talks about how everyone laughed when she said the word "sky island" and asks angrily if she had said anything THAT funny. At this point, Usopp uses his ketchup star to pretend to be dead, and Chopper eats a precious Rumble Ball to get into his guard point.
Meanwhile at the Jaya mouth bay, a pirate captain uses his "search sonar" to find a huge school of fish for dinner. The search sonar also picks up the tracks of a ship and one of his servants report this. The captain orders him to tell where they are, and when he does, the captain yells at him to tell him if it is in sight already. The ship is the Straw Hats' ship, and Luffy, Sanji, and Usopp talk about how a weird thing showed up, and that it is not Masira. Usopp says that he really did see the "salvage guys" but Luffy does not seem to care. The captain comes near and starts talking to Luffy, and it is revealed that his name is Shoujou. Luffy comments about his unique facial features and asks what species he is. Shoujou replies "I'm a homo sapiens sapiens you dumbass". Shoujou's servants warn them to not make their big boss mad, but Shoujou says he does not really mind, and adds that he is on the same level as Crocodile and people are recruiting him into the Seven Warlords of the Sea (which is, of course, a lie). Luffy simply says "oh, so you wanna be a Warlord huh?" which makes Shoujou somewhat mad. He states that he is amazing since he has never cut his hair in 25 years. Luffy says that is just stupid, and Shoujou warns them about his strength. Luffy asks him if they could pass through, but he says that the area is his territory and if they want to pass, then they have to pay. The Straw Hats talk about how the 'territory' part is just like Masira, and when Shoujou asks what they know about him, Luffy stated that they kicked him away. This enrages Shoujou who says he will get revenge for his brother, even though Luffy reminds him Masira is not dead. Shoujou uses his "Havoc Sonar", which destroys his own ship and crew. Sanji asks what the heck he's doing, and Luffy says that the power is pretty awesome. Nami tells them to move on and the others are relieved that "Demon Nami" is gone. Usopp then realizes that they are also getting damaged from the attack and they start panicking.
Back at Mock Town, people talk about a strong, beautiful woman with strange powers who beat up an entire crowd in a bar, who asked about a man named Cricket. They talked about how she was probably after the gold that he found recently. Bellamy, who is sitting nearby asks what they meant by 'gold'. The chapter ends with Bellamy asking them to tell him more about it.

The chapter begins with the Straw Hats fixing their ship. Usopp complains about the "orangutan" that destroyed his dear ship even more. Zoro comments on how crappy the ship became, and that they should get a new one, which enrages Usopp. Luffy tells Usopp that complaining will not do anything, and that since the Going Merry is their important crew member, they have to work hard and fix her up. Usopp says that Luffy is the only one who understands and cries at the warm statement, but at the same time, Luffy bangs the hammer too hard ending up breaking her even more. Usopp yells at Luffy and Luffy screams.
The Straw Hats arrive at their goal. Someone asks who they are looking for again. Robin seems to have come on board at some point, and says 'Mont Blanc Cricket'. Nami says "the man full of dreams, huh?". Luffy and Usopp are shocked/impressed at the castle they see, amazed at Cricket's house, until they discover that the "castle" is only a board in front of a small house. Nami asks Robin what kind of dream this man has, and she says she does not know much about it but the fact that there is a legend that in Jaya, that there is a large amount of gold hidden somewhere. This surprises the crew. Nami orders Chopper to dig with his horns and Luffy enters the house, much to Usopp's shock. Meanwhile, Nami finds a book called "Noland the Liar" and laughs, while Usopp comments that it is a very appealing title. Sanji hears this and says that he knows this title, while Chopper still digs where he was told to. Sanji says that everyone in the North Blue knows this story, revealing that he was born there. While Sanji explains about the story, Nami yells at Chopper that he is too loud and asks what in the world he is doing, much to his shock. There are a few pages on what the story is about.
At Mocktown, Bellamy and Sarquiss laugh when they hear that Cricket is Noland's descendant, saying how they remember the times back when they were young, people used to tell them that if they kept on lying, they would be executed like Noland. It is revealed that all of the Bellamy Pirates come from the North Blue. They all laugh at the fact that Noland's descendant is still looking for the gold from 400 years ago.
Back at the other shore, Nami adds a sentence to the story saying "...and the pathetic liar died without becoming a true warrior of the sea..." and looking at Usopp, to his shock. Luffy is staring at the water bubbling and suddenly, he falls into the ocean. Then someone comes out of the ocean, and it is revealed to be Mont Blanc Cricket, who is mad about the intruders around his house. Sanji tells Usopp to help Luffy. Cricket assumes their target is the gold and starts fighting Sanji. He takes out a gun and shoots Sanji which scares Nami and Chopper, but the bullet did not hit him. Zoro takes his swords and runs to help Sanji out, but Cricket collapses all of a sudden, to everyone's surprise. Usopp surfaces with Luffy and asks what he was doing, and Luffy replies that he thought there was a chestnut in the water and when he looked closer, the chestnut became a man who pulled him in.
In the house of Cricket, the Straw Hats find out that Cricket has dysbarism, which Chopper explains. Luffy is confused so he just calls it "mystery symptoms". Chopper says it usually goes away pretty quickly, but this man has been diving in a crazy way so that his body did not even have the time to properly heal. Nami wonders why he would do this, and Chopper says he does not know, but says that in some cases like this, this sickness can mean death. At the end of the chapter, there is a picture of Cricket, Masira, and Shoujou together.

The chapter starts with Masira and Shoujou meeting up with each other. Shoujou is surprised that Masira is alive and Masira asks why, but Shoujou ignores him. They both heard the gunshot so they wonder if something happened to Cricket. They burst inside the house to find the Straw Hats nursing Cricket. The 2 are confused while Chopper, Nami, and Usopp panic and the others continue to do whatever they were doing. Masira and Shoujou shout, asking what they are doing. Luffy tell them to get lost since they are nursing the old guy, and Usopp and Chopper yell that wild animals do not properly listen to you, but the two cry saying that the Straw Hats are good guys, to Usopp and Chopper's shock.
Masira and Shoujou have a nice talk together with Luffy. In this talk, it is revealed that they are called the "Saruyama Alliance". Zoro and Usopp wonder why Luffy blended in the group, and conclude that they are all alike. Shoujou is impressed that such a little squirt like Luffy would be able to kick away Masira, and Luffy says it was pretty easy and Shoujou would probably be able to do it as well, so Shoujou kicks away Masira to see how easy it is, and agrees. Chopper comes to report that Cricket woke up, and Luffy goes to ask something. Cricket thanks them and said he thought they were gold-hunter idiots. Nami hears this and her eyes turn into belly signs, but Usopp tells her to stop. Luffy asks Cricket how to go to Sky Island, which he laughs about, making Nami want to punch him, but Usopp stops her, saying he is a patient. Luffy asks if Sky Island does not exist, and Cricket replies that he knows a person who said it exists, but that person was a famous big-time liar whose descendants all are the laughingstock of the world. At this, Luffy stares at Usopp who is shocked and denies him. Cricket says that there is a story called "Noland the Liar". Luffy looks at Usopp again, who denies him.
Cricket reveals he is the descendant of this Noland and that this is the place where the story took place. He explained that no one in his family ever hated Noland since he was actually a "very honest person". He says that even though in the book, his face looks stupid, Noland actually died crying sadly and desperately tried to make everyone believe him. Cricket furiously asks if they know how it feels like to be laughed by people you do not even know. He just wanted to become free from the mocking of everyone, and became a pirate. But 10 years later, he and his crew came across Jaya and Cricket decided to find the "gold" Noland talked about. Because of this choice, Cricket's crew went separate ways with him and he has been looking for the gold underwater since. He says that this is a duel with the person who messed up his life. Usopp cries at the story, and Luffy asks how he got to know the monkey people. Usopp says Cricket probably had another man-to-man drama with them, but Cricket says that they are just fans of the "Noland the Liar" book. Nami comments on the simple connection between them. Cricket explains how they formed the Saruyama Alliance 5 or 6 years ago, while the two men have a friendly fight outside. Luffy says that he just wants to know how to go to Sky Island, and Cricket hands Noland's log book for Nami to read. Nami and the others read excitedly and see that Noland wrote as if Sky Island normally exists. Everyone is overjoyed, and Cricket walks quietly out of the house to talk to the Saruyama Alliance. Cricket asks if they like the Straw Hats and they ask why. He says that the Straw Hats extremely wants to go to the Sky Island, and the two men comment that they would die on their own. The chapter ends with the Saruyama Alliance deciding to help the Straw Hats.

The chapter begins with Mont Blanc Cricket telling the Straw Hats that he will tell them everything he knows about Sky Island. He tells them to believe whatever he says, which Luffy quickly replies okay. Cricket talks about how night suddenly approaches in the middle of the day. Luffy and Usopp responds by saying that they remember this happening before, and adds that a few gigantic shadows appeared with the night as well. Cricket puts aside the story of the monsters and continues, explaining that the sudden night is actually the shadow of a very dense cloud. Nami points out that the darkness was far more than any shadow of a cloud, and Luffy says that Cricket is an idiot since days that have lots of clouds are cloudy, which Usopp and Chopper agree to. At this, Cricket yells at them to shut up and listen. He explains what this cloud is called and how it is a cloud that never changes for thousands and millions of years, known as a "millennium cumulonimbus". Nami denies this and Luffy calls it a mystery cloud. Cricket says that the only place a Sky Island can be is on one of these clouds. At this, everyone celebrates that Sky Island exists and Luffy orders to go skyward, but Nami yells at them that they do not know how to.
Cricket explains about the Knock Up Stream, saying that it is the only way he knows of to go to the Sky Island, and that the Straw Hats have to be very lucky in order to even get there without dying. Usopp hears this and tries to cancel their trip to Sky Island, but Luffy insists everything will be ok. Usopp points out that their ship will not be able to handle such a disaster, but Cricket says they can count on Masira and Shoujou for the ship reinforcement. Nami tells Luffy that they will not make it since a Knock Up Stream only appears 5 times a month and in order to get to Skypiea, the Knock Up Stream has to be right below it. She reminds him that they only have a day before their Log Pose changes destinations. When Usopp asks Cricket when the next time this happens will be, Cricket answers that it will happen the next day at noon, much to Usopp's horror.
Usopp suddenly accuses Cricket of lying about everything he just said, saying that they only met him just today yet he is being too nice. Luffy tries to stop him but Usopp just tells him to shut up and goes on talking about how everything is going too smoothly and that Cricket is lying since he is Noland's descendant after all. The two men and Sanji come out saying the food is ready. There is an awkward moment of silence. Cricket starts talking again about the next day's Knock Up Stream and night. He says that he is just happy to meet idiots like them, and tells everybody to come in the house and eat. When he calls Usopp a comrade, he starts to feel bad and asks Nami if he is a miserable coward. Everyone rushes to eat, and Nami replies by adding that he is a jerk as well and tells him he should apologize. Usopp hugs Cricket, saying that he is sorry.
The Straw Hats and the Saruyama Alliance have a big party as Robin sits in a corner and reads Noland's log book. Cricket says that "there lies the gold in the skull's right eye" was the last sentence by Noland and Cricket cannot tell what he meant by this. As they party some more, Bellamy's ship approaches Cricket's house.

The chapter begins with Cricket acting out Noland's words on his logbook and everyone happily listening while eating. Cricket shows the Straw Hat Pirates his gold he found after searching for months. He stated that he has 3 of the same bell-shaped ingots, and tells Masira to show the Straw Hats the South Bird shaped gold. As the Saruyama Alliance explain what the South Bird is, they notices all the sudden that they forgot to tell the Straw Hats to go get a South Bird and panic. The Straw Hats ask why they would need a bird and Cricket explains that in order to get to where the Knock Up Stream will appear, they have to have a South Bird who always points south since the Knock Up Stream is south from where they are, and since it is in the middle of the sea, no Log Pose would work. Cricket tells the Straw Hats to hurry up and find one, much to their surprise.
The Straw Hats split up into teams with bug nets in the dark. They know what the South Bird was right away by hearing the "strange voice" Noland talked about in his logbook. The Sanji/Nami/Usopp team searched and encounters with many bugs to Nami and Sanji's horror, although Usopp did not mind them much. The Robin/Zoro team destroys any huge bug that gets in their way, and do not seem to get along well. The Luffy/Chopper team find rare beetles and are having a good time until the South Bird drops a bee's nest next to them, making them have to dash full speed as the hornets from inside chased them. Chopper notices that the South Bird is doing all of this and tells Luffy. Back at Cricket's house, the Saruyama Alliance encounters the Bellamy Pirates who came to steal their gold.

In the forest on Jaya, Chopper and Luffy are running for their lives from some deadly mantises flying after them. The mantises attack, but Chopper and Luffy manage to dodge, though the tree behind them is cut in half. Chopper and Luffy look back and see one of the large mantises sitting on the tree, and run for it, as the mantis chasing after them and slicing up the net. Suddenly, Chopper notices a South Bird sitting and grinning up in a tree and guesses that the bird is commanding the bugs to attack them for some unknown reason. Meanwhile, in another part of the forest, three South Birds start singing, causing Usopp to wonder where the sound came from. Sanji also hears strange sounds, and looking up, sees what appears to be boulders rolling towards them. Usopp looks through his goggles and wonders the "boulders" are ladybug droppings, but Nami says that they are actually bugs. They get closer and appear to be huge seven-star ladybugs, so Sanji kicks one to get it away from Nami, while the South Bird laughs up in a tree. In yet another part of the forest, Zoro challenges some beetles who had been attacking him while Robin too notices a strange sound. Sanji, Usopp, and Nami then run into a slug and counter it with salt, while Luffy turns to fight some bees, only to be pulled away by Chopper, who tells him they are poisonous. More and more animals come, such as fireflies, cockroaches, and even boars as the sounds of the South Bird echo through the forest.
Meanwhile, back at the Saruyama Alliance's headquarters, Bellamy admires a golden statue of the South Bird. Mont Blanc Cricket, bleeding on the ground, states that they have no right to take the gold, but Sarquiss questions him and attacks with a Falcon Slash, which Masira takes to protect Cricket. Sarquiss laughs and says that because they are stronger, they have every right to take the gold from the Saruyama Alliance. Shoujou tells Cricket to run, and unleashes a Wail of Destruction, hurting Bellamy's crew. Sarquiss moves to attack him, but Bellamy says to let him take care of it, and Cricket says that the power of the Bane Bane no Mi is going to be used again. Bellamy turns his legs into springs and attacks Shoujou with a Spring Sniper. Cricket tells Shoujou to run, but Bellamy hits Shoujou, knocking him clean through the house of the Saruyama Alliance, leaving him floating in the water. As Cricket thinks about the fun times he had with Shoujou and Masira, Bellamy gets on his ship, telling Cricket to grow up, and that the golden city was all Mont Blanc Noland's imagination. His crew laughs, and Bellamy states that fantasies never comes true as Cricket continues thinking about Masira and Shoujou telling him that the golden city exists. Suddenly, Cricket tells Bellamy to hold it and lights a cigarette, saying that chickens like Bellamy who cannot even fight dreams should not be lecturing someone on how to be a pirate. Bellamy turns around, asking Cricket what he said.
Back in the forest, the Straw Hat Pirates have reunited and compare the results of their journeys. None of them have managed to catch a South Bird, and Luffy states that because of all the bugs, they could not catch one. Usopp then notices a South Bird up in a tree and Chopper translates the bird's sounds for the crew. As it turned out, the bird had actually only come there to taunt them, and asks them if they caught anything. The crew is enraged and moves to strike it down, but Robin merely sprouts a pair of hands on the bird and knocks it to the ground, cutting short its laughter. The Straw Hats then head back to the Saruyama Alliance headquarters.
Arriving there, the Straw Hats discovers Cricket, Masira, and Shoujou beaten up, and the Going Merry ruined. Sanji and Chopper wonder who did this, and help Shoujou out of the water, while Luffy asks Cricket what happened. Cricket says that they have to enhance the ship before dawn, and tells Luffy not to worry about it. Cricket asks if they have a South Bird, and as they reply yes, Nami tells them that the gold was taken. The crew is stunned, but Cricket tells them that that is something to forget about. Usopp then interrupts him, saying that Cricket spent ten years finding the gold and even lost his health to do so. However, Cricket says that it is not a problem, and says that with the entire Saruyama Alliance, they will be able to fix the ship and send them to the sky, no matter what. Usopp is surprised, but Zoro suddenly notices and shows Luffy a mark on the side of a tree, which Nami recognizes as Bellamy's symbol. Zoro asks if Luffy needs help, but he declines, and Nami says that they need to stop fooling around, as there are only three hours before dawn. Luffy then asks Robin if he can reach Mock Town by running along the shore, and she tells him yes. Cricket tries to stop him, but Zoro says that he will need a sword to do so. Luffy departs, saying he will be back before dawn.

A local drunkard is taking a leak in the ocean, before noticing a new bunch of bounties coming in. Looking through the wanted posters, he finds two that he immediately recognizes: Luffy and Zoro, who were publicly humiliated only this afternoon before at their mention of Sky Island. However, when he sees how high Luffy's bounty is, he is struck with horror, as it is not 30,000,000 anymore, but 100,000,000!
Meanwhile, with Nami's warning about Sky Island's deadline ringing in his ears, and the memories of Cricket flashing through his mind, Luffy dashes towards Mock Town to get Cricket's gold back.
In Mock Town, the Bellamy Pirates are celebrating their find, as well as mocking the Saruyama Alliance, until the drunkard rushes in. When he spots Bellamy, he warns him that he needs to get out of town at once before he is killed. When Bellamy asks who would dare to threat him, the drunkard tells the entire bar of the bounties. This is enough to strike them with terror, as both of them have bounties higher than Bellamy's 55,000,000 bounty.
However, this only makes Bellamy laugh. Then, he berates the entire bar, as he believes that the posters are forgeries made by them in order to scare them. This causes the bar to calm down, until the enraged call of Luffy shocks them again.
Bellamy walks out to see who is calling, until he sees Luffy on a building. When Luffy tells him that Bellamy is to return the stolen gold, Bellamy uses his Bane Bane powers to get up on the roof as well. He tells him that since he stole the gold, it's rightfully his, but Luffy tells him that he's stealing it back.
Bellamy continues to mock Luffy, as the drunkard is more and more distressed, but Sarquiss tells him to knock it off, starting to doubt that even Luffy's 30,000,000 bounty was real. Bellamy wonders how Luffy is supposed to fight, or if he's just going to stand around like their last encounter. When Luffy tells him that the last time was different, Bellamy starts off the brawl by using his powers to jump off the building and crack the tower in two.
Bellamy lands on another building, and readies his Spring Snipe to do Luffy in. He hits the top of the tower, which sends Luffy crashing down on the ground. As Luffy gets up, Bellamy uses his ultimate move, Spring Hopper, which people comments was exactly the same move he used against Roshio.
As Bellamy continues to bounce around, he continues to mock Luffy, as well as mocking all the dreamers as well. This enrages Luffy, whom asks Bellamy if he asked Luffy if he knew how to throw a punch, while cracking his knuckles. As Bellamy moves in for the kill, Luffy punches his cheek with extreme force, knocking Bellamy down to the floor, ending the fight with only one punch.

In Mock Town, Luffy had just defeated Bellamy with a single, powerful punch. Onlookers are stunned to see the mighty Bellamy taken out so easily. As Bellamy lies unconscious with a fist imprinting in his face, Sarquiss tells him to get up and fight. Luffy however, simply stands over Bellamy, who does not move. Sarquiss yells again, telling Bellamy to not be stupid and to give off the usual show. He says that he is the super rookie with a bounty of 55,000,000. Just then, a piece of paper blows into Sarquiss' face, which is then shown to be Luffy's bounty poster detailing his bounty of 100,000,000. The man who had told the Bellamy Pirates that both Zoro and Luffy has higher bounties than Bellamy says he is right, making everyone afraid of Luffy. Luffy then asks for Cricket's gold back. However, most of the pirates, having seen Luffy's real strength, runs away, screaming about Bellamy's defeat.
Back at the Saruyama Alliance headquarters, the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates works with the Saruyama Alliance to fix the Going Merry and prepare it for the journey to Sky Island. Nami asks Zoro why he did not accompany Luffy, but Zoro simply asks why Nami is changing her mind on whether Zoro and Luffy should fight so much. She says that Zoro was defeated before, but Zoro simply replies that the Bellamy Pirates did not want to get in his way, and that a fight that you will feel sorry about afterwards is painful. The crew then starts arguing and get back to work on the ship.
Back in Mock Town, Luffy, having found the stolen gold, walks out of a bar. Sarquiss, thinking that Luffy just got lucky, challenges Luffy, saying that he would not lose to a dream-chasing idiot. He asks Luffy where he is going, but when Luffy turns around, Sarquiss falls to the ground in fear. However, Luffy simply points up and says "sky" indicating that he is going to Sky Island.
The day before, at noon, on an unknown island, Buggy and his crew are in a cave looking for treasure left behind by a legendary pirate. Mohji asks Buggy if they are at the right place, and Buggy says that it is correct. He adds that wherever there is treasure, there are bound to be guardians and traps for it. He is saying that they must be prepared to lose their lives, when a light suddenly comes on, revealing several miners who are coming down the tunnel. Buggy, Mohji, and Cabaji start chipping away at the rock, saying that sweating is such a pleasure. However, when the boss of the miners says that the rum will taste good when they are done, Buggy explodes in a fit of rage, asking what kind of sweat he wants them to shed.
Back on board their ship, Mohji tells Buggy that they cannot find the treasure, and Cabaji tells Mohji that Buggy must have mistaken the island for another. Cabaji says that Buggy must be upset, and does not want his face to turn red, making Buggy become enraged again. Mohji says that two of the Straw Hats have bounties of 100,000,000 and 60,000,000, and they are already famous pirates on the Grand Line. Buggy says that there is nothing to worry about, and says that witches fatten the kids before eating them. Mohji then realizes that the higher Luffy's bounty is, the higher Buggy's bounty will be when he defeats him. To celebrate the intelligence of their captain, the crew decides to party until nighttime, but Alvida tells the crew not to be so noisy, and says that if they cannot take care of Luffy if they do not know where he is. Buggy tells her not worry, and when an unknown person says that he can provide information, Buggy turns to him. Buggy then realizes that he does not know who the person is, and asks of his name. The figure, who is revealed to be Portgas D. Ace, says that he was attracted by a strong scent is sorry for interrupting the party. Buggy asks him who he is, and that he does not care about his overly inflated ego, but some of his crew members then inform his that Ace is the infamous "Fire Fist Ace", commander of Whitebeard's second division. Ace is happy to hear that they know about Whitebeard, but then suddenly falls asleep, surprising the crew. Mohji encourages Buggy to attack Ace, saying that if he does, they will become famous, but Buggy is against the idea, saying that they cannot fight against Whitebeard's men. Buggy says that Whitebeard is the only who tied in a fight against Gold Roger, and is the strongest man in the world and the one closest to One Piece. Buggy says that Whitebeard hates his friends getting hurt, and when Alvida comments that Buggy knows him well, Buggy states that when he first entered the Grand Line, he met him head-on. Ace then wakes up and says that it is cool that Buggy knows Whitebeard personally. Ace asks if it is a party, and Buggy, seeing the rare occasion, throws a big party. Ace then has Richie jump through a ring of fire.
At the Holy Land of Mary Geoise, it is revealed that Shanks had sent a messenger to Whitebeard, creating tension in the World Government. The Five Elders discusses the issue of Shanks, saying that he is not one to change the world single-handedly, and that they need to find a successor to Crocodile's position in the Seven Warlords of the Sea in order to maintain the balance of power. A Marine reports that they have summoned the Seven Warlords for this matter, but are not sure how many will come, as one of the Five Elders states that Luffy cannot be forgiven either for defeating Crocodile. Marine Headquarters then alert Mary Geoise that two of the Seven Warlords of the Sea, Bartholomew Kuma and Donquixote Doflamingo have arrived.

At Mary Geoise, two Marines are fighting. One states he has no control of himself, and that his hands are moving by themselves. Vice Admiral Tsuru tells the Warlord Doflamingo to stop. After being asked to stop with his antics, Doflamingo takes matter further by having the two Marines draw their swords ready to kill each other.
Just then, Sengoku walks into the room and states that he is being formal but refers to Donflamingo as "sea scum", which Kuma agrees is right on target for the comment about Donflamingo. Surprised that 2 of the 6 remaining Seven Warlords of the Sea came, he starts the meeting. Doflamingo and Sengoku exchange comments on the success of pirating. Just then, Mihawk arrives, commenting on the behavior of the Marines and other Warlords he has heard from outside the room. Doflamingo states Mihawk was the least expected person to show up and Mihawk replies he is merely a bystander as this meeting is about pirates of interest to him.
Just then they are interrupted by another person, a silhouette of a man is seen greeting himself as a observer also, but stating he wishes to take part in the meeting. He is identified by Vice Admiral Tsuru as Laffitte, a policeman who was renowned for his violent ways and exiled from the West Blue. He states he wishes to put forward his captain's name for nomination of the Seven Warlords of the Sea.
Somewhere in the Grand Line, on board a ship belonging to Whitebeard, a guest arrives. Rockstar greets himself as a rookie, but asks a member of the Whitebeard Pirates if he had ever heard of the pirate Rockstar, to which he receives the reply of "no". Whitebeard tears up a letter for him from Shanks, Rockstar's captain. Whitebeard is angry Shanks sent him a letter and tells Rockstar his captain must come in person and bring plenty of good rum.
Elsewhere, Shanks talks on a Den Den Mushi to Rockstar. Shanks laughs about how the old man has not changed a bit. He denies Rockstar the chance to redeem his honor against the Whitebeard crew and is ordered back. Benn Beckman questions his captain over whether they should go to Whitebeard or not. Shanks replies, the crew should prepare for battle.
At the Marines' and Seven Warlords of the Sea's meeting, the name of "Teach" is put forward by Laffitte. He is told that because he is an unknown pirate, he is of little value to them. But Laffitte states they are working on that and to remember the name of the Blackbeard Pirates.
At Mock Town, Blackbeard and his crew makes their move. Sarquiss knocks into Teach and rudely tells him off for it, to which Teach replies by slamming his head into the ground. They state they've been waiting for someone worth 100,000,000 to chase for a while.

Nami is frustrated that Luffy hasn't returned, indicating that he's 46 minutes late and they won't make the Knock Up Stream in time if he doesn't hurry. She resolves that he's probably late because he didn't think about how carrying the gold would affect his time, but Sanji and Usopp are in agreement that calculating time is something Luffy would never consider. Chopper suggests that he could have been beaten, to which Nami replies she'd never forgive him for even if he was on time. Just then Luffy returns, proudly holding up a hercules beetle (that he aptly named Hercules), confusing everyone present. He is then awestruck at the newly refitted Going Merry, furthering Nami's annoyance with him. After returning Mont Blanc Cricket's gold to him, he urges the Straw Hats to hurry to the ship. Luffy tries to thank him for the ship, but Cricket tells him to thank Masira and Shoujou instead. Luffy does so and offers them Hercules, much to their appreciation. They however also urge him to hurry to the ship, as time is limited. As Luffy runs to the ship, Cricket reflects on all the times that the "City of Gold" has been laughed off as his ancestor's imagination. He then shouts to the Saruyama Alliance not to screw this up, and to give it their all for Straw Hats. Luffy smiles at this, and finally boards the ship to set sail. As they prepare to head off, Cricket tells Luffy that one thing is certain: No one has ever proven that the City of Gold and Sky Island do not exist. He then wishes the Straw Hats a safe adventure, and they finally depart.
Aboard the Blackbeard Pirates raft, they are still in search of Luffy. Blackbeard mentions how Luffy indicated he's going to Sky Island, and that they must catch him before then or it will be tough to track him down.
Masira and Shoujou remind everyone that is 7:00 a.m., and they should be reaching their destination around 11 a.m. Reiterating how the Knock Up Stream's exact location is different every time, they emphasize that they must get there early to search for its exact position. They try to explain further how Luffy's tardiness impacted this, but they notice he is not paying attention, fooling around with the south bird. He keeps turning the bird's head to see if it will stay in a different direction other than south, but to his amusement, it keeps springing its neck to face south. It gets highly annoyed at Luffy's antics and tells him (translated by Chopper) that he will turn a different direction to throw the pirates off. He turns north, but he is clearly straining himself to do so, and eventually has to face south again, causing more laughs from Luffy and Usopp. Luffy's carefree attitude about their schedule annoys them slightly, but they agree that worrying about it will do them no good and they press on.
3 hours later, they notice the Millenium Cumulonimbus cloud approaching them from the southwest. It is an hour early, but the Saruyama Alliance takes the necessary action regardless, and sends their scuba divers in to search for the stream. Shoujou uses his sonar ability to evaluate their surroundings. There is a strong sea current directly ahead (12 o'clock), a Sea King directly to their right (9 o'clock), and slightly to the northwest (10 o'clock) there are giant waves, indicative of a large whirlpool. Masira exclaims that is it, and tells them to steer in the 10 o'clock direction. He states that the whirlpool and huge waves are a sign of the pending explosion that creates the Knock Up Stream. The tumultuous waters instantly concern the Straw Hats, and Robin asks Nami to check the log pose. Like before, it is pointing straight up to the clouds. Shoujou and Masira both comment on how perfect the conditions are for the Knock Up Stream, and Luffy asks if they can get there. They assure him they can, and begin pulling the ship in the right direction themselves. The whirlpool has now become extremely large, as the brothers tell them that they actually have to make it to the center. This generates mixed reactions from the crew. Nami instantly freaks out, as it was never explained to them that they'd have to travel to the center of a gigantic whirlpool. Chopper seems excited at the prospect of their ship flying through the air, Robin simply comments on the size of the whirlpool, and Sanji promises to protect the ladies. Usopp is freaking out as well and wants to turn back, but Zoro tells him it is too late, as Luffy is extremely excited to finally make it to Sky Island.

As the crew gets closer to the center of the whirlpool, a Sea King emerges to attack them. Even he quickly succumbs to the power of the whirlpool however, terrifying Nami, Chopper, and Usopp while Luffy looks on unfazed. Masira and Shoujou wish the crew luck, as Usopp and Nami frantically try to get them to bring them back away from the whirlpool. They notice that the whirlpool is actually sucking them in now, and then turn their complaints to Luffy. They try to convince Luffy that the whirlpool alone is deadly enough and the Sky Island is just a fantasy, but to their horror, this only excites Luffy further. He tells them that if they were to miss an adventure like that, they'd regret it for the rest of their lives. As they sulk in acknowledgement of their failure, Zoro points out what has been happening during their fruitless efforts: the ship is now completely airborne, and about to plummet to the center of the whirlpool. Just as it falls however, the whirlpool seemingly disappears.
While they wonder how a whirlpool that large could just disappear, Nami notices something: the whirlpool has actually gone into the seabed. As they contemplate this new revelation, Usopp, Luffy, and Zoro notice the Blackbeard Pirates approaching them from the rear. Nami remembers him from Mock Town, while Sanji doesn't recognize him. Blackbeard announces that he's here to collect Luffy's 100,000,000 bounty, while the Saruyama Alliance ponders who he is from a distance.
Blackbeard wonders why it is only dark where they are, while a puzzled Luffy is questions this bounty, which confirms Blackbeard's suspicions that he was unaware of it but nonetheless reveals Luffy's bounty increase while also announcing Zoro's bounty. Usopp looks through his binoculars and confirms, informing Zoro that he's become a wanted pirate as well. Sanji asks Usopp to look again in hopes that there is one for him too, but he coldly tells the cook there isn't one, greatly disappointing him. Luffy is overjoyed at the new bounty, while Zoro casually smiles at his, wishing the amount was larger. Nami herself wonders what role Arabasta's events played in this, and tells Luffy and Zoro not to get cocky. Shoujou and Masira yell for them to stay focused, as the Knock Up Stream is approaching. Just then, the water beneath the Going Merry begins to swell and rise. Blackbeard is confused, and the Straw Hats all frantically look for a place to hide or something to grab on to. There is a massive explosion beneath them, and the Knock Up Stream finally emerges. It immediately blasts the Going Merry into the air but utterly destroys the Blackbeard Pirates' raft in the process.
Mont Blanc Cricket watches the Knock Up Stream from a distance, and breathes a sigh of relief. The stream is shown to extend all the way into the sky, above the clouds.  The Straw Hats are still struggling to brace themselves as they ride the stream upward, while Shoujou and Masira cheer them on to Sky Island. The Straw Hats are confused by what is causing them to sail vertically upward, and Nami wonders if it is the wind. Sanji notices that the ship is slowly losing contact the with the stream itself, and points out that they will eventually get blown off if this continues. The crew isn't sure what can be done about this, as they are having enough trouble just holding on to the ship. To make matters worse, the Sea King from earlier emerges from the stream and falls towards them, among other debris that had fallen victim to the stream's power. Sanji further deduces that they will end up like that sooner or later if they don't do something, setting off a flurry of mixed reactions from the crew. In the midst of the chaos, Nami tells the crew to release the sails. They are confused by this, but Nami explains that this is no mere stream that they are sailing on: this is the sea itself, and they are riding a current, it just so happens to be going vertically upwards. She continues to explain that the water vapors from the explosion below are actually creating an updraft of air for them to ride. Since their opponents are the wind and sea, they will conquer them sailing by on in their faces. She concludes by reminding them all who's the crew's Navigator, reaffirming their trust in her ability.
Nami directs the crew to align the ship to be parallel to the stream itself. Sanji tells them to use the wind to help align the ship, but also actually picks Luffy up and throws him in into the deck of the ship for additional momentum. Chopper however points out that the ship has almost lost contact with the stream, and is falling. He implores Nami to come up with another plan, but she says there is no need. The Going Merry completely drifts off the Knock Up Stream, but with the sails released, and new wings as part of its refit, the ship begins to fly along the stream. The crew is amazed at the ability of the ship and Nami's navigation skills, with Sanji fawning excessively. Nami states that as long as they follow this wind and stream, they can make it anywhere. Luffy asks Nami when they'll make it there. She isn't sure, but the crew is finally approaching the Millenium Cumulonimbus cloud, and she believes it should be beyond there. Luffy wonders what will be on top of the cloud when they get there, as the Going Merry finally begins to enter the clouds.

The Straw Hat crew find it difficult to breathe, as they reach what seems to be a sea in the sky, made of clouds. Meanwhile, the Blackbeard Pirates discuss about the Straw Hats getting away on the remnant of their raft that was destroyed by the Knock Up Stream. Burgess insists that they chase after the Straw Hats, but their captain assures them that they will meet again, so long as they both stay in the Grand Line.
Once they get used to the atmosphere, the Straw Hats are astonished by the scenery on the cloud sea. Chopper interrupts the crew to tell them that Usopp isn't breathing and then proceeds to perform CPR on him. Meanwhile, Nami comments that the log pose is still pointing up to which Robin replies that maybe they are only the middle part of the millennium cumulonimbus. Usopp decides to go for a swim to which Sanji advises against as they still don't know anything about the sea of the sky, but ignores him and dives anyways. While on his dive, Usopp is surprised by the little resistance of the sea of the sky and comments on how it is very blurry. He then decides to dive even deeper.
Back on the ship, the crew notice that Usopp has not returned yet. Robin expresses concern and questions if there really is a sea floor in the sea of the sky. This leads to them to deducing that Usopp fell off the cloud. Luffy stretches his arm into the clouds to save Usopp, but says that he can only rely on his sense of touch since he cannot see through the clouds to which Robin assures him that she will handle it. She uses her devil fruit ability to make eyes sprout out all over Luffy's hand and the rest of his arm as well. Through the combination of their devil fruit abilities, they manage to grab Usopp and pull him back on to the ship. Following Usopp though, come a giant octopus and a sea monster who try to attack the ship, but Zoro immediately slices one of the arms of the octopus off and then Sanji joins in, defeating them. Robin takes interest in a fish that ended up on the Merry. She states that the fish is actually a sky fish, a strange creature described in Noland's diary and assumes that because there is no sea floor in the sky ocean, the sky fish must have evolved in various forms in order to survive. As a result, some sky fish became flat and some became like balloons in order to make themselves lighter due to the buoyant force in the sky ocean being much weaker than in sea water. Nami also adds that the sky fish's scales look like feathers and that its carnivorous mouth is weird. While they were still talking, Luffy snatches the sky fish and has Sanji saute it. Luffy takes a bite of it exclaims that it was delicious, but Nami yells at him, saying that they were not done with it yet. Nami then takes the food and tries it for herself.
While most of the crew is focused on the sky fish dish, Chopper notices in the distance another ship and, what appears to be a human, attacking and destroying it. Before the panicked Chopper manages to explain the situation to his crew mates, the masked man comes, seemingly running on the clouds, and attempts to attack the Merry. Luffy, Zoro and Sanji attempt to fight the attacker, but are quickly overwhelmed. Nami calls out to the three, asking what is wrong with them while Usopp continuously mumbles that Sky Island is scary. Just when the attacker is about to finish off the crew with his cannon, another mysterious individual appears. He thrusts his lance at the attacker which sends the latter flying into the sky sea. Nami cries asking who it is now. The mysterious savior reveals himself. An old man, wearing armor and riding a huge bird. He introduces himself to the Straw Hats as "The Knight of the Sky".

Nami scolds the Monster Trio (Luffy, Sanji, and Zoro) for being useless. Chopper thanks Gan Fall for helping them, but Gan Fall says it is his duty. Luffy says that he is unable to move normally and Robin states it is because of the scarce oxygen present in the place. Gan Fall asks the Straw Hats if they are citizens of Blue Sea, and explains that an average citizen of Blue Sea cannot stand here. He informs the Straw Hats that the White Sea is filled with a lot of danger and he would help them only if they pay him 5,000,000 for each call made by them through the whistle. He also states that the Knock Up Stream wasn't the only way to come up, making Nami cry over the difficulty she has had. He asks the Straw Hats if they lost any crew members and states that they are very brave to come here through such a dangerous method, earning his respect. He departs from the scene after giving the Straw Hats a whistle to call him.
Robin remarks that they have not found any information relating to Sky Island. The crew then comes across a waterfall, they then sail to it until realizing it is blocked by a big cloudbank. Luffy decides to investigate the cloudbank. Luffy finds it is bouncy, saying it is soft like cotton, which makes Nami ponder about the phenomenon. He notices a huge door on the other side and Straw Hats check it out. They come across a door that is named as Heaven's Gate, in which an old lady, whom she calls herself the "Watcher of the Gate", appears and asks them to pay a fee to access the island, though she states that it is not compulsory to pay the money. After the Straw Hats refuse to pay the fee, the sea's speedy shrimp carries Going Merry to the island. Meanwhile, the gatekeeper is seen reporting to a "god" and his priests about seven pirate interlopers.

The Straw Hat Pirates travel up a line of clouds shaped like a river and reach the entrance to the Sky Island "Godland Skypiea". They fly into the Sky Island propelled by the river and look with amazement at the buildings and clouds shaped like a sea. The crew reaches the beach and Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper jumps off the ship and run off as fast as they can to the beach to explore the surrounding area.
Zoro asks about dropping the anchor where he comments that it would be impossible since the sea is bottomless, but Luffy does not care at all so Zoro drops it anyway. Sanji gets caught in the fun and heads to the beach. Then Nami is being attacked by the south bird which they forgot to release and it leaves. Zoro understands that the beach is the island's structural basis. Robin states that she has not thought of a landing being so adventurous, while Nami notices that the name of the island is the same as that form the map Luffy found.
Luffy gets really excited that the island is filled with scent of adventure. Nami thinks that she can relax for a while without having trouble with the Marines while Sanji examines the flowers of the island. Luffy sees a strange pumpkin-like fruit and tries to bite into it, but it is too hard and offers the fruit to Usopp while Zoro, now out of the ship, questions whether it is really clouds they are on since his feet are wet. Sanji offers Nami a flower while she ignores him and checks out sofas made of clouds with Chopper. Then music begins to play and a small fox appears, which Zoro comments on seeing it, and Sanji points out a person on a hill far back. Usopp comments that is may be a raider, but Sanji shouts out that it's an Angel because of the wings and harp. The "angel", which is a beautiful woman, turns towards them, salutes them and approaches them.
She asks them if they are from the Blue Seas to which Luffy informs her that they came from flying up from below. Then she informs them that this place is known as Angel Beach of Skypiea Island and asks Luffy if he would like to drink from the fruit, called Conache, which he tried to bite into earlier. She cuts open the fruit which Luffy drinks from and comments how good it tasted. After opening the fruit, she introduces herself as Conis, a box also informs the reader that the fox seen earlier is named Su, and says that she can help them if they have any problems. Nami says to her that there are many things she wants to know about the island and comments on how unbelievable everything is.
Then the Straw Hats notice a man coming from the sea. Conis says that he is her father riding a waver. He crash lands and asks if anyone is hurt which Zoro remarks that he should be asking himself that question. The Waver is explained by Nami from Noland's diary that it is a boat which can sail without wind. After asking his daughter Conis if the Straw Hats are her friends, she informs him that they are from the Blue Seas. He then tells the crew that they are in the White-White Sea and introduces himself as Pagaya. Pagaya tells the Straw Hats that he just finish fishing in the White White Sea shows them the Sky Lobsters, a delicious sea food in white sea. The Straw Hats are invited to his home, while Nami asks the reason why the Waver sails without wind. Conis states that it is because of dials and asks Nami if she knows what a dial is.

Pagaya allows Luffy to ride on his waver, which Luffy stands on it and finds the accelerator for it. It starts up at a high speed which Luffy cannot control and because of the lack of control, he flips and lands in the sea of clouds. Sanji and Zoro believe that that Luffy's devil fruit weakness will not affect him since the sea of clouds appears different than the normal sea, but is quickly proven wrong once Luffy begins to sink into the sea. Once Zoro saves Luffy, Sanji and Zoro began arguing as Pagaya explains that to ride a waver well that it takes years of practice. However, Nami begins riding the waver and can easily control it despite never had ridden one previously and continues riding while the other does to Pagaya's house.
As the others walk up a long flight of stairs, Pagaya asks Zoro if they went through the milky road in order to arrive here and begins explains that it is in fact an artificial cloud channel. He further explains the two natural cloud types: sea clouds and island clouds (which can be compared to land and sea) as well as the reason for the abnormality which is because of the substance called pyrobloin from the mineral, seastone. Continuing his explanation, the two types of clouds are made of pyrobloin which is ejected from volcanoes and makes contract with water in the air. Also, he says that the milky road is made by the cutting factory and adjustmenting the substance's molecules.
Everyone reaches the top of the flight of stairs as well as Pagaya's house. Inside the house, Robin asks what are the dials, which they also discover that there are multiple dials for everyday tasks and appliances, are able to power the waver which Conis explains how the Wind dial works to power the waver. After hearing this, Luffy wants a waver. Usopp replies that they already have one, but it is 200 years old and probably cannot function anymore. However, Conis informs them, that as long as the dial shell is intact, the waver can still function. In the kitchen, Sanji finishes cooking and brings it out for everyone to eat; however, he notices that he cannot see Nami outside anywhere. Luffy said not to worry about it, although Conis and Pagaya are nervous about her whereabouts. They then explain that there is an area where no one should never go which is near the island called Holy Island which is where the God lives, but it seems that Nami has reached the island.

Luffy is very much intrigued by the forbidden place, where God resides. While the Straw Hat Pirates eat the dinner their hosts offered, they realize that Luffy will go on that place, one way or another, but first they decide to go find Nami. Pagaya offers to take a look at their waver since he is a dial boat technician.
Meanwhile, Nami has reached a piece of land with huge trees, when she hears a noise. Fearing this place could be dangerous, she is about to turn away, when she senses someone behind her. Suddenly, a man comes running desperately out of the forest, chased by another man and his giant dog. As the dog is about to attack the running man, another person arrives, riding a bird, and intercepts him. After kicking the dog away, the man tries to attack the escapee himself, but is in turn stopped by yet another pursuer. Seeing the ruckus, the man, standing behind Nami, shoots with his bazooka straight towards the four men, causing a huge explosion. Once the smoke clears, the desperate man notices Nami and begs her to take him on her boat and help him escape, offering anything in return. Before he manages to finish his plea though, he gets struck by, what seems to be, a lightning strike. The man with the bazooka wonders if that was caused by Enel and decides to retreat.
The three pursuers, joined by a fourth man, seem to be actually allies, as they are seen discussing casually about the incident. The fourth man informs the rest that seven illegal trespassers from the blue sea, have recently entered their territory. Nami is eavesdropping the discussion and, realizing the trespassers are none others than herself and her crew mates, she fears that the same fate might be awaiting them, too.
Back on Angel Beach, the police force of Skypiea, the White Berets arrive, lead by Captain McKinley, to investigate the illegal trespassing incident. When they arrive at the shore, they notice a ship. Luffy, who was working, along with Pagaya, on the Waver, sees them and wonders who they are.

The White Berets crawl cautiously towards Luffy, much to his surprise and his crew's concern. McKinley reveals a photo of the Straw Hats taken by Amazon, which confirms that they are the illegal trespassers. While Pagaya tries to reason with them and the others wonder what this is all about, McKinley assures them that their crime is not so serious (class 11) and that if they pay a fine of ten times the entry fee, they can go back to be considered regular tourists. That still seems a lot for the Straw Hats to pay, so they try to negotiate.
At that time Nami arrives at the beach. When she gets informed by Usopp about the fine, she gets so mad that she drives her Waver straight on McKinley's face, sending him flying. Pagaya warns Luffy and his crew that they are in danger, to which they agree and decide to make a run for it. A bloodied McKinley stops them, announcing that their crime is now of class 5 and sentences them to drifting cloud, a small cloud that drifts in the sky with no chance of getting off, in other words a death penalty. The White Berets proceed to attack the crew, using cloud arrows and dials, but Luffy, Zoro and Sanji manage to defeat them relatively easy. McKinley, though, warns them that they have now become class 2 criminals and that they will now be judged by the relentless Priests of Upper Yard.

The Straw Hat Pirates talk their situation out, trying to find a solution, while Pagaya and Conis sadly announce that they cannot help them anymore, since they are wanted men. Luffy calms everyone, stating that, either way, they are used to being chased by the authorities. He then argues with Nami about whether they should go to the forbidden land or not.
Zoro interrupts the argument, wondering if there is actually a way to return to the Blue Sea. Conis explains that right now there is no safe route for them to follow, but they can return to the White Sea, head towards the clouds' end. As they decide to set sail, Luffy asks for food supplies and Usopp for some tools to repair the ship. Little did they know, that Luffy had not given up on the idea of going to the forbidden land. Although Nami keeps protesting, they all know that if Luffy sets his mind on something, he will do it no matter what.
As Sanji prepares the lunch boxes and Usopp gathers his tools, they notice the ship being dragged in the sea, against their crew mates will, by a giant shrimp, accompanied by sea monsters, to assure the criminals will not escape. Pagaya explains that the ship is taken to the sacrificial altar, the northeast portion of Upper Yard, where they will either be sacrificed to the God, or be simply trialed. In other words, the ship and people in her are taken hostages, and it is the ones left behind who have to go through a series of trials, in order to save them.
After explaining the way to get there, Pagaya warns Luffy that apart from the quite strong priests, God Enel himself resides on Upper Yard, too.

Conis takes Luffy, Sanji and Usopp to the city of Angel Island; they notice that the citizens try to avoid them or regard them suspiciously, because they are considered criminals. While walking on the street, they come across a statue that symbols vearth, the idol of the citizens of the sky. As they leave the city to head to the port, McKinley is seen following them in secret.
Upon arriving at the port, Luffy gets excited by all the strange shaped boats, but is disappointed when Conis presents them the ship they will be taking, Karasumaru. After getting directions on how to reach the milky road, Luffy notices Conis is trembling in fear or anxiety. Conis reveals that taking them there could be a trap, instead of letting them rejoin the rest of the crew. She caves in and, despite the other citizens' warnings, admits that she was the one who called for the super-express speedy shrimp; fearing that if she didn't, her own life would be in danger. Seeing her cry and beg for forgiveness, Luffy scolds her, not for betraying them, but for revealing the truth to them and putting her life on the line once again.
As Luffy finishes his sentence, a huge lightning bolt comes from the sky, right on the spot he and Conis were standing. Once the smoke clears up, the citizens mutter about what happen, and one claims that, no one can escape the god Enel's wrath. Fortunately, Conis and Luffy were saved at the last minute by the Knight of the Sky, revealed to be called Gan Fall, the previous God of Skypiea.
As Gan Fall drops Luffy back to his crew mates, he assures them that he will protect Conis from any harm; and asks them what their plans are, now that they have learned about this island and God's power. Luffy replies that he doesn't want anything to do with God or his island, but he still has to go there to rescue his friends. The three Straw Hats get on the boat and start sailing towards Upper Yard.

Luffy, Sanji, and Usopp are on their way to the Sacrificial Altar which is located in Upper Yard. They are traveling on the milky road in the dial boat given to them by Conis. Sanji is worried about Conis, but Usopp tells him to trust Gan Fall and that she will be safe with him. Luffy is still unhappy about how slow and uncool their boat is but Sanji just tells him to stop being picky.
Soon, they see the entrance to the forest and they are amazed by its size. Sanji comments that it must have taken thousands of years for the trees to grow this huge. Luffy plans to climb the trees while Usopp searches the map for any clue about the forest. As they reach the entrance, Sanji tells them that there is no turning back and asks if they are ready. Usopp wants to say that he is not ready and wants to go back but before he could finish his sentence, Luffy shouts, "Let's go!" The forest looks scary and Usopp is really scared because he feels as if someone is watching them.
While Usopp is still wondering why there are so many ships laying around cut in half, a huge blade that's tied with a chain swings at them. They are saved by a close call but soon they realize there are more of those "scythe monsters" as Luffy describes them. Soon Luffy, Sanji, and Usopp start to paddle really fast as to dodges the rest of the blades. After a great struggle, they dodge all the blades to realize that now they have traveled too far from the entrance. Suddenly, a huge eel-like monster appears before them. Sanji defeats the eel with a single kick but he realizes that there is something that someone is trying to protect and that is why there are so many traps. Soon, they reach at a huge statue-like gate with four paths. The signs on the entrances say "Trial of Swamp", "Trial of Iron", "Trial of String" and "Trial of Orb". They have to pick a path.
Back at Sacrificial Altar, Zoro is having a tough time fighting the sky sharks. Then a shark takes Zoro under the clouds and Robin, Nami, and Chopper start to worry if Zoro had been eaten. But Robin remarks if that happens then the color of clouds would turn red, and Nami tells Robin to stop saying scary things like that. Eventually, Zoro punches the shark and sends it flying.
Zoro says that the shrimp left them at a dangerous place and they cannot go anywhere because there are too many sharks. Nami remarks that despite being a swordsman, Zoro punched the shark, and Chopper finds Zoro incredibly strong. Zoro tells Robin that since the bottom of the Going Merry is smashed, they cannot leave with it. Zoro tells Chopper to start repairing it while he goes in the forest to look for a way out. Zoro tells Nami that Luffy and the others will come here eventually so it is best to stay put, but Nami remarks that he is not the one to talk about being lost. Zoro is eager to meet the God that everyone is talking about but Nami tells him that he cannot and he must apologize to God and pray for forgiveness. Zoro answers that he never prayed to god. Chopper is really amazed by Zoro's response while Nami is praying to God that telling him that she is not associated with Zoro.
Robin asks Zoro if she can join, which Zoro agrees but tells her to stay out of his way. Robin said that the Sacrificial Altar looks thousands of years old and history always makes things exciting. She also says that if they can find some jewels or treasure then it might help them to fix the ship. As soon as Nami hears the word "jewels", she decides to join Zoro and Robin and her excuse was that she is interested in history which Chopper finds a complete lie. Soon Zoro and Robin cross the river by swinging on vines but when it comes to Nami's turn, she was scared by the height, but by gathering some courage she jumps but only to find out that she is going too fast. Robin slows her by using her Devil Fruit powers. They leave the Sacrificial Altar, and Zoro tells Chopper that they are trusting him to repair the ship. Chopper is telling himself that he did not go because he was scared and he would rather stay here on the ship alone. Then it hits him that he is the one in the most danger.

The four priests of God discuss the Class 2 crime the Straw Hat Pirates committed, and prepare for their punishment.
As Luffy, Sanji and Usopp sail along the milky road, they arrive at a point where their route splits between four doors leading to a respective trial, each one bearing a name: Orb, String, Iron and Swamp. Luffy, casually suggests the trial of Orb, and the other two agree.
As they enter the door, they go through a dark and long corridor. Luffy jokes about them picking the wrong door, and when they finally reach the exit, they start falling. Believing they have fallen off Sky Island, the three panic, but they land on what seems to be a continuation of the milky road, which leads them into a forest filled with various sized cloud orbs.
As the three of them continue sailing, they get attacked by a giant snake, but Luffy sends it flying. Shortly afterwards, a large white orb blocks their path; when Sanji attempts to remove it by kicking it, the orb explodes in their faces.
Suddenly, a voice is heard, explaining that these clouds are called "surprise orbs", and no one can predict what will appear from inside them. A man appears, and introduces himself as Satori, one of Enel's priests. Sanji asks him if the rest of the crew are alright; he replies that he doesn't know, but even if they manage to escape custody, they would still end up dead. When Luffy tries to attack him, Satori predicts the attack and avoids it, before striking Luffy in the face with an impact dial attached to his palm. Sanji attacks him as well, but his moves are predicted by the priest again, by a power called Mantra. Usopp tries to fight, but gets beaten up as well.
Satori sends the boat, the Straw Hats' only means of reaching the sacrificial altar, sailing along the milky road. He then goes on to explain the trial of orb, stating that it has a survival rate of 10%.

Luffy, Sanji, and Usopp are amazed by the priest's power, who taunts them, telling them they have to hurry and beat him in order to catch up with their boat. Luffy sends the other two to find the Karasumaru, saying that he will take care of their enemy. He attacks Satori, but his moves get predicted again, and he is easily defeated. Satori turns his attention to Usopp and Sanji, attacking them with his orbs and stalling them, until Luffy returns to the fight. Luffy's punches not only miss their target, but hit all the nearby floating orbs, setting off all their hidden surprise traps at once.
During the attack, Usopp finds the time to use his rope weapon to reach the boat; while this reaches the boat, it is not entirely successful, as he forgot to detach the rope from his belt, and is dragged along underneath. Satori lands a very powerful attack with an impact dial on Sanji's chest, stating that the other two are next.
Meanwhile, back on Going Merry, Chopper has been left alone to guard her; when one of Enel's priests, Shura, arrives to collect the sacrifices, Chopper panics, blowing the whistle to summon Gan Fall, the Knight of the Sky, in a desperate call for help.

Conis and Pagaya have sought refuge in Gan Fall's residence. There, the former God is seen watering his pumpkin crops, while discussing with his guests about the recent events. Gan Fall explains, that those people were pirates from the blue sea, groups that are considered sailing criminals, though he prefers to call them "people that don't follow rules". He goes on about having met another group of pirates, 20 years ago, whom he befriended. Gan Fall expresses his worry about the ongoing conflict between Skypiea and Shandia and reveals that his negotiations, while he was God, had almost bore fruits, but it was then, when Enel invaded the country and assumed control.
As he apologizes about his failure, he remembers an old legend speaking about a beautiful song heard, when God's island was born; a song that signaled the beginning of the war. Gan Fall believes that, when this song is heard once more, that's when the war will, finally, end. All of a sudden, seeing Pierre uneasy, Gan Fall wears his armor and departs.
Back at the ship, Chopper is seen, bruised, trying to put out a fire on the main mast, and begging the attacker to stop. In a desperate move, Chopper breaks the mast right of and throws it in the sea. However, Shura keeps setting fires on the ship, using his lance and states that if Chopper wants to survive, he has to make sacrifices.
Shura explains, that the forest is divided into four territories, each one controlled by a priest, but the altar doesn't belong to any of the said territories. If the invaders survive the trials of the forest and reach the altar then they are free to go. However, since some of the sacrifices broke the rules and left the altar, Shura claims that someone else must pay for it with his life.
As Shura attacks Chopper with his lance, Gan Fall appears. The two men engage into an aerial battle, riding their birds. Shura looks down on Gan Fall, calling him an old man, but the former God, with a swift move, manages to land a dial attack on his opponent, much to Chopper's amazement.

As the battle between Gan Fall and Shura continues, elsewhere, a little girl is shown walking amongst the clouds, when she finally arrives in a village hidden inside the clouds, the village of Shandia. The girl, named Aisa, meets a Shandia warrior there, who warns her that, if she keeps going to Upper Yard, she will end up dead. Meanwhile, the rest of the warriors discuss about Gan Fall's skirmish in Upper Yard, whom, along with Enel, they consider an enemy and hope they take each other out. The masked attacker is revealed to be Wyper, the descendant of the great Shandia warrior, Kalgara.
Zoro, Nami and Robin wonder in the forest, until Robin finds some kind of ruins that pick her interest. Ahead of them lies a river, which they have to cross, if they wish to enter deeper into the forest. Nami watches over the distance with her binoculars and spots the area called Upper Yard.
Back at the altar, Chopper is amazed by the speed in which the two opponents clash. Suddenly, Gan Fall finds it hard to move his body, which got trapped in Shura's ordeal of strings. Unable to move, the dethroned God suffers a fatal wound by the priest's lance, and with his last words, asks Chopper to defeat Enel and his priests, for the sake of all those who have fallen.
At the same time, Pagaya suggest that, he and Conis create something to help the Straw Hat Pirates.

Gan Fall falls defeated into the water and Chopper, in desperation, dives after him to save him, despite being a Devil Fruit user. Fuza, with a hit, sends Pierre to join them. Sure about his victory, Shura decides to go after the other escapees.
Back in the forest, Satori has taken the upper hand in his battle against Luffy, Sanji and Usopp. Luffy attacks the priest but he dodges and sends a dragon made of orbs against his opponent. Usopp takes this chance to try and retrieve their boat. Luffy notices that the dragon is controlled by a rope and he cuts it loose. Satori pulls Luffy with the remaining rope towards him, but Luffy still holds the dragon on the other hand, which he throws on the scared priest, causing a huge chain of explosions.
Satori manages to survive the explosion, but loses his focus, and that's when Luffy appears and grabs him, rendering him unable to move or escape. Sanji, although hurt by the explosions, is determined to pay the priest back, for kidnapping his favorite ladies, regardless of the consequences being that they will become first class criminals. As Luffy still holds on Satori, Sanji delivers a strong kick on his head and finally defeats him.

In the Shandia village, Aisa informs Wyper that she felt, using her Mantra, that two voices have been silenced in the forest. Wyper rejoices and realizes that this is the time for them to act and begin their assault. When Wyper leaves, Aisa reveals to Raki that it wasn't Gan Fall who defeated the priest, but some other very powerful people, who are also in the forest. Raki asks for the girl's purse and when she refuses to give it away, claiming that her treasure is inside, Raki promises to bring more for her.
In the forest, Usopp urges Luffy and Sanji to hurry up, if they want to catch up with their boat. Using Usopp's waist rope, they finally manage to get on board. Nami seems to have discovered something about Upper Yard, and is about to lead Zoro and Robin there to make sure.
While the rest of the priests, using Mantra, acknowledge the defeat of their comrade in the hands of the newcomers, the Shandia warriors have begun their invasion in God's island, led by Wyper who is determined to light the fire of Shandia.
Chopper wakes up back on the Altar and, seeing Gan Fall and Pierre unconscious around him, wonders who saved them from drowning.
Nami's group reach a clearing where they see something familiar. A missing part of a house they saw down on Jaya. This leads them to realize that, Upper Yard was once on the ground, originally a part of the island of Jaya.

Nami thanks God once she finds out that the Sky Island they tried so hard to reach is actually the City of Gold, thinking that it must be God's reward for her "well behaved and disciplined self". When someone asks if she wasn't afraid of "God" on the Island, she responds "Who cares about God!? Is it worth more money than gold!?". Robin remarks that she was thanking God earlier, and Zoro states that she does not know what she's trying to say.
The Shandia continue their invasion of Upper Yard, attacking anything in their path. Luffy, Sanji and Usopp ride the milky road, and notice the human skulls on the plain. Luffy remarks that they are indeed human skulls, and notices that something's coming. Usopp freaks out, and the Shandia appear to attack the group. Wyper fires a cannon ball at them. Luffy jumps and uses Gomu Gomu no Fusen to deflect it. One of the Shandia asks Wyper if they should engage them, to which the latter states that they should ignore them. Sanji notices that one of them is the Masked Raider they met in the White Sea. Wyper then states that they are the citizens of the Blue Sea that caused a racket at Skypiea, and that if they don't want to die, they should go back to the Blue Sea, and warns them to do not try to do anything weird at the Island, otherwise he will treat them like Enel, and eliminate them too. Luffy then asks for a fight, Usopp tells him to not say anything more and Sanji asks if the Shandia and God are really enemies. Wyper remarks that they are going to need to be strong to leave the island alive. Luffy wonders what's their problem, and then the group continues their ride.
Back in Karasumaru, the group enjoys their ride on the Milky Road, and wonder if it's going to be this calm all the way to the altar. As the sun sets, the Shandia and the Priests continue their fight.
The other members of the crew go back to the Going Merry, and notice that the mast is missing. They then call for Chopper. The latter tells them nothing really bad happened and the formers ask for him to tell them what happened. Luffy, Usopp and Sanji then reunite with the others. Chopper tells Usopp what happened to the mast, and then the crew goes to check on Gan Fall. Sanji remarks that in the ship's current condition and the sky getting dark, they must camp there for the night. Each Straw Hat Pirates then reports on the situation and tells the crew the information each one gathered, while Sanji and Chopper take care of Gan Fall. Luffy then states that they will "go and find the gold".

The Shandia have continued their campaign through Upper Yard, but must now halt their progress as Kamakiri has been hurt. Engaged in battle with the priest "Skybreeder" Ohm and his dog Holy, Wyper reluctantly retreats with the rest of the Shandia to treat their wounded. Ohm is prepared to pursue them, but another priest, "Sky Boss" Gedatsu, arrives and tells him that Enel has summoned them. At the Straw Hat's encampment, Luffy is assisting Sanji in preparing a meal for the crew. Watching water boil, he complains about how boring his job is, but Sanji stresses the importance of having water for the crew tomorrow. Just then Zoro and Chopper return from a supply run. Chopper has found bananas, walnuts, aloe, and garlic. Zoro has come back with rats and frogs. Sanji tells them to put it all in the stew, prompting Nami to comment that some weird things going into it. Sanji guesses that she is referring to the garlic, which Nami vehemently denies. Robin then returns as well, holding a blue rock that Nami initially takes for a gemstone. It is actually crystallized salt, much to Sanji's delight. Chopper decides to keep some aloe and garlic for medical treatment and helping the Knight of The Sky, which slightly confuses Zoro, as he assumed Chopper would need the frogs. Sanji then asks Zoro to help out with preparation as well; he has him hold a smoldering rock to place in the stew, much to the latter's annoyance at the use of his swords. Luffy wonders if they're supposed to eat the rock too, as Sanji explains that the heat from the rock helps cook the stew.
As Sanji puts the finishing touches on their meal, Nami has finished creating a map. With the crew gathered and eating, Nami starts by first reviewing what they have learned from Mont Blanc Noland's tale : He traveled to the City of Gold 400 years ago. A few years later he returned in search for the golden city, but it had seemingly vanished without a trace. Most evidence implicates that particular part of the island being blasted into the sky by the Knock Up Stream, but Zoro points out that the animals and vegetation of both islands vary too greatly to have come from the same place. Robin, however, points out that there are much different substances in both environments that impact their growth in drastically different ways. Chopper makes note of the size of the south bird that saved them (compared to the one that got them to Skypiea), to which Sanji questions why they were saved in the first place. Chopper isn't sure, but points out that the birds were referring to the Knight of The Sky as "God". This blows Luffy away, as he immediately associates the actions of Enel with the title and consequently thinks that he has to beat up the Knight of The Sky. This earns him ridicule from Usopp, which eases Pierre's fears that Luffy may actually hurt his master. Nami continues recapping the information Noland's book gave them about the Golden City, including a golden belfry. Robin calls attention to the things Noland wrote on the last page of his diary, more specifically his quote about seeing the gold in the "Skull's Right Eye". Nami is thinking the same thing, and shows the crew what happens she aligns the map Robin found in Jaya, with the ancient map of Skypiea: when combined at the point Mont Blanc Cricket's home splits, the two islands form a skull.
With this new revelation, the "Skull's Right Eye" is shown to be a specific area in Upper Yard. Because the island was still one land mass at the time of Noland's discovery, the logic no longer held true and the riddle was impossible to solve by the time he returned. The crew decides to head for this point the next day, but they cannot leave the Going Merry unattended, so will split into two groups. Robin notices that it is getting late, and suggest putting out the fire so as to not give away their position to the enemy. Luffy calls this idea stupid (greatly shocking Robin), but Usopp tells Luffy to give her the benefit of the doubt in recognition of the dark life she has lived up until now. When Robin inquires what they mean, they explain that you simply have to have a campfire on camping night, even if it means death. Nami attempts to scold the two about how dangerous the forest is, but realizes it is futile when Zoro and Sanji join in by creating a woodpile. Sanji attempts to quell her fears by explaining that the beasts are afraid of fire, but eyes begin to ominously appear from the darkness behind him, only scaring her further. Ironically, she is soon enjoying herself with everyone else: the eyes are revealed to have belonged to wolves, who befriend the crew and dance with them around the campfire.
In the midst of the festivities, the Knight of The Sky finally awakens from his rest. He is greatly amused that the wolves have been tamed, and furthermore that probably no one else would make so much noise in Enel's home. He attempts to apologize that he couldn't be more helpful to the crew, but they denounce this and offer him some food. Luffy and Chopper actually ask him to come dance, much to Zoro's bewilderment (Zoro and Chopper often argue about the former's mobility after medical treatment). Sanji asks him about Conis and Pagaya, and he assures they are safe at his home. His face becomes more serious, and he reveals that he overheard their conversations about Upper Yard's history. He was unaware that the land was once known as Jaya, but nonetheless asks them if they know why Upper Yard is known as the "Holy Land". He goes on to explain to the crew that the ground beneath their feet is rather common to them, but to the people of the sky, it is quite the opposite. Island cloud can nurture plant life, but it cannot give birth to it; thus soil and plant life are not things of the sky. There, they refer to the soil as "vearth", and will forever hold it sacred.
In another area of Upper Yard, there is discord in the Shandia Village over their earlier mission. Wyper is berating Raki for her lack of focus, blaming Kamakiri's injury on his need to save her. She apologizes, and tearfully begs for the small bag that Wyper has snatched from her. She exclaims it is Aisa's treasure, and she promised the little girl she would bring her some Vearth. Wyper counters that is exactly why she couldn't focus. She continues to beg for the bag back, until Kamakiri himself appears and knocks the bag to the ground. He claims that he can still fight, and agrees with Wyper that there is no better time than now to strike with one of the Priests already down. He goes on to say that if they defeat Enel there will no longer be any need to cherish a small bag of Vearth, and the Shandia will finally be able to return to the home that they lost 400 years ago.

Usopp gets up in the middle of the night because he needs to go to the bathroom. While going to the bathroom he hears some noise coming from the Going Merry. However, there is very thick fog, and he can only see a hand holding a hammer. When it is morning, Zoro finds Usopp sleeping near the place he went to the bathroom.
The scene then changes to where Ohm, Gedatsu, and Shura are at God's Shrine. Shura blames Ohm for letting Wyper live, saying that that is the reason why the three have been summoned. The doors to God's Shrine suddenly opens, and the three priests get into a position ready to fight.
From behind Yama asks what they are doing, and states that they are just hopeless. Ohm complains that the other two priests pull him down and that he can't reach his full potential. He then reveals that he is the Priest in charge of the Trial of Iron. Gedatsu states that the other trials are dull, and that his own trial of swamp is the ultimate one.
Yama asserts that this is no time to be fooling around, as this is the place where God lives. All of a sudden, the priests get attacked by someone. It is revealed that this attacker is in fact the God of Skypea, Enel. He states that the Priests are still weak. The Priests are not happy at this attack, but Enel then laughs saying that he was just bored. He also states that the Priests are taking the citizens of the Blue Sea too lightly, and that their target is the gold.
Enel states that the Straw Hat Pirates will most likely start searching for the gold the next day, and that the Shandia will also attack again. Thus, he cancels all the rules he has put in place, and allows the priests to do whatever they want in Upper Yard. When the Priests ask why Enel has had this sudden change of mind to cancel all the rules, Enel replies by saying that Maxim is almost complete, and that they will soon depart to the dream world.
The Straw Hat Pirates notice that the Going Merry appears to have been repaired from its damage, and Usopp asserts that what he saw wasn't a dream after all. This causes the Straw Hats to question if in fact there is someone good on this island helping them. Luffy along with Usopp wonder how the mysterious person could have known how to repair the ship if they had not seen it before.
Nami then makes a plan on how to get the gold. Luffy, Robin, Zoro, and Chopper are a part of the Explore Team, and they will navigate towards the right eye of the skull at the ancient ruin to get the gold. Nami, Usopp, and Sanji will navigate the ship through the island and shore as close to the ruin as possible. Then the teams will meet and leave Sky Island being wealthy pirates.

The Straw Hat Explore Team (Luffy, Zoro, Chopper, and Robin) has wasted no time in having problems. Zoro has already strayed away from the group, and Luffy yells at him that the west is the other way, while actually pointing east. Zoro counters with the logic that the "skull's right eye" must mean that they go right, and the two trade insults. Meanwhile, Robin asks Chopper to tell both of them that they're actually supposed to be going south. They eventually regroup and head off. Chopper comments that he was initially worried the forest would be a dangerous place, but now he thinks it's nothing to worry about (he makes a mental note that he feels safer with the group), prompting Luffy to mention how brave he's being today. Zoro adds that he can relate since nothing came at them when they entered the forest yesterday either, and Chopper feels even better about himself. Unbeknownst to all of them however, a gigantic snake that severely dwarfs them all in size slithers across the forest behind them. Robin muses to herself how strange the group is for being so eager for something bad to happen. At that moment, the giant snake fully emerges in front of them.
Aboard the Going Merry, Usopp has taken it upon himself to act as "captain", and asks Nami to speed up the ship. She responds that the milky road current is too rough, so they just have to rely on the dials to get them through. Usopp then asks Sanji to be his bodyguard, which he coldly replies he will do exclusively for Nami. Nami then remembers that it's time for the Knight of the Sky to get his medicine, and asks Sanji where Chopper kept it. The knight speaks up, and states that his name is Gan Fall. He asks to share a bit of history of the country. He starts by saying that until 6 years ago, he was known as the "God" of Skypiea. This causes Usopp to ask him if he fell on his head, earning him a nasty bite on the head from Pierre. He continues by confirming what the crew had already figured out: Upper Yard first appeared in Skypiea around 400 years ago. Prior to its arrival, Skypiea was a peaceful place where its inhabitants greatly treasured the blue sea items that occasionally washed up via the Knock Up Stream. All the vearth that appeared in Skypiea beforehand had come in this manner, but for something the size of Upper Yard to come up was truly unprecedented. They considered it a true miracle, a Holy Land as a gift from heaven. The land already had its own native residents however, the Shandia, and thus began a war for the Holy Land. In the end the Shandia were forced out, and have since been trying to reclaim what was once theirs. Sanji and Usopp immediately voice their blame on Gan Fall, earning them both a bite on the head from Pierre. However Gan Fall owns up to it and doesn't attempt to shift blame at all. As he pauses to take his medicine, Nami asks him about "God" Enel. He explains that six years ago Enel showed up leading a powerful army, and defeated both God's Army and the Shandia. He took control of Upper Yard from then on, forcing his army into intense labor, though he doesn't know the details. He reaffirms that who "God" is doesn't matter to the Shandia, they only want their homeland. Sanji asks what caused them to attack the crew when they first arrived then, and he explains that they attack God's Army without mercy. They most likely mistook them for militia, since they sometimes attempt to escape on blue sea ships. Gan Fall says he became the "Knight of The Sky" to help people so easily deemed as criminals escape from Enel's sphere of influence. Sanji resolves that Enel is nothing but a tyrant, which freaks Usopp out, as he wonders what Enel can hear. Gan Fall explains that it's actually worse than being a tyrant; he enforces a system that uses various excuses to outlaw people, and then pushes the people of Skypiea to take part in capturing them. This awareness creates fear, which he uses to maintain a control over the population that truly does liken him to a god. Nami frets at how absurd this all is, realizing the City of Gold has gone to a truly incredible place. This sparks more memories of Gan Fall from the crew's discussions the night before, and he asks what gold is.
Back in the forest, the Explore Team prepares to deal with the snake. Luffy yells for them to run away (though he is clearly enjoying himself), Chopper is scared speechless, Robin wonders if the island's environment is the reason for its size, and Zoro prepares to cut it. The snake strikes at them, and they all manage to dodge. The snake does strike a tree however, which completely melts down, and it is revealed the snake has extremely corrosive venom. With this, they decide that running away is the better option, though Luffy again clearly finds the snake is cool. Zoro warns that the venom will instantly kill you, and Luffy tries to get its attention. It focuses on Robin however, and strikes at her. She effortlessly dodges, and creates a makeshift vine to swing herself to safety. Chopper quickly scrambles away (comically running upright on his hind legs in walk point), and Zoro finds himself face to face with the snake next. Zoro comments on how dire this looks, and the snake lunges for him.
Robin is unsure of what to do. She has navigated back to where they were originally, but no one else is there. She wonders if she should wait. Elsewhere, Chopper is in a severe state of panic that he's gotten lost, and cries out for help. In a different location, Zoro wonders where everyone has gone. He quickly resolves that they'll be fine by themselves though, and that he even memorized most of the map: he just needs to go "right". Finally Luffy has also been separated from the group, but he assumed they got lost. He decides that he'll just meet them at the ruins, and since they said it is "to the south", that must mean it is someplace warm.

In a flashback, Gan Fall has come to visit the Shandia in their village. This causes quite the stir, as Wyper is not in the mood to talk. Gan Fall has come to broker an alliance with the Chieftain, which Wyper staunchly rejects. He says that they will never give up fighting for their homeland, and denies the premise that fighting is meaningless, in light of what was done to the Shandia in the past. Gan Fall counters that Upper Yard has now become an essential part of Skypiea, and it is not as simple as just giving the land back. The people of Skypiea have come to be grateful for the land, and he does not wish to punish innocent people. Wyper then demands the heads of one hundred "innocent" people as payment for peace, which the Knight (then "God") cannot accommodate. Unable to reach a compromise, Wyper orders Gan Fall to leave, unless he wants to be killed. Desperate, Gan Fall calls out Wyper's name when he turns to walk away, only infuriating the latter further at the use of his name. Gan Fall simply utters that he loves pumpkin juice, causing Wyper to snap and attack him. An altercation ensues, causing Kamakiri and Braham to be called in to help break it up. Raki is seen watching from a distance, and comments on how a baby Aisa always cries when something terrible happens in the village. She wonders if it is because of Wyper, and Aisa's mother Isa adds that he is always in the center of trouble. Isa is actually afraid of Wyper, and likens him to a demon.
In the present, as Aisa's bag of vearth lays on the ground, Raki asks Wyper what he's done. Wyper silences her, and has Braham cut her off. Wyper announces that they will not get another chance like this, and that anyone who is not ready can stay in the village. When the Shandia are confused by this, he clarifies by asking them if they are willing to step over their fallen comrades. Only those who are willing to do so should come with him, as today is the day he plans to cut off Enel's head.
At God's shrine, Enel discusses his own strategy with what's left of the forces. Along with the remaining 3 Priests, 50 members of God's Army (this includes Yama) have been dispatched. One of the staff members notes that is the entirety of their battle force and wonders if it was worth going all out, but Enel tells him not underestimate anyone. This only confuses them more, and Enel clarifies: the 50 soldiers, along with the priests and himself, makes 54 fighters. There are 20 Shandia entering the forest, 4 Straw Hats that have already entered, and 3 on the Going Merry (he initially counts Gan Fall, but decides against it). This makes a total of 81 fighters in the Survival Game. He asks the advisors to guess how many fighters there will be left after 3 hours, and they are reluctant to comply. One of three doesn't even want to bother trying to guess, but another speaks up and guesses 50. Enel laughs at the optimistic guess, and finally offers his own prediction: after 3 hours, of the 81 fighters currently in the survival game, 5 will be left standing.
The Shandia begin their assault on Upper Yard, but immediately find themselves immobilized by an unseen phenomenon. A voice chides them for the "poses" they are stuck in, as the Priest "Sky Rider" Shura is revealed to be behind their predicament. Shura elaborates that the Shandia have found themselves in the Trial of String, and their survival rate is 3%. Kamakiri realizes it is string cloud that immobilized them, as Shura continues explaining that they are too thin to see or feel. The Shandia were becoming tangled in them the instant they entered the forest, and a silhouette slowly emerges as he states that the clouds have captured all of them except one. Wyper has somehow managed to evade the String Clouds, and Shura readies his bird Fuza for an aerial battle with the Shandia. Shura states that no one can defeat him in the air, as Kamakiri warns Wyper about Shura's heat javelin. To Shura's shock, Wyper actually discards his bazooka at the last second and allows the lance to pierce him. With both hands free, he grabs hold of Shura with one, and places the other on the Priest's chest. He tells the Priest to say his "prayers" to Enel, prompting a boastful response from Shura, as he believes an impact dial isn't enough to defeat him. Wyper informs the Priest that what he has is actually 10 times stronger than that, and activates the reject dial into Shura's chest. The Priest is immediately incapacitated from the tremendous impact, spurting up blood and falling to the ground unconscious. Wyper stands victorious clutching his shoulder from the recoil, as the narrator announces that the survival game is now down to 80 fighters.

Aboard the Going Merry, Gan Fall reveals that he introduced himself to the Straw Hats as a mercenary whey they first met because blue sea dwellers aren't knowledgeable of sky combat. When the crew asks him to explain, the Knight sets up a demonstration. Sanji is given a large hammer, and he's told to try his best to break a small shell that has been placed on top of a barrel in front of him. Usopp warns Sanji to do it gently, saying that he won't forgive the cook if he damages the ship. Gan Fall tells him to do the exact opposite, which infuriates Usopp, yelling at the Knight not to say such things just because the Merry isn't his ship. With that Sanji puts his all into the strike, though to everyone's surprise, neither the barrel nor shell are affected in the least. Nami is visibly intrigued by this, while Usopp admonishes Sanji for a pathetic showing of strength. The shell slowly gives off fumes however, leading Sanji to wonder if it mysteriously absorbed the impact somehow. Gan Fall then directs Sanji to hold the open side of the shell toward the barrel, and press the top. It releases a devastating force, completely obliterating the barrel and blowing Sanji back. While the crew reels from the explosion (Usopp has jumped off the deck of the ship), Gan Fall explains that what they just witnessed was the power of the impact dial. It stores energy from impacts to be released later. He adds that people tend to fixate them to their palm by means of a glove or bandage. This causes Sanji and Usopp to reflect on their fight with Satori, and they are now able to make sense of his abilities. As Sanji comically hits the old man for not telling him about the impact, Gan Fall brings up that legends tell of even more powerful dials in the island's history. One of these is the reject dial, which has ten times the power of an impact dial. This power increase can cost the user his life however, so they have all but been retired. Nami expresses that dials were explained to them as everyday tools and not weapons, but Gan Fall counters that any tool which can benefit man, can also hurt him. For instance, he points out that a heat dial, which is used for cooking, can be equipped on a lance to become a fire lance (Shura's heat javelin is shown as an example). In the same vein, a flame dial can be placed in a bird's mouth to create a fire-breathing bird (Fuza is shown as an example). He concludes that because of this, blue sea dwellers with no knowledge of dials and artificial clouds whatsoever stand no chance against well-versed sky combatants. On that note, Sanji decides to ask Gan Fall about the "Mantra" ability that they also encountered against Satori. Gan Fall states that since he doesn't have the ability himself it is a bit hard to explain, but it is essentially an enhanced perception. He goes on to say that everyone's body has a "voice", and one can predict a person's next move by listening to it. The range of this ability can be increased with training: the Priests are able to "hear" everything on Upper Yard, while Enel's range extends to the country in its entirety. He does not understand the logic behind how Enel is able to do this however.
At God's shrine, Enel announces that Shura has been defeated. While laughing, he adds that he underestimated his opponents. The advisors are confused by his optimism, as two Priests have fallen in two days, who have been undefeated for six years. Enel laughs this off as well, adding an insulting joke that "God" wasn't on their side. Elsewhere in Upper Yard, Yama prepares his enforcers of God's Army to deal with the Shandia assault and the Straw Hats. The enforcers all resemble goats in appearance. At the outskirts of the Shandia Village, Raki places the spilled vearth back into Aisa's bag as she recalls Wyper and Kamakiri's words from earlier that they'd take down Enel with no regard for their fallen. In the forest itself, Kamakiri scolds Wyper for his use of the Reject Dial, saying that he'll die if he uses it again. Wyper responds by firing his bazooka in Kamakiri's direction, and asks how they will ever defeat their enemy if they don't make sacrifices. In the aftermath of the blast, Wyper has gone ahead alone, as Kamakiri considers him a fool for his actions. Braham however assesses that they should indeed split up, as there are two Priests left and they don't want any further humiliation by being trapped together again. They all decide to split off, with Genbo suggesting they meet again at God's shrine.
With the Shandia now split and heading in different directions, one of them hears a goat in his vicinity. Before he can make sense of it he is ambushed, and incapacitated by an enforcer of God's Army. Another of the Shandia notices and confronts one the enforcer, asking what he did. He states that Enel has directed them to clean the mess in Upper Yard, and the axe dials they carry are not found anywhere else in Skypiea. The Shandia attempts to shoot him, but he dodges. He holds up his shield for defense, but it proves no match for the dial's power as he is sliced as well.
In another area of the forest, Luffy is casually singing and strolling along until he believes he hears a goat. He's excited that there would be a goat in the forest, and decides to keep walking. One of the God's Army enforcers then emerges from a tree behind him and attempts an ambush, but Luffy punches him so hard that he bounces off of several trees and lands on his head. Luffy is frustrated that it wasn't actually a goat, but continues to walk and sing. He stops yet again when he notices something, but this time it is Wyper. The two exchange cold stares, and Wyper asks Luffy what he's doing here.

The narrator provides a quick recap on the Straw Hats: The "Explore" team, which consisted of Luffy, Zoro, Robin, and Chopper have departed in search for the ancient ruins, due directly south of the sacrificial altar that the Going Merry was stationed at before. Although it is quite literally a straight line to the ruins, Robin is the only who remains set on their original path, as the others have strayed off.
Chopper is being chased by enforcers of God's Army, screaming out for help as he runs as fast as he possibly can. The Shandia are approaching him from the direction he's heading though, causing him to run back in the direction he was coming from in the first place. A battle between the two forces ensues, with Chopper just desperately trying to stay out of the way. The enforcers prove victorious, while Chopper continues to run away and notes that he shouldn't have come here.
Elsewhere, Nico Robin notices that the forest is no longer as tranquil as it once was. She comes across the first signs of civilization, though the forest has almost swallowed up most of the ruins. One of the enforcers crash lands on some of the ruins in front of her, and tells her that she may not proceed. She tells him to get down from where he is, asking if he has any idea how valuable the historic ruins are. Confused by this, he readies himself to attack her. He starts informing her of Enel's orders, but before he can finish, Robin seizes him in various places with "Seis Fleurs" (sprouting 6 arms). She then uses "Twist" to break several bones, including his spine and legs. Left incapacitated and foaming at the mouth, Robin remarks that he deserved it before moving on.
In another area of the forest, Wyper reminds Luffy that he told him to leave. Luffy tells him its none of his business, but Wyper counters the island belongs to the Shandia, so it is his business. Luffy replies that he thought it was God's place, and apologizes. He then casually tries to keep walking away, but Wyper stops him, this time to Luffy's annoyance. Wyper announces his intent to eliminate Luffy, generating a smile from the pirate as he readies himself for battle.
A defeated enforcer lays on the ground in a different area of Upper Yard, as one of the Shandia comments that they've lost a few men to God's Army already. He notices Zoro walking along, and remembers that Wyper told him that the blue sea dwellers must be eliminated. He lunges at Zoro with his spear, but he effortlessly dodges and knocks him out with a devastating punch. He continues walking, until he hears one of the enforcers pleading for his life. The enforcer attempts to surrender and beg for mercy, but is blasted away just a few feet from Zoro. Braham emerges, and recognizing him, Zoro warns him not to get in his way. Braham decides to respond by firing his pistols at Zoro, which creates a blinding light that temporarily disorients the swordsman. He then bounces off a few trees until he is airborne directly above Zoro, firing off more blinding shots. Zoro manages to evade the bullets, but when he tries to ask about the pistols he can longer see Braham. Zoro senses him attacking from behind, though he is not able to counter quickly enough. Braham lands a powerful kick to his side, sending him flying back. As Zoro gets back to his feet, Braham commends him for his toughness and apologizes for underestimating the swordsman. Licking the blood from around his mouth with a devious smile, Zoro apologizes too for thinking Braham was one of the lesser warriors. He tosses his bag aside, and prepares to fight.

A tense standoff is underway between Roronoa Zoro and Braham, as the Shandia and God's Army continue to wage war against each other in the surrounding area. Braham suddenly launches into the air, and flips behind Zoro. Zoro is confused at how he was able to jump like that with no preparation, and he begins to remember Usopp explaining different kinds of wavers. He also notes that the lights from Braham's guns makes it difficult to pinpoint his position. Braham fires a barrage of bullets, but to his surprise Zoro evades while coming directly for him. Zoro prepares the "Tora Gari", and Braham makes note of his now drawn third sword. He escapes the technique by jumping to the milky road above him. Zoro follows him by running up a nearby tree and jumping towards the Shandia. While he's in midair closing in, Braham belittles the swordsman for his ignorance of wavers and dials. Holding up a small shell, he asks Zoro if he knows what it is before throwing it directly at him. It leaves a trail of cloud behind it as it reaches him, and Braham instantly closes the distance between the two, revealing it is a milky dial. Caught off guard, Zoro is knocked down to the milky road below as Braham asserts that randomly hopping around does not make him a sky combatant. An eel emerges from the road below to devour Zoro, but he slices it in half.
Standing atop the defeated eel, Zoro muses that he could probably eat it if he cooked it. This temporary lapse of focus gives Braham an opening, and he wastes no time firing another barrage of bullets. This time he gets Zoro in the leg, before he manages to scurry away behind a tree for cover. Making note of his leg injury, Zoro decides that he has to take the guns out of the equation. Emerging from his cover with his goggles on, he tells Braham that his guns are now useless against him. Braham calls his bluff however, and knows that they aren't sunglasses. He continues by mentioning Zoro's disapproval of his guns and the leg injury that he sustained, promising that he'll finish the swordsman now. Removing the goggles, Zoro responds that it is just scratch, though mentally noting that he needs more training for allowing himself to get shot while admiring an eel. Braham fires at Zoro again, and he evades by jumping to the forest floor below. He grimaces in pain from the landing, but fights the urge to yell out his agony as he continues to dodge the bullets. When he finally stops shooting, Braham asks the swordsman if he's trying to run away. Holding up just one sword in front of him, Zoro explains that sight, sound, smell, taste, touch, and thought; the 6 senses, can be good, bad, or neutral (3 variations of each sense, 6x3 = 18). Furthermore, each of these can be pure, or tainted (2 variations of each, 18x2 = 36). These are the 36 earthly desires. Zoro tells the Shandian that he may have a pistol, but Zoro has a cannon aimed at him, which exceeds his weapon in both range and power. Throwing forward another Milky Dial to reach Zoro, Braham wonders if he's gone insane, and asks him where the cannon is. As he closes in, Zoro tells him to open his eyes wide, he's about to show him. Braham tells the swordsman to joke all he wants, and as he gets closer, Zoro unleashes an extremely powerful flying slash: the 36 pound cannon of the one-sword style (One Sword Style: Sanjuroku Pound Ho). Braham is sliced clean across the chest, and falls to the ground unconscious. As Zoro re-equips his bag, he tells Braham that this was nothing personal. The Shandia wanted to eliminate him however, and he's not the kind of person to just wait around for someone to kill him. He concludes that he plans on leaving the jungle very much alive.
Elsewhere in the forest, the Priest "Sky Boss" Gedatsu is finishing off a group of the Shandia. Chopper unknowingly walks right by the Priest sobbing, too fixated on the fact that he's lost and doesn't know if he'll ever see the crew again. He wonders if he's doomed to die, and if so will he go to heaven, but comically asks himself if he's in heaven already. Noticing that he's come across ruins, he gets excited that everyone may already be there. All the while, Gedatsu wonders what a raccoon is doing there (the Straw Hats don't know what the Priests look like, and vice versa).
Aboard the Going Merry, Nami and Usopp are extremely distraught, as Sanji appears to have been burned to a crisp. Gan Fall is distressed, and Usopp comments that he can't hear a heartbeat. Nami's eyes grow wide in fear, as Enel's laugh is heard. Enel is revealed to be sitting on the ship, and comments that Sanji was a fool for attempting to attack him. Gan Fall asks why he is here, and Enel replies that is a rather cold greeting for someone he hasn't seen in six years.

Usopp is in dire panic over Sanji's condition, cursing Enel for killing him. He cries profusely that Chopper isn't there and he doesn't feel a heartbeat. Nami implores him to calm down, as his hand is on the right side of Sanji's chest, and his heart is on the left. Usopp's face comically goes deadpan as he realizes his mistake, and he is happy as he finally hears a heartbeat. Nami however reminds him that he's still badly hurt and can die, causing Usopp to panic all over again as Gan Fall watches speechless from their antics. Enel has heard enough of Usopp's frenzied emotions, and eliminates the sniper with a single touch to the forehead. His body falls to the ground smoking as if burned to a crisp, just like Sanji. Nami gasps and Gan Fall grows angry at Enel's actions, as he warns Nami to keep quiet if she doesn't want to end up like him. She fearfully holds in a yelp in compliance, and wonders just who he is and what he did to Usopp and Sanji. Gan Fall angrily asks Enel just what he's plotting. Enel replies that Gan Fall's followers have been working for him for 6 years, and they are almost done. In other words, he will soon no longer have any reason to be on this island, and he says he simply came to say farewell. Enel comments that it should make his people happy, since they cherish vearth so much. Gan Fall asks him to elaborate, and Enel replies that the reason he came to Skypiea in the first place was the same reason as the Straw Hats, and why the Shandia are trying to reclaim their land. They are all after the same thing: the legendary "Golden City', the lost city of Shandora. Gan Fall inquires about the gold, and Enel replies that it always cracks him up how clueless the people of Skypiea are about gold. He concludes that the winner of the survival game will be the rightful owner of the gold, and as a participant in the game himself, he must go. Gan Fall tries to ask him about his plans with God's Army before he leaves, but he replies that is something only "God" can know, and disappears in a flash. Just as Enel leaves, Nami and Gan Fall receive two new visitors aboard the Going Merry.
In the forests of Upper Yard, Luffy and Wyper's battle has begun. Luffy reverts to his regular size (from Gomu Gomu no Fusen) as he has deflected another blast from Wyper's bazooka. Luffy tells him to stop as it's useless, and Wyper concurs that it's time to change strategy. Wyper loads a breath dial into his bazooka, and fires a blast of compressed air at Luffy. When Luffy comments on the smell, Wyper informs him that it was gas that came out of the breath dial, and introduces a new variation of his weapon, the burn bazooka. He explains that it emits white flames to disintegrate his enemies, and fires a blast from it so powerful that it blows a gigantic hole through the tree behind Luffy. He just barely manages to get out of harm's way, and is incredibly shocked at the power of the blast. When Luffy regains his senses, Wyper has disappeared, but comes back with a kick to the side of Luffy's head. Luffy catches his fall by placing his hand on the ground, and uses the momentum to spin into a Gomu Gomu no Pistol. Wyper manages to evade, and creates distance between himself and Luffy by kicking off of his outstretched fist. He prepares another bazooka blast but Luffy springs from the tree below towards him before gets the chance. Luffy attempts to kick him with Gomu Gomu no Stamp, but Wyper blocks Luffy's foot with his own (jet ski). Luffy tries Stamp a few more times with Wyper blocking the exact same way. Wyper fires another blast from the burn bazooka, and Luffy somersaults away. He grabs a nearby tree branch and swings back toward the Shandia, saying that he won't lose in a "bazooka" competition. He prepares the Gomu Gomu no Bazooka, and as he closes in Wyper readies another shot. The two techniques hit their targets simultaneously, sending both Luffy and Wyper flying back. They both land hard against a tree, having taken a surprising amount of damage. This deters neither of them from preparing to get back to their feet, as they both seem eager to continue.

Wyper has gotten to his feet, and looks to the partially destroyed tree from his and Luffy's exchange for signs of the pirate. Panting heavily, he yells out to Luffy asking if he's dead. Luffy replies that of course he isn't and begins to get to his feet as well. Wyper hears a noise in Luffy's direction, and all of a sudden Luffy is seen falling to parts unknown. He wonders what exactly is going on as he continues to plummet into the dark abyss. Wyper wonders where he went, but decides that he needs to save his strength for Enel regardless. He notes that one more use of the reject dial will probably destroy his body, but nonetheless is resolved to defeat Enel. Having finally stopped falling, Luffy wonders where is as he notices ancient ruins around him.
Elsewhere in Upper Yard, Genbo finishes off a few of the God's Army enforcers with his bazooka. They have proven no match, and get blown away. Commander Yama emerges however, and comments on the rarity of Genbo's cannonballs. He adds that heavy material like iron does not naturally exist in the sky, and notes that quite a few of his men have fallen to him. He identifies the Shandia by his name, and Genbo does the same for Yama, both showing a contempt for one another. Genbo fires a cannonball directly at him, and is shocked when Yama has no reaction whatsoever. Yama displays a surprising amount of athleticism for his size by jumping and kicking the cannonball right back at Genbo, sending him flying back into a tree and coughing up blood as he curses the Commander. Yama reveals an entire belt full of axe dials, and charges directly for Genbo, who states that he can't die here. He taunts Yama to bring it on, to which the Commander responds by belly flopping on the Shandia with the axe dials. Genbo is cut up in multiple places, left unconscious as he slides to the ground and reveals several "X" marks have been sliced into the tree. Yama then flips away from the incapacitated Shandia and yells out a cry of victory.
As the Shandia continue to do battle in the forest, Nico Robin comes up on a tombstone. It appears to be for the city itself, as she guesses that it was most likely constructed by it descendants after it fell. She reads that the city is named "Shandora", and that it prospered more than 1100 years ago. She further reads that they mysteriously disappeared 800 years ago, and notices that this just so happens to fall into the "missing" 100 years of history of the world known as the "Void Century". She wonders if Sky Island was indeed a part of this untold history, and with a map of the city shown on the stone, resolves to head to the city square to see what more she can learn. Yama approaches from behind her however, and she inquires who's there. He comments on how pretty she is, and prepares to attack.
On the Going Merry, the two new visitors introduce themselves as Vice Commanders of God's Army, and state they came to avenge their brother Satori. They introduce themselves as Hotori and Kotori, and Satori was their elder brother. Nami states that she has no clue what they are talking about, as they explain that they will show no mercy for their brother's defeat. Gan Fall calls on Pierre, who instinctively tosses the Knight his lance, and Nami readies her Clima-Tact. Gan Fall mentions that they have to defeat the two quickly, in order to catch up to Enel, who may have malicious intentions for his prisoners. He tells Nami to stay back, but noting what just happened to Usopp, she rebuts that it is her turn to fight now. Gan Fall has no objections to this, and tells her that they first need to figure out what kind of dials they use.
Back in the forest, one of the enforcers tries to tell Gedatsu where something is, but his eyes are rolled to the back of his head, preventing him from seeing anything. The enforcers tell him his error, and Gedatsu is comically shocked when he can see again. The enforcer is shown to be trying to point him to Chopper, and even has a picture as proof that he is with the "blue sea dwellers". Chopper himself also continues to remain oblivious to their presence, calling out for Luffy, Zoro, and Robin. Gedatsu suddenly appears directly behind him, but he's rolled his eyes to the back of his head yet again, causing him to off course wonder where Chopper went. Chopper finally notices the priest behind him, and freaks out at how scary he looks with his eyes like that.

Gedatsu searches for Chopper wondering if he has the ability to turn invisible, but his eyes are rolled to the back of his head, causing him to not be able to see the reindeer standing right in front of him. A nearby member of God's Army yells to him that he's once again rolled his eyes back, and points out that the enemy is right in front of him. Hearing this while still freaked out at how Gedatsu's eyes look, Chopper wonders if he is an idiot. When he hears the militia member say "enemy" however he deduces that Gedatsu must be a priest. Gedatsu confirms Chopper's suspicions, but it's all in his head, causing the militia member to remind Gedatsu to actually say it out loud. Gedatsu breaks his silence by warning Chopper that he's in his territory, and that he won't be able to escape if trapped in one of his swamp cloud traps. He concludes by stating his "Ordeal of Swamp" has a 50% survival rate, however Chopper points out that he is actually the one sinking. Gedatsu quickly escapes however, by flying up with special dials on the heels of his shoes. He states he has no time to waste with a raccoon, and shoots a large swamp cloud out of another set of special dials on his palms. Chopper makes note of this ability, as Gedatsu elaborates that what he's actually shot is a small swamp. It turns out however that he actually targeted the militia member, as his head is engulfed in the cloud. He only gets deeper into it as he struggles, and eventually passes out from a lack of oxygen. Chopper observes and notes this as well, but not for long as the priest targets him next.
Chopper manages to avoid the cloud by running away, and runs to check on the militia member. Chopper resuscitates him back to life by transforming to Heavy Point and doing CPR (pounding his chest), and the militia member is grateful. Gedatsu quickly tracks them down, and admonishes the militia soldier for requiring help from the enemy. He brushes this off in light of what the priest did to him, and prepares to fight alongside Chopper. Chopper takes a similar fighting stance to the militia member in excitement, but this is short-lived as Gedatsu quickly closes the distance between them and sends the militia flying into a tree with a deadly punch. With Chopper still in awe, Gedatsu explains that the now extinct jet dial adds a great deal of speed and power to this punch, revealing their location on his elbows. Completely devastated at what just happened to the member of God's Army by the priest's hand, Chopper decides that he must run away or he'll die. He attempts to run back to the forest, but the priest quickly cuts him off. He prepares another punch with the jet dial, but Chopper eats a Rumble Ball, and transforms into Jumping Point to avoid the attack. Gedatsu closes the distance rather quickly in the air with the jet dials on his feet, and again attempts to punch Chopper. He avoids this time by transforming, to Heavy Point. Gedatsu fires another swamp cloud down at him, and Chopper transforms yet again to Guard Point to avoid it. Gedatsu flies directly at Chopper this time, as the latter transforms again to Brain Point, using "Scope" to try to find his weakness. He is not able to identify it quickly enough however, as the priest lands a devastating blow sending Chopper flying through several buildings.
Chopper is revealed to have transformed into his Guard Point at the last second to absorb most of the damage, and learned that the priest's weak point is his feet. He is still badly hurt from the blow however, and notes the impact on his eyesight and legs as he transforms into Walk Point. Struggling against his pain, and now completely denying the premise of trying to run away, Chopper crawls up to the priest and transforms into Heavy Point again as he grabs his foot. He tells himself that he will beat Gedatsu, before being kicked away by the priest. Gedatsu wonders what he's up to, as he prepares another swamp cloud. Going back to Walk Point, Chopper reflects on how he always runs away, and always needs protection. He believes this is why no one ever relies on him, and resolves to begin his life as a pirate here and now in this moment. He transforms to Jumping Point again, and jumps high into the air above Gedatsu. The priest muses that Choppers efforts are futile, and that the sky is his territory. As he tries to launch toward Chopper however, he flies up in a very erratic pattern, and notices that a shoe is missing (removed by Chopper earlier). He curses Chopper by calling him a raccoon, and Chopper responds that he's a monster, and that he is strong. Gedatsu replies that only the weak raise their voice and tries to connect with another Jet Punch, but Chopper dodges it. Surprised at his miss, Gedatsu notes that his emotions may have affected his mantra, as Chopper transforms into Arm Point. Bulking up his biceps as much as possible, Chopper lands a powerful blow to the priest's midsection, leaving an X-shaped indenture. The priest falls to the ground unconscious, while Chopper reverts back to Brain Point and falls as well.

Tony Tony Chopper revels in his victory over the priest Gedatsu, happily exclaiming that he's a real pirate now. He comments on how the priest is now stuck in one of his swamp traps, hoping that he continues to sink. Gedatsu is completely immersed into the swamp head-first, rendering him unable to escape, as Chopper watches him struggle. Gedatsu thinks to himself how he was careless, disappointed in himself for losing to a "raccoon". He attempts to use his jet dials to escape, but only manages to propel himself further into the swamp, now completely out of Chopper's sight. With the priest no longer a problem, Chopper decides his first order of business as a "real" pirate is finding the gold, rather than worrying about everyone else. As he stops for a sip of water, he notes an entrance to ruins with an incredibly large beanstalk in the distance, and wonders if everyone else is already there.
In another area of Upper Yard, Kamakiri and another Shandia warrior spot the beanstalk as they race through the forest. The beanstalk serves as their landmark that the ruins of Shandora are just ahead, as Kamakiri mentions that Enel is at the top. The Shandia warrior accompanying him all of a sudden lets out a load scream. Kamakiri turns to see the warrior badly injured in Enel's grip, as he mockingly asks the Shandia if he was looking for him. Kamakiri angrily shouts his name, and Enel retorts that he needs to refer to him as "Lord Enel", as he is God. Knowing of the Shandia's mission to kill him, he tells Kamakiri to feel free to try, even stating that he will sit idly for five minutes as the warrior tries his best. Enel tells him to try anything he'd like, as he will soon know the meaning of "God".
Aboard the Going Merry, Gan Fall and Nami have engaged the Lieutenants of God's Army, Hotori and Kotori. Nami is yelling for the two to stop, as they are knocking around Usopp's unconscious body. They reply that they are simply getting their revenge, for Usopp's role in the defeat of their brother, Satori. Nami has had enough and attempts to hit one of them with her Clima-Tact, but they absorb the blow with a dial in their left hand. He then places his right hand in Nami's face, and she is mortified at the possibility of taking and impact dial shot at point-blank range. Only a gas comes out however, as Nami drops to the ground disgusted at the smell. He reveals that it was in fact a flavor dial, in which he had stored some flatulence. With this, Gan Fall deduces that they are using four types of dials altogether. Hotori and Kotori confirm: they are using flame, axe, impact, and flavor dials fixated on their palms, as they demonstrate each effect. The brothers ask if they memorized it and can identify which Dial is which, as they repeatedly switch places with one another to confuse Nami and Gan Fall. The Sky Knight states that now that their Dial types are identified, there is no need to wait. Nami states that the weather is "Hurricane", and hurls her Clima-Tact directly at the two. They separate in order to dodge, mocking Nami for missing them. One of them attacks Gan Fall with the flavor dial, which he wards offs by shielding himself with his cape. They then follow up with the flame dial, as Nami warns that the gas disbursed earlier will cause an explosion. Rightfully so, a huge explosion erupts from the port side (left) of the ship. A portion of the Merry's railing is blown off, as the two brothers taunt the Knight for getting blown away. He is revealed to be hanging from the side of the ship however, utterly shocking them as he re-enters the fight. Gan Fall swiftly incapacitates Kotori with his lance, calling them fools for underestimating him. As Hotori reacts in shock at what has happened to his brother, he doesn't notice Nami's Clima-Tact returning from the earlier throw, and is knocked completely off the ship from behind with "Cyclone Tempo". As Hotori falls, Gan Fall tells Nami to use his gauntlet to finish him off, as he holds his left arm in pain. Nami questions him about his wound opening up again, but he assures her he is fine. As Pierre hands her the gauntlet, Nami asks what he wants her to do with it. He explains that it is equipped with an Impact Dial, and tells her to use it how he instructed them earlier. As Nami worries about the weight of the gauntlet, Hotori rises from the sea seething with rage over the defeat of both of his brothers (he reveals Kotori is the youngest). Nami notes that his body is now wet coming from the sea, and the atmosphere is already humid. She fires "cool ball" from her Clima-Tact, as Hotori comments on it getting chilly. He expresses annoyance at the attack appearing to do nothing, feeling like he is being underestimated. Unbeknownst to him Nami is actually goading him into using his flame dial, and he complies accordingly. Nami dodges and explains that the heat from his flames, in addition to the cold air she released earlier, will cause the vapor in the air to increase in density. She then uses "Fog Tempo", completely immersing the deck of the Going Merry in a thick fog. Blinded and confused, Hotori is completely helpless as Nami latches onto him in the fog, and aims the impact dial directly in front of his face. She releases the impact, incapacitating Hotori as she is blown back from the force as well. She expresses frustration at Gan Fall for the pain that using the Dial caused her, but is nonetheless happy with saving both the ship and the crew.
In another area of the forest, Nico Robin has sustained some damage in her fight with Commander Yama of God's Army. He comments that she isn't as strong as she pretends to be, as Robin pants heavily.

Pagaya, Conis, and Aisa are riding a waver together through the forests of Upper Yard, in search of the Going Merry. After asking permission to address her by name, Pagaya asks Aisa if she really knows the ship's location. Aisa confirms, impressing Conis with her ability. Conis is more concerned with her well-being however, as Aisa shivers incessantly. She claims she has never been this scared, as everyone's "voices" are disappearing. They pick up their pace, and head deeper into the forest.
Back on the Going Merry, Gan Fall has fully donned his armor and prepares to depart the ship. Nami frets about being left alone, but Gan Fall explains that he must go after Enel, as this now concerns the survival of the entire country. He quickly flys off with Pierre despite her protests, and Nami resolves to administer first aid to Sanji and Usopp. She notices something quickly approaching the ship, and it turns out to be Pagaya, Conis, and Aisa. Aisa trys to break away to ground level, but she is stopped. She turns her frustration to Nami by warning her that she will attack her, and Nami asserts a similar threat with the impact dial from Gan Fall's gauntlet. While Conis is shocked at what has happened to Sanji and Usopp, Pagaya explains to Nami that they need to make it back to the white sea immediately. When he expresses his anxiety that they may be spotted however, Nami chides him for making so much noise with the waver. This prompts Pagaya to remember that he has something for Nami.
In another area of the forest, Nico Robin is locked in battle with Commander Yama. Yama attempts to smash Robin into the ground with the weight of his stomach, but Robin narrowly escapes. As Yama resumes his pursuit, Robin notices that the stone slab behind her contains ancient text. She uses "Veinte Fleur - Calendula" to attempt to slow Yama's momentum, but the force of his blows still sends her reeling backwards until she eventually falls. Yama asks her when she will stop protecting a dead city like this, and Robin chides him for taking no interest in the legacy of their ancestors. This infuriates Yama further as he attempts to punch her into the ground, but she quickly jumps to safety as she makes a mental note that he will destroy the ruins if the fight doesn't move elsewhere.
In Enel's location, a few more Shandia have arrived, and are unleashing a barrage of attacks on him. He is completely unaffected, even yawning at their attempts in his boredom. Kamakiri tries impaling him directly through the skull, but Enel is again unscathed as the spear is seen coming out the other side of his head with a small amount of electrical discharge. He mockingly apologizes for falling asleep, finally leading Kamakiri to ask if there's truly no way to beat him. Enel responds that he is "Thunder" itself, explaining that thunder was something that humans could never truly fathom as he slowly begins to electrocute Kamakiri. He goes on to state that humans have always defined the terrible phenomena that they are unable to comprehend as "God". Kamakiri withdraws the spear and forms it into a blade, attempting to slash Enel. He succeeds, but the bisected body parts simply begin to turn into lightning itself. Enel has finally had enough, and tells Kamakiri that his five minutes are up. The latter tries to escape to warn Wyper that his reject dial will be useless, but Enel again transforms his body into electricity and is in front of Kamakiri in seconds. Kamakiri yells as loud as he possibly can for Wyper to run, before Enel injects him with one million volts of electricity. The entire section of the forest is illuminated with the discharge of so much electricity, and Kamakiri is instantly burned to a crisp. As an unintended side effect, Enel's electrical discharge courses through the river cloud of the forest and incapacitates at least 20 Enforcer's of God's Army. Enel simply shrugs it off, and resolves to chase down the others.
Now two hours into the "Survival Game", fifty-six contestants in total have fallen. Still remaining are 13 members of God's Army, seven of the Shandia warriors, and five of the Straw Hats, making it 25 survivors still left in the game.

At the Going Merry, Nami is testing out her improved waver after Pagaya's repairs, as they both marvel at its new speed. Pagaya mentions that the specific type of Jet Dial on the waver had been extinct for centuries, and was very surprised to find one. The group decides on their next course of action, eventually settling on regrouping at the beach. Nami expresses her confidence in the four man team of Chopper, Robin, Luffy, and Zoro, but Aisa interjects that currently no such group exists. Nami deduces that Aisa must have the "Mantra" ability as well, which Aisa confirms. She goes on to say that she has had the ability since birth, and that the others would not understand how scary it is to hear so many "voices" disappearing. Nami chides her by calling her a crybaby, drawing ire from the little girl. Conis interrupts by mentioning that Aisa's waver had been broken, and she was being attacked by skyfish when they found her. Nami asks Aisa what she was planning to do by coming to them, and the child doesn't have an answer. She was just worried about her friends, causing Nami to show some concern.
Elsewhere in the forest, Luffy wonders if everyone is safe while navigating through some peculiar ruins. He is frustrated that he left his backpack, which contained his coveted box lunch. Furthermore, he has gotten lost and cannot seem to find his way out. He ponders if the crew has already made it to the Golden City, expressing his excitement at seeing it as he continues to search for a way out of what he believes is a strange cave. In a different part of the forest, Zoro yells at a gigantic southbird to stop following him. He tries to tell it that he's already finished his food, and wouldn't share it even if he still had it. The bird doesn't appear to budge, angering Zoro to the point that he asks if it wants to fight.
At yet another different area of Upper Yard, a Shandia warrior is shocked when he notices Enel's presence. He resolves to attack Enel, but Enel appears behind him in an instant. Before he can even react, Enel incapacitates him, bringing the total number of survivors down to twenty-four.
Nico Robin is still locked in an intense battle with Commander Yama, doing her best to get away from the ancient ruins as Yama destroys everything in his path. He finally catches up to her in a clearing, and is slightly surprised to see her no longer attempting to run away. She tells him it is not necessary at this point, and explains that even if he apologizes now for all the destruction he has caused, she will not forgive him. Yama is amused at this, and retorts that she is protecting ruins that are not even hers. She concurs that the ruins in fact do not belong to anyone, but states that she is done talking with the commander. Yama replies that it no longer matters as he plans to crush her, hurling himself into the air. Robin is unimpressed, and tells him she will teach him the severity of destroying history. She extends "Treinta Fleurs" from a nearby vine, catching Yama mid-air with her arms. She slams him face-first into a nearby tree, but grimaces slightly from the weight of swinging him. Having shed a little blood now, Yama grows deeply angry, and takes off his belt of Axe Dials to prepare a charge attack. He begins rolling towards Robin, but she uses her arms to cover his eyes and turn his belt of dials to face his own body. He ends up rolling into the large tree behind Robin with tremendous force, now gravely injured from the impact of the dials. Robin lifts his head from the ground and scolds him on the importance of the ruins, stating that although history is constantly being created, man cannot return to the past. Yama manages to utter that he understands and asks for forgiveness, which Robin denies. This angers Yama yet again, and he attempts to grab Robin, but she uses her sprouted to arms to break Yama's fingers, causing him severe pain. She then summons more arms with "Cien Fleurs " all along the forest floor, which begin rolling him to a nearby cliff. He begs Robin to stop all along the way, until he is finally pushed off the cliff into the forest below. As he falls Robin reiterates that it is too late for apologies, sprouts more arms on Yama's person, and fractures his spine with "Clutch" before he hits the ground. Robin gathers her belongings, and proceeds onward.

Robin has reached the ruins and appears to be in a place designated as Shandora's town center. She comments that the building locations do not match the map and attributes it to the impact of force that caused the island to be sent into the sky. Robin continues to explore the ruins, making observations and notes. Upon her investigation, Robin wonders if her current location was the City of Gold as the area and displacements do not add up.
Chopper has also reached the ruins and is very excited, stating that the crew would be very happy with him when they see that he located the gold. Moving further upwards, Chopper also realizes there are ruins there as well as that the ground is tilted. Just as Chopper is making his way to find the gold, he hears a voice. Chopper turns around to find a giant dog behind him. He is very scared and scolds himself for being overconfident and that he should have gone looking for the other members and because of that, he would die. A man is shown telling Chopper that he is the third person to get to his location. He comments on Chopper defeating Gedatsu and indicated that Gedatsu was too careless, hence his defeat.
Chopper tries retreating but fall over a person, covered in blood lying on the ground. He thinks it was Holy who did that to the person and yells out in fear. The man tells Chopper not to be afraid of Holy because the dog would not bite unless there is a reason, as he is well-trained. He tells Chopper he cut the person lying on the ground. Chopper, in fear, asks who the man is and Ohm introduces himself. He then tells Chopper to be quiet as he is mourning the fact that mortals are weak, yet they fight only to be defeated. He says there is salvation and the route to it is for people to die. He asks Chopper what his reason is for being there which Chopper answers, saying for the gold. Ohm then offers to "save" Chopper, but, Chopper refuses.
Kamakiri tells Raki to go after Wyper to inform him Enel is not at the God Shrine and that it's not too late to back down as no one can defeat Enel. Raki left to inform Wyper and acknowledges that if Kamakiri could be defeated, then the Lightning Devil Fruit must be one of the strongest classes, saying Enel is more stronger than they anticipated.
Zoro is seen back at the Sacrificial Altar and relates it to being a deja vu. The giant Southbird is still with him and Zoro is furious that the bird is still following him. He tells the bird that it would keep getting hurt while following him, dropping his backpack. The bird looks at the bag, imagining food, and seizes the bag. Zoro yells at the bird, saying there is no food in the bag and hangs on to the straps as the bird goes flying away with the bag and Zoro.
Luffy has arrived at a dead end in the "cave" and thinks of it being a secret door. He considers breaking it down so as to get out. Luffy then uses Gomu Gomu No Bazooka to break it but nothing happened. Just then, a rumbling of movement occurred in the "cave" throwing Luffy off balance. Chopper is seen running from Ohm and commenting on escaping so as to find the other members. He recognizes Ohm being a swordsman and thought to keep his distance. Ohm then attacks Chopper through the wall defeating him, saying the Ordeal of Iron has a 0% survival rate.

Aisa decides to go into the Upper Yard herself only to be stopped by Nami. Nami tells Aisa that she cannot stand by and watch a child get killed. Aisa replies saying she is a warrior and Nami acknowledged saying she is a warrior child. Conis and Pagaya inquires if they are alright, which Nami answers that they are. Aisa keeps struggling to get off Nami and Nami tells her to settle down as two of the crew members have already been injured. Just as then, the giant python appeared.
Luffy is still punching Nola from the inside, causing her to do all sorts of weird things. The first thing she does is scare Nami and Aisa. Luffy, frustrated at not reaching an exit, keeps hitting Nola from inside. Next, she wreaks havoc on Shandia and Bilkans. The snake, still acting wild from being hit inside, attempts to swallow Zoro, who is still being held onto by the giant Southbird. Seeing that, Zoro yells for the bird to fly higher and faster or they both would be eaten. The bird thinks that the snake is after Zoro as a meal, so the bird releases Zoro.
Wyper has reached the Giant Jack, indicating that Enel is at its top and it is time to bring an end to the 400 years of hardship. Ohm senses Wyper coming up and stops him saying he has not given permission to Wyper to go up to the God's Shrine. Just then, Gan Fall appears telling Wyper that going up to the God's Shrine is not necessary. Gan Fall tells Wyper that the shrine is in ruin and Enel is absent from there and goes on to ask Ohm what their (referring to Enel and the Priests) purpose are; just then Zoro comes, crash landing. Gan Fall and Wyper recognize Zoro and Zoro asks himself if he was in the ruin.
The chapter ends with all the opposing sides facing off and Luffy accidentally forcing Nola into the fight as well.

Locked in a standoff between Wyper, Ohm, and the giant snake, Roronoa Zoro prepares himself for combat as he notes the snake following him to his current location. As the snake writhes in pain due to an unseen culprit, Ohm directs his colossal dog Holy to attack. Gan Fall and Pierre are present as well, and immediately focus on the Priest Ohm. Not to be forgotten, Wyper fires his Burn Bazooka with no particular target in mind. The snake recognizes and lunges for Zoro, as he gets to safety in the vicinity of Wyper. Zoro compliments the bazooka, and Wyper retorts that he will not let the blue-sea dwellers take this land. He blocks a strike from Zoro with the Jet Dial on his foot, and prepares to fire another blast directly at the swordsman. They are both interrupted by yet another strike from the giant snake, reminding Zoro of the acidic poison that he witnessed from it earlier. He lands only to notice Ohm and Holy directly behind him, and to his shock, the giant dog throws a punch at him. He barely manages to get away, as Ohm explains that he is not simply a breeder, but has trained Holy in Martial Arts and to walk on two legs as well. Ohm subsequently blocks a strike from Gan Fall's lance, and chides the warrior on his earlier defeat at Shura's hands. Gan Fall replies with his intentions to learn of Enel's true plans, and that he will not be leaving until he finds out.
In a separate location, Nico Robin has made it to a new area of the ancient ruins. Having thought it was strange that blue-sea ruins would have a ground made of cloud, she correctly deduced that there was an unseen level beneath her. She continues her search after having to literally cut through the clouds with a knife.
Back in Upper Yard, Zoro is continuing to dodge strikes from the snake until he notices Chopper's unconscious body. As he dashes for his crewmate, Ohm warns him to watch his step. A barbed-wire like string shouts out from a nearby wall and cuts Zoro clean across the chest as he makes his way to Chopper. As Zoro ponders what just happened, Ohm explains that he was cut by Iron Cloud. He further reveals that this special kind of cloud originates from Cloud Dials, and that the entire area is littered with these kinds of traps. As he explains that Chopper's body was specifically set as a trap for the blue-sea dwellers like him, Zoro tries to get some kind of sign of life from his crewmate. Ohm questions whether he now seeks revenge. Zoro replies that he does not like fighting for reasons like that, but admits that he is quite fired up now.
In Robin's area of the ruins, she continues to travel through old structures and forestry, until she notices a light at the end of the tunnel ahead of her. Intrigued at this new development, she picks up her pace.
As Nami and Aisa finally reach the Giant Beanstalk, they are greeted by a few enforcers of God's Army that don't want to let them pass. She asks Aisa exactly where they are supposed to be going.
Robin takes a seat, as she absorbs the full impact of what she has just discovered. After 800 years, she is shocked that the Golden City of Shandora is still so majestic.

Along the northwestern shore of Upper Yard, Conis and Pagaya ponder how they will defend the Going Merry while waiting at the meeting spot Nami had previously designated. They ultimately decide to blow the horn from their dial boat to ward off any potential threats. Conis attends to the still injured Sanji and Usopp, while Pagaya silently hopes for everyone's safety in light of the perilous events that have gripped Sky Island. Throughout the forest, the ground is littered with all the Shandia and Enforcers of God's Army that have fallen over the course of the survival game, as they continue to wage war with one another. While the Shandia are still pushing to make it to the Giant Beanstalk, the Enforcers desperately regroup in order to repel them. Enel himself is enjoying the chaos, content that his prediction of the survival game is shaping up to come true.
On the beanstalk itself, the battle between Gan Fall, Zoro, Ohm, Wyper, and the Giant Snake continues to rage on. Wyper lands a direct hit to the snake with his Burn Bazooka, but is shocked that it is to no avail. The blow does still cause quite a bit of commotion inside the snake, sending Luffy toppling and causing him to wonder what's going on. Zoro grimaces in pain from a hit he took, as he rises to his feet. Ohm berates him for being a blue sea dweller that knows nothing, as he explains that his blade is actually the result of an iron cloud dial built into the hilt of the sword. It allows the blade to follow its target anywhere, which he then demonstrates by extending it all the way to Zoro from several meters away. Zoro blocks the attack with ease, commenting on the whip-like nature of the sword and how the warriors of the White Cloud Seas are like a bunch of circus performers.
Sensing new arrivals to the battlefield, Ohm tells Holy that they will now be splitting up. As predicted, both Shandia and God's Army Enforcers soon join them on the battlefield. The Shandia inform Wyper that they are the only ones left, and reaffirm their determination to help Wyper get to Enel. Inside the snake, Luffy decides to try to dig his way out, and begins clawing into the walls. In actuality he is tickling the snake, and the spectators are extremely confused to see the snake laughing hysterically. Just then, Nami and Aisa also burst through the clouds below as they continue riding up the beanstalk. The Enforcers attempt to chase them down, but are repelled by a combined effort from Zoro, Wyper, and Gan Fall. Zoro and Wyper ask Nami and Aisa respectively what they are doing here. As Nami asks Zoro where the others are, Wyper prepares a shot at Nami, wondering what she plans to do to Aisa. As he fires the blast, Gan Fall manages to get Nami and Aisa to safety aboard Pierre. This is short-lived however, as the snake swallows all four of them in one bite, much to Zoro's horror. As Zoro and Wyper try to process what just happened, Ohm and Holy hit them both with a devastating surprise attack that appears to knock them out.

The Shandia seek retribution for the attack that knocked Wyper out, and prepare to do battle with Ohm and God's Army. Ohm counts a total of ten fighters (including himself) and two animals (The Giant Snake and Holy) as the Shandia begin to attack him. He also mentions two others who didn't die yet (Nami and Gan Fall). As the God's Army enforcers intervene, Ohm directs Holy to prepare their climactic attack. Holy jumps high into the air, and dashes around the battlefield at Ohm's command. As he runs, he sets off a multitude of Iron Cloud traps that begin to form a fence around their perimeter. As the Shandia look on confused, one of the Militia explain that the real Ordeal of Iron has begun. The strings of Iron Cloud continue to extend over the combatants until it forms a dome that completely encases the area.
Zoro slowly rises to his feet commenting that the technique was unnecessary, as he had no plans to run away. One of the Militia retort that it isn't just to prevent escape, and the fence is practically made of barbed wire. As soon as he finishes however, he is immediately slammed against it by Wyper, incapacitating him. Zoro wonders how to escape after he's defeated everyone, while Ohm tells him his main concern should be beating him. The Giant Snake lets out a sigh of exasperation, and resolves to simply watch the other combatants. As Ohm again assesses that there are now eight other fighters and two animals, Raki calls out for Wyper as she runs toward the newly formed fence. Wyper asks what she's doing there, and she explains that she has an important message from Kamakiri. She relays the message that Kamakiri has been seriously injured by Enel in the forests below, but before she can finish Wyper frantically tells her to escape. Raki isn't able to hear him clearly, and Enel appears directly behind her. Wyper runs up to the fence and pleads for Enel to not harm her as she isn't a part of this, cutting his hands on the fence as he clutches it in anger. One of the Militia warns him to not drop his guard, but Wyper ignores it and tells Raki to run away. Raki attempts to shoot Enel with her rifle, but the bullets simply phase through him as Raki remembers Kamakiri's message that Enel was invincible. The God's Army Militia presses Wyper up against the fence, but Wyper appears completely unaffected as he simply stares forward to Raki. Raki attempts to finally finish her message to Wyper, but is violently electrocuted before she can finish. Enel laughs it off as Wyper seethes with rage. The Militia soldier wonders why Wyper is unaffected, and attempts to attack Wyper again, but Wyper grabs the back of his head and slams him face-first into the fence. Enel claims Wyper is more naive than he would have thought, and clarifies that he makes no distinction between the people who attack him, woman or man. He then instantly vanishes, leaving Raki's unconscious body.
Ohm comments on how terrifying Enel truly is, but both Zoro and Wyper are more concerned with their companions that the Giant Snake has swallowed. They simultaneously dash for the snake, fighting each other along the way. Ohm directs Holy to attack them, and tries to cut Zoro down once they are separated. Zoro fends off his extended whip-like blade, while Wyper kicks down a Militia member that intercepted him in the air. They are now down to six men and two animals still in the fight, however the Giant Snake continues to look disinterested.
Inside the snake itself, Gan Fall, Nami, Aisa, and Pierre have taken a hard landing into the stomach. Nami states that they must find a way to escape before being digested, and Gan Fall inquires as to why she left the Going Merry to begin with. Aisa immediately becomes hostile towards the sky knight, as Nami holds her off. Gan Fall proposes digging through the stomach wall, but Nami rebuffs that will only irritate the snake further. Gan Fall tries to explain that he is joking, and in the middle of their antics they are discovered by Luffy.

Luffy has heard the story of how Nami, Aisa, Gan Fall and Pierre, have ended up in their current situation, and comments how unfortunate it is that they were eaten by the snake. This angers them all to the point Nami pulls the skin on Luffy's face by his nose, as he fails to realize that this means he was eaten as well. Gan Fall even questions if he's really the captain, as Luffy goes hysterical, finally realizing the depth of the situation. He proposes that they need to find the snake's rectum immediately, earning him a smack from Nami. Luffy still doesn't quite get the issue with his idea, and Nami's harsh treatment of his idiocy causes Gan Fall and Aisa to comment on how scary she is. As Nami suggests they find an escape before the snake goes berserk again, her, Gan Fall, and Aisa all gasp in horror as they realize Luffy was the reason the snake was rampaging in the first place. Luffy earns yet another beating from Nami, this time to the extent that it actually disturbs the snake.
Wyper notices the snake writhing in pain, and realizes that this must mean its victims are still alive inside. He resolves to blow open its stomach, but its erratic movements cause him to miss the shot. The snake then begins to go after Wyper directly.
In another area of the battlefield, Zoro continues to dodge Ohm's whip-like blade as he tries to think of a way to save his friends from the snake. Ohm is unrelenting however, as Zoro realizes that he can somehow sense his location even from behind walls. One of the God's Army Enforcers appears from the rubble and attempts to attack Zoro, but he effortlessly punches him out of commission. A Shandia emerges in a different area attempting to do the same to Ohm, and is cut down instantly. This reduces the total combatants to four men and two animals. Zoro attempts to launch an attack on Ohm in the aftermath, but the blade shapeshifts into an iron wall to his surprise. Ohm chides Zoro for not realizing the blade could do this, and Zoro angrily attempts another attack in response. He is cut repeatedly as the blade continues to change shape in response to his every move, and he resolves to put some distance between himself and Ohm upon realizing this. Ohm tells him that running will change nothing, and Zoro responds with his new ranged attack, the thirty-six pound cannon. Ohm manages to block this with his blade as well, much to Zoro's shock. Zoro quickly gets to cover in order to re-strategize. Ohm comments that the attack was interesting, but that Zoro won't be able to use it again. He states that no matter how much he runs, he will always be able to pinpoint his exact location with his Mantra ability.
The remaining combatants fight on - Wyper lands a bazooka hit on the snake, and Holy takes out another Shandia. Meanwhile, Zoro has discarded his goggles, and finally tied on his bandana. He and Ohm stand directly opposite one another on either side of a thick wall, unable to see one other, but still equally aware of each other's presence. Ohm claims that Zoro wasn't bad for someone from the blue seas, but asserts that he now has Zoro's heart in his sights, and that it's time to pray. Zoro staunchly rejects the idea of doing so, and tells the priest that even though he can't see him through the wall, his sword will directly give away his position. Ohm retorts that by then it will be too late, and begins to extend his blade. Zoro finally unsheathes his third blade, equating each blade of his to a lifetime of 36 worldly desires (for a total of 108). Zoro unleashes Three Sword Style: 108 pound cannon, a flying slash so powerful that it completely obliterates both the wall and Ohm's iron whip-blade before cutting him down.

Robin reads the writings she finds throughout the Main Ruins of Shandora. She reads something about a bell which reminds her of the bell that Noland mentioned in his notes. She then realizes that a Poneglyph was brought to this city way back when it fought against "the enemy," and that the city was ruined because of this. From Noland's notes, she deduces that the Poneglyph was with the bell which was hung at the center of the four altars. Instead of finding a bell there however, she finds the beanstalk. She concludes that the bell never made it to the sky. Enel shows up and comments on the magnificence of Shandora as well as Robin's archeological skills. He then tells her that he has already taken the gold. Robin asks him if he took the golden bell as well. Enel seems confused so Robin concludes that he does not know about it. Enel asks her what she learned from reading the script. Robin tells him that there was a great bell, but it must not have made it into the sky.
Enel then remembers the 400 year old story of the island flying into the sky with a beautiful sound called the "Song of the Land." They both get excited of the possibility of the bell still being somewhere in the sky, though Robin is more excited over the possibility of finding a Poneglyph. Meanwhile Conis and Pagaya find one of the soldiers that were working for Enel in a life-threatening condition. The soldier tells them that Enel is planning on sending Sky Island to the Blue Seas and escaping on the Ark Maxim. Enel strikes them with lightning, but Pagaya manages to push Conis out of the way in time. Zoro finds out that Holy obeys anyone by accident and tells Holy to knock itself out. Enel sends the Upper Ruins crashing into the cloud below by destroying the supporting cloud with his lightning. Conis rushes to warn everyone of Enel's evil plan.

The entire upper level of the ruins collapses from Enel's power, and Zoro grabs Chopper's unconscious body as he and the Giant Snake fall to the base of the beanstalk.
Inside the snake, Aisa grabs on to Luffy, who grabs on to Nami's waver as she prepares to fly out of the snake's mouth. Aisa tries to point out that Luffy is directly behind the exhaust pipe, but the warning goes unheeded. Luffy and Aisa are blasted off the waver as it propels forward. Gan Fall notices that they are left behind, but he, Pierre, and Nami fully emerge from the snake's mouth before they are able to turn around and grab them. Gan Fall sends Pierre back in to save them, as he and Nami rapidly descend to the ruins below.
At the ruins, Robin notices the falling debris, and eventually Zoro as well. Zoro arises from the debris still holding Chopper's body, but highly irritated at the near-death experience. Robin comments that a normal person would have died, and Zoro asks about their whereabouts upon finally noticing her presence. She updates him that they have found their intended destination, the City of Gold, but there is no longer any gold. The snake lands in a different area, initially with his head poking through the clouds below. As it lifts its head and notices its surrounding, it begins acting strangely.
Aisa begins hitting Luffy, irritated that only they are the ones left behind where they started. Luffy again proposes trying to leave through the snake's anus, only to be denied by the young Shandia. In the midst of their antics, they both notice that Pierre has come back for them.
At Nami and Gan Fall's landing location, Nami ponders exactly where they are. Gan Fall urges her to believe in Pierre getting Luffy and Aisa out safely, and adds that he has never been to their current location. At Wyper's landing site, he stands in awe at the land of his ancestors. Nami notices the snake's erratic behavior and tries to inform Gan Fall, but he is absorbed in thought wondering where exactly they may be. The snake actually sheds a tear, and lets out a load roar to Nami's befuddlement. The noise however annoys Enel, and he proceeds to violently electrocute the snake. Wyper and Zoro react in horror at what may have happened to Aisa and Nami respectively, but this is short-lived as Nami notices Zoro and Robin. Zoro reacts angrily to her having escaped, while Robin wonders why she is here. Nami reminds them more importantly that Luffy is still inside the snake, but this only angers Zoro further. Wyper contemplates Enel's strength, as he realizes he was unable to do what Enel did with one hit, with several blasts from his burn bazooka. Enel appears behind him and asks about Aisa, which Wyper responds to with a bazooka blast. Enel dodges, and uses a dial to create an Orb Cloud to float on. He chides Wyper for the missed attack, saying that is no way to return the favor of getting him to his homeland. He continues by announcing that the game is not quite over yet, to Wyper's confusion, explaining that he and everyone else that has arrived are all contestants. As he explains, Zoro, Wyper, Robin, and Gan Fall arrive to face him as Nami hides behind a wall. She feels relieved that she is not being counted among the survivors, until he reveals that there is still an extra person left with three minutes remaining. He asks who remaining will be eliminated, and they discuss it among themselves, not including Nami. As she realizes this and attempts to add herself to the discussion as well, she is shocked as the four of them collectively decide that Enel will be the one eliminated.

Gan Fall reflects on the days in Skypiea prior to the arrival of Enel. The Shandia still seek to wage war with the Skypieans over the return to their homeland. Gan Fall wonders if this makes them the bad guys, as the prosperity the Skypieans have garnered over the past 400 years was thanks to their ancestors' victory over the Shandia. His advisor attempts to console him, stating that as their descendants it is their responsibility to continue their fight, and that they must protect their country's treasure. Apparently they had tried a diplomatic solution in the past that the Shandia refused, and he thus feels they deserve no pity. Gan Fall replies that is simply too difficult to admit defeat, given how long they have been fighting over this. At some point after the island is attacked, and it is revealed that the invader calls himself "God Enel".
In the present, a group of three young Skypieans have gathered at Conis and Pagaya's house. One of them asserts that her and her father's rebellion against God makes them bad people, and another chimes in that his dad actually works for God. He states that he has never actually met him however, and one of the other kids chimes in that he must be incredible. They all hope to eventually meet his dad. Meanwhile, Conis is racing towards town on her waver, hoping to inform the citizens of Enel's insidious plot to destroy the island.
At the ruins of Shandora, Enel laughs off the assertion from his game's survivors (Gan Fall, Robin, Wyper, Zoro) will be eliminating him. He berates the group for not knowing what a god truly is, and expresses his exasperation at all the "troubled lambs" in the world. Gan Fall interrupts him, demanding to know what exactly Enel seeks to accomplish. Enel replies that he is simply returning to where he belongs, and explains about a place known as Fairy Vearth. It has a limitless amount of vearth, and according to legends from the place he was born, it is where God lives. Enel goes on to say that such a place is what he ideally deserves, and admonishes the Skypieans and Shandia for fighting so long over place with such little vearth in comparison. He states that Earth, God, and men all have a place they naturally belong. Gan Fall becomes horrified as begins to realize what this means, and Enel confirms that he plans to send the island back down to the blue seas. He begins explaining it away as "law" of nature, and Gan Fall, in fury, responds that "God" is simply a title given to the leader of this country. Enel retorts that changed when HE became God, leading Gan Fall to angrily declare that the people of this world don't need a God. Enel is able to perceive that Gan Fall is worried about his Militia, and reminds him that 6 years ago his 650 followers lost to his army. As such, they were put to manual labor. They have finished their job as of this morning, and Enel repeats that only the 6 of them remain on the island. Gan Fall immediately realizes what this means, and Enel confirms that they rebelled against him when they learned of his intentions. He casually hints at the need for their funerals, and Gan Fall has heard enough. He lunges to attack Enel with his lance, but Enel effortlessly dodges and shocks him with 30 million volts of electricity. As he falls, Gan Fall again has a flashback to the exact moment that Enel took his throne. After having been defeated he protests to the forced labor of his followers, but Enel casts him out of the shrine, telling him he is no longer God. Back in the present, he falls unconsciously to the ground as he is burned to a crisp from the power of the lightning.
The Straw Hats quickly deduce that Enel is using the Goro Goro no Mi, as Robin and Nami become horrified at what they are up against. With there now being 5 survivors as he predicted, Enel states that it is time for them to head to Fairy Vearth. He intends to bring the survivors with him, as everyone else that didn't make it through the game are deemed unfit to live in his new land. Suddenly, Robin asks what happens if they refuse. When Enel is confused by the inquiry, Robin goes on to state that while it is possible to destroy the country with his power, the object he seeks will also fall to the sea. Enel realizes that she is referring to the Golden Belfry, and responds that he can only think of one place it might be after accounting for everywhere else they have been already. Robin is visibly shocked at the speed of his deductive reasoning, and Enel voices his annoyance at the former attempting to trick him. He states he does not like manipulative women, and electrocutes Robin.

Zoro and Nami are horrified as Robin falls from being electrocuted. Zoro dashes to her in a matter of seconds, catching her before her body hits the ground. Seething with rage, he reminds Enel that she is a woman. Enel casually blows this off, prompting Zoro to attack him. He commends Zoro's strength as he blocks his strike, only angering Zoro further. He then vaults into the air above Zoro using his staff. Wyper takes advantage of the opening and fires his Burn Bazooka at Enel. Enel counters with his lightning however, producing a flash so bright that it obscures Wyper and Zoro's vision temporarily. Enel taunts the group further for not understanding his strength, as Nami is awestruck at Enel's ability from her hiding spot. Enel inquires as to why the group is attacking him after his invitation to paradise. Zoro angrily retorts that he has no interest in Enel's dream world, launching himself again at Enel despite Nami's protests that he can't defeat the lightning user. Zoro manages to slash right through Enel, but it is to no avail as he effortlessly reforms his body from electricity. He gets a hold of Zoro's swords, and channels his electricity directly through them - electrocuting Zoro. Zoro falls to his knees before Enel, who steps on his head. Enel goes on to explain that men will always kneel and beg for mercy before God when they are terrified, as Zoro wonders how he can be so powerful. His speech is interrupted however as Wyper wraps his legs around Enel's body, and places his hand on his chest. Enel asks if he is committing suicide, and is slightly puzzled when Wyper responds with his own question: if Enel has ever heard of Seastone. As Zoro ponders the ramifications of this while still under Enel's foot, Enel himself notes that his power is being drained. Enel then deduces that Wyper is attempting to use the Reject Dial, warning the Shandia warrior that his body will not be able to take it. Wyper responds that he actually planned on dying, and taking Enel with him, as he fires the Reject Dial. The tremendous impact causes Enel to cough up blood, as Wyper dwells on his fallen comrades, and words of wisdom from the Shandia Chief.
As children, Wyper, Genbo, Kamakiri, and Braham were told the story of how their Shandia ancestors defended an ancient stone tablet 800 hundred years ago. Raki listens on from a hiding place. Although their people were successful, they lost a great many men in the process. It was the will of their surviving ancestors that they forever guard the message of the ancient tablet from then on. The children chime in on the rest of the story, aware that 400 years ago the island was blasted into Skypiea. Their ancestors were unable to defend the land from the native Skypieans, and thus the land of their ancestors was lost. The chieftain confirms that they lost much of value in being unable to defend their homeland, notably, what is referred to as "The Light of Shandora". Wyper dwells further on the Shandia recent attempts to reclaim the land, as he stands above Enel's now unconscious body. Nami begins to run over to Robin and Gan Fall's bodies, but the group is suddenly terrified when a large amount of electricity begins to pulsate from Enel's body. Enel uses his electricity to restart his heart, and is soon back on his feet. He states that mere men cannot make God feel fear, as true terror comes from God alone.

Wyper falls to his knees in shock, unable to fathom that Enel could have revived himself from such a powerful attack. He begins to feel the recoil from using the Reject Dial in his right arm, as Enel taunts him. Wyper is affronted at the casual use of his name, explaining that he is a descendant of the Shandia warriors that defended this place 800 years ago. Reiterating how his people have searched tirelessly for these ruins for 400 years, he manages to stand back to his feet. Enel proceeds to knock him off his feet with this staff, breaking off his Jet Dials that contained the Seastone in the process. Enel commends him for being able to stand again after using the Reject Dial, but asserts that the Shandia is still no match for him. Banging one of the drums on his back with his staff, Enel creates an extremely large bird made purely out of 30 million volts of electricity. The bird pierces Wyper directly through the torso, causing a tremendous electric shock that puts the warrior down yet again. Zoro decides to take advantage of the opportunity to go for the Kairoseki. Enel quickly notices his advance however, and taps a different drum on his back. This creates another very large creature in electrical form, this time resembling a giant wolf. The beast charges and "bites" into Zoro, incapacitating him with an extremely powerful surge of electricity.
Nami sits in disbelief that even Zoro could be taken down so easily, and surmises that Enel will kill them all. He takes a step towards her, but to his surprise Wyper has once again risen to his feet. Enel inquires as to why Wyper is so persistent, considering that he's the only one left alive at the moment, and that the entire island will be falling down from the sky. Wyper defiantly replies that it is all for his ancestors, leading Nami to wonder about his persistence as well. Standing with his body still smoking, and his eyes rolled to the back of his head,  Wyper remembers a time from his childhood that the Shandia Chief called him to his hut. The chieftain tells Wyper that his ancestor, Kalgara, had another yet unrevealed reason for taking back their home. This reason also happened to be Kalgara's greatest regret.
Back in the present, Enel has amassed an extremely large concentration of electricity directly above Wyper. As Wyper looks up in horror, Enel releases "God's Judgement";  an electric release so powerful that it blows a huge crater in the ground, while producing shockwaves strong enough to blow away the limp bodies of Enel's victims. Now in absolute horror, Nami makes it to Robin and Zoro's bodies just as Enel steps behind her. Out of fear for ending up like her comrades, she asks Enel to take her with him. Enel decides to comply, adding that people who don't give in to their fear annoy him. Nami uneasily agrees, hoping to not incite any further anger from him.
Conis has made it to within viewing distance of Angel Island on her waver. In the town itself on Lovely Street, the White Berets announce to the townspeople that the Straw Hats and Gan Fall are on the run. They ask that anyone who has spotted these "criminals" report directly to them, as they shall be protecting Enel and his priests.

On Angel Island, the White Berets spot Conis arriving and recognize her as Pagaya's daughter. In the ruins of Shandora, Enel asks Nami if she needs to bring along her waver. He says she will not need it where they are going, but ultimately does not care either way. He then takes her inside a cave, where he shows her the Ark Maxim, a massive flying ship powered by his lightning using a special gold from Upper Yard that transforms lightning into mechanical energy. Nami is left scrambling for answers, as she will not be able to escape with the waver in midair, and Enel looks forward to going to Fairy Vearth.
Outside in the city, Nola is sleeping when Luffy forces its eyelid open from the inside. After briefly arguing with Aisa, the two of them and Pierre escape from Nola through its yawning mouth. Luffy climbs a tower and expresses his excitement at escaping, and realizes that they are in Shandora's ruins, where the bell should be; Aisa notes that this must be her people's homeland. Luffy then sees a giant hole in the ground nearby as well as something else, and leaps down to check it out. Aisa and Pierre catch up to him, and find him shouting at the unconscious Zoro, Robin, Chopper, and Gan Fall, wondering what happened to them and where Nami is. Aisa then sees the unconscious Wyper in the hole and becomes distressed. Luffy wonders who could have done this, and Aisa responds that it could only have been Enel. Robin then regains consciousness and coughs, causing Luffy to go to her and ask who took Nami away. Robin does not know, but reveals that the entirety of Skypiea will soon be destroyed. As the Shandian villagers look for Aisa and the White Berets chase after Conis through the first gate, Aisa notes that Enel and Nami will be going to where the Gold Bell is, hearing both of their "voices". Luffy then tells Aisa to take him there.

Nami and Enel board Maxim, and he detects a chaos in Angel Island caused by Conis. Nami asks Enel how Mantra works, and he explains it and how his Devil Fruit ability allows him to listen to conversations by reading electrical signals. Enel declares his plans to destroy Skypiea, and Nami shivers in fear. Enel becomes quite and detects someone else, but he keeps it to himself.
Back in Angel Island, the White Berets shoot at Conis to try to stop her. She rams Captain McKinley in the face with her Waver, knocking him into the side of a building. She jumps off her Waver, and it crashes into McKinley. Conis tries to get the nearby civilians to hear her please, but they reject her as a criminal. A White Beret tries to attack Conis, but she pulls out her Burn Bazooka to stop him. Conis warns the civilians to go to Cloud End and evacuate to the Blue Sea, revealing Enel intent to destroy the country. They do not believe her, and a child throws a stone at her for speaking ill of their god, hitting her in the head and drawing blood. He realizes what he did and apologizes, and Conis drops her weapon. As the White Berets charge at her, she shouts that she does not accept Enel as a god.
Conis starts to tear up as she remembers her father's sacrifice. The civilians run away fearing that Conis will soon face god's punishment, but she kneels down and sits in silence. Everyone is surprised when she is not vanquished. She explains that one of the Divine Squad soldiers escaped Upper Yard to reveal Enel's plans and that both he and her father were punished for it The civilians are distraught and in disbelief, but Conis tells them that they cannot wait for a miracle. She asserts her position that people have to make a decision to save their own lives without relying on a god.
Meanwhile, Luffy, Aisa, and Pierre rush to the cave where the Maxim is. Robin and the others regain consciousness but are heavily injured. Enel stands on the edge of his ship, irriated that his prophecy was wrong, and Luffy shouts up at Enel. He stands in front of the Maxim to confront the tyrant, asking what he did to his crew. Enel asks him which piece of trash the pirate is talking about as the two look ready to fight.

Angel Island's residents hastily to the cloud's end. They are asking the Militia's whereabout but Conis did not have the courage to speak of the tragedy. McKinley suddenly interrupt and guaranteed that the White Beret will find the Militia to safety and commanded the citizens to leave immediately. He actually knows that Enel was an evil person and the Birka tragedy must not repeat where Enel destroyed it six years ago. McKinley revealed that many people fought against Enel. For the sake of the citizens, White Beret betrayed the Militia to protect the island. Conis left and leave the evacuation to McKinley.
Enel demanded respect from Luffy as he himself is a god but Luffy did not see him as a god. Aisa praised Luffy for his braveness. Nami tells Luffy to be careful and Enel stared coldly at her. Luffy felt angrier as Enel laughed on the fate of the Skypiean and Luffy dashed towards Enel and attacked Luffy with his lightning. Dumbfounded Luffy stands firmly, Enel launched second and third attack and still Luffy was unaffected, yet it annoys Luffy and responded with a punch and Enel evaded it. Nami thought that maybe it is because of his rubber body make him able to withstand Enel's lightning.
Luffy reattacked Enel and welcomes it as he proudly thought that physical attack will not harm him but it proves otherwise. Nami concluded that it because rubber nulls out electricity and Luffy became Enel's natural enemy.

Luffy stands over a downed Enel, and Nami wonders if he actually won. However, Enel gets up and distances himself from Luffy as he asks who the pirate is. Luffy tells him that he ate the Gomu Gomu no Mi and is a rubber man, which confuses Enel, and Nami understands the confusion as there is no rubber in the White-White Sea. Luffy tells Enel that he is immune to lightning as he throws a punch at him, but Enel dodges it using Mantra. Luffy spins around and midair and kicks Enel, but he dodges again and appears behind Luffy. Thinking quickly, Luffy flips backward and tries to stamp Enel with his feet, but he turns into lightning and strikes Luffy with his staff. Enel continues beating Luffy with his staff, frightening Nami, and he pins Luffy's neck to the wall as he tells the pirate that he has seen through his attack pattern.
Enel tells Luffy that not all his attacks are lightning-based, so he can adapt to Luffy's immunity. Luffy grabs Enel's staff and pushes it back at him, but Enel calls his simple attack useless as he moves away, freeing Luffy. Luffy gets annoyed that he cannot predict Enel's movements, and Enel tries to understand what rubber is. Enel then uses Thunder Alchemy to forge the tip of his staff into a trident, and he jabs it at Luffy, forcing him to leap onto the wall to dodge. Enel says that Luffy's weakness lies in his inability to attack, and Luffy drops down to attack, but Enel disappears into his ship. Using gold as a medium to travel in lightning form, Enel appears behind Luffy and nearly stabs him. Luffy grabs his staff, but recoils due to its high temperature, and Enel says he can use lightning to make it even hotter. However, Luffy manages to axe kick Enel and send him crashing into the deck.
Enel shouts at Luffy in anger, and Luffy follows up with rapid punches, but Enel intercepts his arms and throws Luffy onto the deck. Enel tells Luffy that he picked a bad time to visit, as he as a god could predict the future and even create this world. Enel tells Luffy he was foolish to stand up against him and offers to let him witness the annihilation of Skypiea by his side. Enel releases 200 volts into the ship, and it starts moving. Outside it, Aisa wonders what to do, and calls out to Luffy and Nami. As Luffy climbs out of the deck, Nami wonders what they should do and asks Luffy for guidance, but he tells her to be quiet as he throws his straw hat to her. Luffy tells Nami that she is the Pirate King's friend, so she should stop worrying. Enel asks what country the Pirate King rules, and Luffy replies that he is the king of the sea, which amuses Enel as he prepares to finish their battle in the sky.

Ark Maxim first flight has begun, named Deathpiea, savior of the world amidst in hopelessness as per Enel's description. Aisa and Pierre tried to board Maxim but the ark stopped mid way. Something happening inside the ark and large smoke starts billowing on top of it. Nami wondered what was it and Enel is laughing.
The Shandia noticed the black smoke and felt disturbed. Enel said, it was a thunder cloud produced by the ark which could stores strong electrical current by using his energy and will be able to emit thunders ten times stronger than Enel's power and soon will cover entire Skypiea, then he demonstrates how it works. A thunder from the cloud strikes the Angel Island while being witnessed by the citizens. Enel continues laughing and attacked Luffy with his trident. Luffy evaded it by spinning in mid air and swings his leg to Enel, and blocked Luffy's attack with his hand but Luffy landed his leg on the hot trident which causes his leg to burn. Enel strikes Luffy again with his hot trident and forces Luffy to defend it with his hand which causes burn on Luffy's hand. Luffy still could not fight Enel due to his mantra and come up with "gomu gomu baka" and turned himself into a dumb person. Surprisingly, it really affects Enel and could not hit him. Luffy uses "gomu gomu octopus" and Enel said Luffy is trying hard to overcome the mantra because it is how he dominate his opponents. Luffy came up with another idea, then dashes to the throne and starts punching and kicking the wall which causes his punches and kicks deflected backward randomly and hitting Enel. He tried to attack Luffy for the second time but failed once again and thrown away after receiving Luffy's attack. Enel stands up and unable to evade Luffy's incoming "gomu gomu no bazooka" and finishes it with "gomu gomu no rifle".

Enel is knocked back by Luffy's Gomu Gomu no Rifle, but he doesn't stay down for long. The self-proclaimed god rises once more, berating Luffy for interfering with his plans. All while causing the Ark Maxim, to rise once more. The people of Sky Island flee as they bare their eyes to the colossal ship. Far off in the ruins, Nico Robin is also shocked by the sight of the ship. Back on the Ark Maxim Enel taunts Luffy, exclaiming that Sky Island is doomed and nothing will be able to save it. Angered, Luffy proceeds to attack Enel once more. Determined not to lose to Luffy once more, Enel uses his thunder alchemy to trap Luffy's arm in a golden ball. Luffy yells at Enel to free him, but the latter ignores the former's pleas and proceeds to kick him off the ship. He mockingly tells Luffy that he's welcome to keep the gold.
Luffy still holds on, clinging on to the ship desperately for his life. He tells Enel that the sea is full of monstrous people like himself to defeat. Enel then angrily proceeds to kick Luffy once more and sends him falling to a great depth. Aisa, riding Pierre, watches as Luffy falls and attempts to save him. However, their efforts prove to be futile as Enel strikes all three of them down with his lightning as Nami looks on with horror. He then proceeds to strike her down next. Meanwhile, Conis notices that Sanji and Usopp are missing and questions where they could have gone off to with their injuries. Below the Ark Maxim, Sanji and Usopp are seen climbing the ship.

Sanji wakes up in shock and disbelief. Remembering how powerful Enel was firsthand, he frantically awakens Usopp after realizing that Nami's absence means she is most likely in danger. Having been incapacitated the same way, Usopp remembers Enel as well. After stepping out on the deck of the Going Merry, they notice the Ark Maxim sitting upon the canopy of the forest trees above them. While Usopp wonders just what it is, Sanji states it is irrelevant, as all that matters to him is that he spotted Nami aboard. He however continues by pointing out that Nami has taken off her t-shirt, drawing Usopp's contempt. Usopp points out that Gan Fall is missing as well, and that Su is now with them. Sanji's sights are set on Nami however, informing Usopp that they are losing time to save her, as the ship she's on is actually flying higher by the minute. Usopp doesn't understand why he is required to go, and Sanji reminds him of the gadget he developed to shoot rope from his waist. Conis wonders just what they are thinking, as Sanji is seen climbing a rope to the Maxim with a reluctant Usopp. Usopp voices the reasons for his disapproval, including the height they are climbing to and Enel's strength. Sanji is uninterested in hearing this however, as he states that he will not forgive anyone who harms Nami.
Aboard the Maxim, Nami stands defiantly before Enel. As he states there is only one way off of his ship, Nami steels her resolve to face Enel in combat. As Enel chides her for giving up the one chance she had to live, he casually mentions two intruders that have boarded the ship, to Nami's confusion. As they continue to climb the ship, Usopp voices more concern to Sanji about what they may encounter aboard the ship. Sanji implores Usopp to show some guts, as the Mantra ability of Enel and the priests makes a sneak attack impossible. He suggests that they will split up, with one person going directly to Nami's location. Usopp is heavily against the idea of splitting up, but Sanji reminds him that there is no hope of saving Nami if they both get caught together. Usopp is deeply shocked, asking Sanji if he is implying that someone must be sacrificed to save Nami. Sanji grips Usopp's shoulders in assurance, and tells him that he is fine with Usopp being sacrificed for Nami's sake. Before Usopp can fully express his disapproval of the plan, Sanji runs off to save Nami.
Enel has heard Usopp and Sanji's plan, and states to Nami how foolish a rescue attempt is on her behalf. Nami is still perplexed as to who the two assailants may be, given that Luffy was the only person conscious from the crew, and also just how they got aboard the Maxim. Enel fires an electric blast at Nami, however she is able to dodge it in time. Enel states that no one will be rescuing her, as he will be taking her out now. Nami resolves that she must jump from the ship, as she will die if she stays aboard for sure. As she prepares her Clima-Tact, she ponders how she can counter Enel's lightning. Elsewhere aboard the Maxim, Usopp runs through, surprised that both the ship can fly, and that there is apparently no crew present to operate it. He also notices that he recognizes none of the technology, and begins to ponder how they will escape from being so high in the air anyway.
Back at the Shandora Ruins, Nico Robin has regained consciousness and uses her extra appendages to move Zoro and Wyper's bodies to safety. She then silently ponders the coming destruction as she watches the Ark Maxim fly over. On Angel Island, the Skypieans are frantically filling up boats to travel to the White Sea, finally convinced that Conis was right about Enel's plans to destroy the island. In the Shandian Village, the Chieftain encourages all of the Shandians to evacuate, despite the protests of concern about the warriors that are still on God's Island. Assured that Enel will destroy everything, he quietly laments that Wyper did the best he could. Conis watches the Maxim from the Going Merry, remembering meeting the Straw Hats for the first time and hoping that they are all safe. Elsewhere in Upper Yard, Aisa is seen tending to the injured Pierre. Aisa however hears Luffy calling for her, and is immediately infuriated when she sees that he has gotten himself stuck in the ground. After she helps him out, Luffy expresses his annoyance that he cannot remove his arm from the large golden ball that it is encased in. He knows exactly where Enel is heading: the Golden Belfry. Aisa agrees to help him get there.
On the deck of the Maxim, Enel praises Nami's skill with the Clima-Tact. He fires another blast at her, only for her to redirect the flow of electricity with a "shock bubble". He also praises her knowledge of the weather, but states that her trick will not work if he throws a large enough bolt at her with an unpredictable trajectory. As he prepares to do just that, Nami looks on in horror as he bids her farewell, then all of a sudden, Usopp saves her, albeit with a failed attack.

Unfazed by the previous attack, Enel comments on Usopp successfully making his way to the deck. An out of breath Usopp frantically looks around for Sanji, and doesn't see him. Nami's confusion at the matter confirms to the sniper that Sanji truly isn't there, causing him to hastily exit. Annoyed, Nami scolds Usopp for his cowardice. Behind the door Usopp debates whether or not he should go back to face Enel, ultimately deciding that "Captain Usopp" knows no fear.
Now charged up with bravado - he confronts Enel once more, only to narrowly escape a massive lightning attack as soon as he opens the door. Having managed to roll over to Nami, he asks her to save him, but she is furious and instead reprimands him because he was supposed to be rescuing her. Realizing how helpless they truly are, the pair joke about asking God (who coincidentally happens to be their opponent) for guidance. Enel strikes at them again with his lightning, missing them only by a small margin. After dodging, Usopp notices the hat Nami is carrying, which she confirms is indeed Luffy's. Nami mentions that he fell off the Maxim quite some time ago, but Usopp notes that he wouldn't have drowned in the island clouds. The nakama agree to temporarily split in order to divert Enel's focus, and in doing so, Nami notices her waver from before. She states her desire to use it to escape, making Usopp incredulous that she'd jump from such heights. As they speak, another lightning attack forms behind Usopp, which he just barely manages to dodge. He decides to get Enel's attention by implementing his "curse", which ultimately ends up being him just describing incredibly uncomfortable situations to be in. Enel is unfazed, but his diverted attention allows Nami time to get to the waver. As Enel begins to pound Usopp, Nami manages to get on the waver. She notices that Giant Jack would be the perfect spot for her landing, meanwhile Enel finally catches on to their intentions. He vows not to allow the Straw Hats to get away so easily, and blocks Usopp from grabbing Nami's outstretched hand as she rides by, much to their shock. Enel prepares another "God's Judgment", but before he can discharge it, Sanji emerges and kicks Usopp over to Nami. Usopp and Nami notice Enel's powerful attack still charging, but Sanji tells them to escape as he grabs a cigarette. Usopp accelerates the waver out of harm's way to Nami's surprise, as Sanji appears to take the full brunt of the attack.
With Nami and Usopp now rapidly descending, Enel states that simply jumping off of the ship doesn't guarantee them an escape from his attack, beginning to charge another. Sanji however, still standing, taunts Enel for his aim claiming that he was planning to use the attack to light his cigarette. A smug Enel waits for Sanji's next move, but the cook instead makes a cryptic comment about the "face of defeat" being in Enel's future before passing out. The ship immediately proceeds to malfunction, catching Enel by surprise as he realizes that Sanji had sabotaged the Maxim somehow before arriving on the deck. As Enel begins to survey the ship for the extent of the damage, it is revealed that Usopp has used his grappling hook to reach the Maxim after ensuring Nami would land safely. Immediately after returning to deck however, he is startled by the sight of Sanji's incapacitated body.

Usopp yells in horror as he freefalls from the Ark Maxim, Sanji's unconscious body in tow. They land on a layer of clouds, not too far from Nami's location. She sees them land and calls out to her crewmates. Although Usopp lands headfirst and buried into the clouds, he is delighted to know that Nami is ok upon hearing her voice.  Ignoring Usopp's own predicament, she sees Sanji's unconscious body and apologizes for all the trouble that she caused them. Pointing out the giant beanstalk in their area, Nami deduces that they must be on the clouds above Shandora. She points out that Zoro is still at the ruins. Convinced that there is no longer a safe place anywhere on Skypiea, she urges Usopp to get on her waver so that they may find the rest of the crew.
Aboard the Ark Maxim, several systems begin to rupture thanks to Sanji's sabotage. Enel curses the pirates for their meddling, but quickly finds solace in the ship's numerous backup systems. He specifically notes a set of extinct Jet Dials from his hometown of Birka, and states they should be more than enough to keep the ship airborne. He also begins to power up the ship using his own electrical abilities.
At another location in Upper Yard, Aisa carries an unconscious Pierre while trying to direct Luffy in Enel's direction. With the large golden ball still molted on his arm, Luffy decides to move forward by rolling on the ball, much to Aisa's annoyance. They are heading for the beanstalk as well, as Aisa continues to remind Luffy that he is breaking things. When they arrive at Shandora, they are shocked to see that Robin, Zoro, Chopper, and Wyper are no longer there. Aisa concludes that they found a way to climb up, to Luffy's surprise. Aisa then tearfully asks Luffy if Sky Island is going to be destroyed. Robin notices the Maxim flying overhead, now fully convinced that Enel will be heading for the Golden Belfry. Just as she begins to wonder about the crew's whereabouts, Luffy tosses Aisa and Pierre down to her. She catches them using her Devil Fruit ability, which greatly shocks Aisa. Robin attempts to inquire about the ball of gold on Luffy's arm, but Luffy instead asks Robin to confirm that Enel is headed for the golden bell. Once she does, Luffy frantically begins climbing further up the beanstalk pursuing Enel. Robin turns her attention to Aisa and inquires about the location of the rest of the Straw Hats. Just as Aisa begins to note that Nami may no longer be on the Maxim, Nami arrives with Usopp and Sanji's unconscious body. Nami asks Aisa about Luffy's whereabouts, as Usopp notes the unconscious bodies of Zoro, Chopper, Wyper, and Gan Fall. As Usopp points out that they need to be leaving quickly, Nami proposes that the rest of the Straw Hats get to the Going Merry while she chases down Luffy.
On Angel Island, the White Berets continue to frantically evacuate the citizens. They have run out of ships, and must now use dial boats. Realizing the dial boats may not have enough capacity for everyone as well, the captain stresses that it doesn't matter how, but they must get everyone to safety. Again aboard the Maxim, Enel notes that he has finally gotten the ship working again.  The Shandian Chieftain continues to get his own people to safety, after being reminded that Aisa and Wyper are still away from the village. Aboard the Merry, Conis notes that the wind has stopped. Suddenly, a lightning bolt strikes a tree and causes it to fall over in flames. This is followed up by several strikes in different places, as lightning begins to rain down on the island.

At Heaven's Gate, the gate-keeper responsible for charging visitors tries to charge all of the escaping Skypieans an exit fee; completely oblivious to the panic going on around the island. A citizen shouts out warning her to flee as well, as White-White Sea is about to be destroyed. Back at Angel Island, the lightning from Enel's attack is causing devastation to the land, destroying buildings and sealing off exits while the White Berets aid in the evacuation.
On the Going Merry near Upper Yard's shore, Conis and her pet wait patiently as Luffy continues to climb Giant Jack in an attempt to reach Enel. Still waiting in the Shandia Village, the Chief is warned by his fellow people to hurry.
Near the base of the beanstalk, Usopp comments on how close the lightning strikes are getting, only for Nami to tell them all to run to their ship while she leaves to help Luffy, racing up the beanstalk using the Waver. Zoro and Gan Fall awaken, Robin advising them to leave soon. However Wyper does not move, instead watching the destruction the now ecstatic Enel is causing to his homeland. Thinking back to his childhood, Wyper remembers the time when his chief explained to him the one reason his ancestor, Kalgara had to retake their home and ring the bell, and that was for his good friend Mont Blanc Noland.
Going back 400 years into Jaya's past, an exploration crew is attacked by somebody they refer to as "Shandora's Demon." Fearful of the lone man, the crew's captain sets sail without all of his men, however this is all for nothing as the warrior skilfully throws a large iron ball on a chain, severely damaging the fleeing ship. Unable to escape, the crew is defenseless against Kalgara's assault and quickly fall. Warning them to not move if they still wanted to live, he sets fire to the ship's remains and sends the surviving crew away on life boats; relieving them of all their supplies.
Further out on the Grand Line, another exploration crew are seen commenting on the extreme weather. Both the crew and ship in disrepair, they begin to despair and plead for their admiral to aid them. Rather then replying, he jumps overboard and into the ocean. Thinking he had abandoned them and committed suicide, the crew begins to question how he could have broken before them despite having entered the Grand Line twice before. Noticing he had even stripped and folded his clothes before diving, it is not long before a familiar chestnut shape emerges from the water. Getting back on board, the crew welcome him back as a dead Sea King is pulled out of the water, the admiral just killed for food. Complaining about the crew's worthlessness, the admiral is revealed to be none other than Mont Blanc Noland.

Two years into his voyage in the Grand Line, Mont Blanc Noland logs his crew's travels during a fierce storm. He tells his crew to dock at the nearby island because he heard the sound of a bell in the roaring thunder. Meanwhile on the island of Jaya, the populace is dying off one by one due to a disease present on the island. The ill priest on his deathbed exclaims that the only way to appease the gods and lift the curse on the island is by offering the most beautiful woman on Jaya as a sacrifice. A silhouette of a young woman is shown as she sits mending clothes. The priest passes away, and the surviving villagers become distressed and discuss what they can do. One of them notices a blotch on a young man's arm, and Seto runs out of the building screaming. Someone tries to follow him but is told that once the mark of the evil spirit appears, it is too late.
Seto runs into the woods, and he gashes his forearm with a rock and pleads for the blotch to go away. The scene cuts back to the the young woman shown in full, who says that she is glad to offer herself as a sacrifice. Her mother cries and Mousse tries to comfort her by saying that she would give her life to help the villagers. The two embrace as Mousse thanks Herb for raising her. Back in the forest, Kalgara appears before Seto after a hunt, and the young man cries to him about wanting to be a strong warrior and not wanting to die.
Noland and his crew arrive on Jaya, and they tease him for saying he heard a bell when none of them could. They see South Birds fly by and continue to tease their captain until the bell rings loudly for all to hear. Noland approaches the forest and notices Seto who tries to run away at the sight of invaders. He falls from weakness, and the ship's doctor identifies his ailment as Tree Fever. Noland orders the doctor to vaccinate the entire crew with Conine. They walk through the natives' village and find it empty, and Noland demands an answer from Seto. The people gathered at the Sacrificial Altar, and they begin their ceremony, tying Mousse down and offering her blood to the Kami. Herb cries out for her daughter, and the giant snake appears from out of the water.
Kashigami lunges at Mousse to eat her while the villagers watch, but something falls in the water. All of a sudden, Noland appears on the platform and slices off the giant snake's head, killing it. The villagers scream in horror and demand that Noland and Mousse both be killed. Noland tells Mousse that she does not need to die now as the young woman clutches to him crying, and Kalgara stares intensely at the intruder.

The Shandia are in dire panic in the wake of Mont Blanc Noland slaying Kashigami, who they believed to be their God. Noland's own crew begins to panic as well, unsure of what exactly their captain has just gotten them into. As the villagers call upon Kalgara to kill Noland as retribution, the two men stare each other down. Kalgara's daughter, Mousse, begins to weep at the inevitable clash between the two warriors. Noland attempts to reason, but Kalgara is uninterested and rushes him. They exchange taunts during their clash: Noland asks if this is all Kalgara's got, while Kalgara states this is nothing, but at least it's "progress". The Shandia are shocked that Noland is able to match Kalgara in strength. Kalgara sees his daughter watching the fight, and throws her a dagger. He implores her to take her own life to save the village, telling her she should be ashamed. She attempts to comply, but Noland smacks the dagger out of her hand. Kalgara however takes advantage of the opening, impaling Noland through the back of his shoulder. Noland's crew calls out for him in worry, but they are held at knife point by the villagers. Kalgara states that the crime of slaying their God can't be redeemed by Noland's life alone, adding Noland's crew to the retribution. This infuriates Noland, who states it is a shame that the concept of using blood to appease gods still exists in this time and age. He vehemently refuses to be sacrificed, ridiculing the idea of using God as an excuse to take lives. He instead proposes that the Shandia give him time, and he will accomplish the same feat that they intended by sacrificing Mousse's life: curing the village of their sickness. This causes an uproar among the Shandia, and Kalgara reaffirms his intent to kill Noland. Noland however counters that if he were to escape, the villagers would continue their tradition of sacrificing people, which he intends to never let them do again. The Shandia Chieftain however senses Noland's sincerity, and gives Noland a deadline of the next day's sunset to keep his promise while his crew is imprisoned.
As Noland's crew sit in their cell, there are mixed feelings of both doubt and reassurance that he will get the job done. They notice that Mousse is locked up as well in a cell adjacent to them, and some of them wonder how she can live in a village like this. When she inquires about their captain however, the crew universally praises Noland's reputation as an explorer, botanist, and beloved man in general. While Mousse herself has no reaction, this appears to be put the crew at ease, with many of them now wondering what they can do to pass time.
At the chieftain's residence, a few of the villagers question him about why they were not allowed to kill the intruders. He responds that they will have their answers tomorrow, as the village's continued survival is worth the wait. The disgruntled villagers urge Kalgara himself to speak up, who simply states that he will kill Noland immediately at the first sign of trouble. The chieftain agrees to this, saying that since they can no longer hear the voice of their god, he will instead listen to the voice of his people. Kalgara leaves in frustration, only to see Seto outside waiting for him. He asks Seto if he's feeling any better, to which he responds that he is. However, Seto asks Kalgara to elaborate on his meaning of the word "progress" when he said it to Noland during their fight. Elsewhere in the forest, Noland is delighted that he has found exactly what he was looking for: the Kona Tree.
The next day, Noland's crew and the rest of the villagers are awoken by an earthquake. The crew asks to be freed, while the villagers panic that Kashigami is enacting his wrath upon them. Kalgara immediately begins his hunt for Noland, upset with himself that he allowed the explorer to live. The earthquake has drastically changed the landscape of the entire island, causing a very large part of it to sink. Kalgara notices this as he zips through the forest, and eventually discovers Noland wedged in one of the crevices where the island split apart. He taunts Noland, telling him that God did this to him. Noland however retorts that their God must not be that powerful, only being able to take down one man. Kalgara calls him stubborn, and Noland asks why he's come. Kalgara explains that he will kill him for the sake of their god Kashi, and asks if he knows why the earthquake happened. Noland is amused at the thought of the snake causing an earthquake, and jokes that it must want to eat him first. This draws more ire from Kalgara, though Noland continues by reaffirming his intent to get back to the village. Kalgara however, is content to sit and watch Noland attempt to get himself out of his current predicament.

Mont Blanc Noland continues to struggle to no avail to free himself from the large pieces of land he is wedged between. Kalgara watches in amusement, taunting him and wondering how he is staying alive. He reminds Noland that sunset is coming, and his crew will all be slain soon at the hands of the villagers. Kalgara explains that Noland is getting what he deserved for ruining the rituals of his people. Back in the village, the Shandia continue to tend to their sick. However, a group of warriors became enraged at Noland's crew, blaming them for the plague and now the earthquake too. They attempt to impale some of the crew members through the cage, however they are stopped by Seto. Seto reminds them that as warriors of Shandia, they must honor their words.
Back in the forest, Noland continues with all the power he has to try to break free of the earth, this time breaking bones in the process. Although he still makes no progress, his efforts visibly affect the land holding him, impressing Kalgara. The pain does not deter Noland in the slightest, as he continues trying to free himself while Kalgara watches intently.
In the village, Seto's efforts ultimately do not stop the villagers from taking Noland's crew to the sacrificial altar. They plead that their captain is not back yet and attempt to appeal to Seto to get them to stop, but he is unable to do anything. Kalgara informs Noland that it is twilight, and the ritual should be starting back in the village. He tells him that he looks pathetic, and wonders how Noland was able to survive this long in his predicament. Noland asks just what the villagers are so afraid of, to the point that they're gladly willing to throw away innocent lives. Kalgara questions Noland on what he means by "gladly", and Noland states that the villagers sacrifice their own peers and feel good about it. This enrages Kalgara to the point that he cuts Noland off by kicking him in the face. He tells Noland to quit acting like he knows everything, and that the Shandia have lived this way for centuries. Noland retorts that being such a long tradition doesn't make it right, angering Kalgara further. He goes on to chastise Kalgara for being so willing to kill an innocent girl without batting an eye, even calling the actions of the villagers inhuman. Kalgara again questions Noland's use of the word "gladly", before angrily yelling that Mousse is actually his daughter. This fact only causes Noland to criticize Kalgara further, saying he has no mercy for even his own child. Kalgara replies that the voice of their God, spoken through the mouth of their priest, is absolute, asking Noland if he can understand such a concept. Since the words of their god is absolute, he cannot disobey God's Will even for the sake of his own family. In the Shandia village, Noland's crew has been brought to the altar, desperately crying out for their captain as they realize they are about to be burned.
As Kalgara and Noland continue their argument, a giant snake emerges from the forest, still eating a large feline creature. This is the god known as Jaya, and is Kashigami's offspring. Kalgara tells Noland that Jaya has come to punish him. Noland angrily asks Kalgara if he is dying here because of God's Judgment, or an accident. Continuing this line of thought, he also asks if their village is actually dying from a curse, or a disease. Noland reveals that 60 years ago, his home was suffering from the exact same disease that Shandia are. The plague ravaged his people at 90 percent death rate, but thanks to the breakthroughs of herbalists, the death rate of the disease is now less than 3 percent. He explains that the cure was synthesized from extracts of the Kona Tree, which he now has in his possession. He stresses that he has the tools to save the entire village, and that many researchers died to ensure the creation of the cure. Yet, their sacrifice is being stepped on by the superstitions of the Shandia, which is why he feels their rituals are an affront to mankind and the true root of evil. This causes Kalgara to remember the Chieftain's words of doing his best to listen to the voices of his people. Jaya attempts to devour Noland, but Kalgara intervenes and kills the gigantic snake. Standing on Jaya's corpse, Kalgara asks Noland what he just killed. Noland replies that it is a snake. Kalgara angrily retorts that what his people call a God, Noland merely calls a snake. He continues that the curse that has been killing everyone, Noland merely calls a curable disease. Now in tears, Kalgara asks Noland if he can truly save his people, to which Noland replies that he can.
At the rise of the full moon, various villagers are seen being cured and rejoicing with their families. Seto smiles at all the happy families, while Kalgara tearfully embraces his daughter as Herb watches in tears as well. As Noland himself is given medical attention, his crew and the Shandia celebrate together.

A small snake emerges in the forest, alarming a few of Mont Blanc Noland's crew. Now up and about after his injuries, Noland notices the snake's resemblance to Jaya and Kashigami. He asks Kalgara if he may be "Its" descendant, and Kalgara asks for clarification, however refers to it as a "snake" as well. Realizing Kalgara's change in philosophy, both men share a roar of laughter together. The newfound camaraderie between the two puzzles some of Noland's crew and the Shandians alike, but they are nonetheless happy to see the men getting along.
Kalgara decides that he wants to show Noland something. He takes his crew to an area of the forest that leads down to some ancient ruins. As they descend the steps, Noland hears the sound of a bell, knowing that he's heard it before. They ultimately arrive in a city made completely gold, with a large belfry at it's center. Noticing Noland's astonishment, Kalgara explains that this is the city of Shandora, and that the Shandians are the descendants of the people who lived here. Noland's crew can't contain their excitement and rush off, with Noland warning them not to take what isn't theirs. Kalgara however gives the crew permission to take as much of the gold as they can carry, except for the Golden Belfry. This is the Shandian's repayment for all that Noland has done to save them. Noland rebuts that his people have been guarding this place for centuries, but Kalgara clarifies that they were guarding the city, not the treasure. Being more specific, he states that what they are truly guarding is the poneglyph at the base of the belfry. While none of the Shandians are able to decipher the message of the ancient stone, one thing Kalgara knows for sure is that the city of Shandora was decimated for defending the poneglyph. He explains that it is thus the will of his people to protect the past and what remains of it at all costs. The sound of the bell acts as a beacon for the spirits of their deceased ancestors to find their way home, after they have descended to heaven. Kalgara further explains that the bell represents the prosperous days of Shandora, and that they ring it to the four corners of the world with no fear of intruders. For this reason, they refer to the Golden Belfry as "The Light of Shandora". Noland in turn offers his testament, relaying the story of how he was able to follow the sound of the bell through the treacherous storms his crew faced out at sea. He notices that the same snake from earlier has followed them, as he also seems to really like the bell. Noland asks if it will become large too, and the snake smiles gleefully in agreement.
Kalgara offers Noland and his crew extended stay as the first welcomed guests of the city. Noland accepts, stating that they still have plants to collect and people to cure. Some of Noland's crew discover an Eternal Pose, as well as a map of Jaya. Noland notes that Shandora ultimately leads to the "right eye of the skull" on the map.
Noland's crew and the Shandians work together on a variety of tasks including rebuilding the village after the destruction of the earthquake, gathering more vegetation, and fishing (the snake joins in here). They celebrate at night by dancing around a campfire, with Mousse personally making sure Noland joins in. The bond between Noland and Kalgara continues to strengthen as they work together, with Noland even being allowed to ring the Golden Belfry himself.
A month later, there is suddenly incredible tension again between the two groups. The Chieftain warns the villagers to return to their homes if they cannot control their emotions. One of the Shandians vents that Noland's crew will always be "god-slayers", and that they have no respect, but is cut off by someone announcing the arrival of Noland's crew. Noland asks everyone if Kalgara is around, but he is met with silence and glares from the villagers. Noland then asks Seto what is going on, who replies that Kalgara is not interested in seeing Noland ever again. Seto angrily asks when Noland is leaving, and Noland is speechless. A few of Noland's crew asks about they have done to upset them again, but Noland stops them. He implores his crew to get back to work, as there are still parts of the forest that they need to check. A few Shandians approach Kalgara at the Shandora ruins to notify him of Noland's crew, but he angrily retorts that he will for sure kill Noland if he sees him again.
Noland's crew has been ousted and is taking refuge at the beach by their ship. One of the crew notes that the bell didn't ring today, and wonders where Noland is. The crew doctor approaches Noland, who is sleeping in isolation. He reminds Noland that they should be done with their work in another two days, and Noland asks that he relay this message to the rest of the crew. The doctor voices a small amount of resistance to the plan, but Noland tells him that they are done talking.

Mont Blanc Noland briefly reflects on his friendship with Kalgara, from the latter suggesting that Noland remain in Jaya and marry his daughter Mousse, to all of a sudden being told that Kalgara never wants to see him again. Noland returns to the golden city of Shandora, convinced that Kalgara will be there. He implores Kalgara to explain his sudden shift in attitude towards him, but Kalgara responds by throwing a spear at Noland. Noland barely manages to dodge the spear, being sliced on the cheek  as it passes by. Kalgara warns Noland to leave his presence if he doesn't want to be killed, and Noland complies without objection.
Noland and his crew continue their work in the forest, as the Shandians eagerly await the departure of the crew with passive-aggressive attitudes. The small snake that befriended Noland and Kalgara is deeply saddened by Kalgara's refusal to ring the bell, as Kalgara states that it no longer means anything. Later that night, Noland's crew notices that Noland hasn't eaten anything as they discuss their imminent departure from the village. They again note that the bell did not ring, and that the villagers seem to be full of murderous intent for reasons they do not understand. Noland, Mousse, and the snake all observe the full moon in different mental states: the snake is still saddened at the bell not ringing, Mousse appears to be in deep thought, and Noland is still upset at the broken bond between himself and Kalgara. Mousse decides to leave, and the crew doctor also observes the moon and drinks as the rest of the crew has gone to sleep. Mousse approaches the doctor from the shadows hoping to talk, as the doctor is greatly startled at her presence.
Kalgara sits among a multitude of tree stumps in the forest of Jaya, confused and frustrated that Noland's crew has chopped down so many of their trees. He asks if this was all the sacrifice for Noland's healing, lamenting that he ever allowed Noland to stay. Mousse explains to the crew doctor that the trees they have cut down are known as the Forest of Embodiment, and they house the souls of the Shandian ancestors. The sound of the bell guides the souls to this forest, where their souls rest. To the Shandians, it is their duty to guard the forest, as it is more important than their lives. The doctor finally understands why the Shandians are upset with them, and Mousse further explains that they haven't acted on their feelings because they are still grateful for the crew saving their lives. Although the Shandians understand that there was no way the crew could have known this, they are nonetheless upset at the desecration of what was considered holy ground.
The next day as the crew prepares to leave, Noland finally understands his transgression. The doctor attempts to justify the crew's actions as necessary, but Noland states that they can't find excuses for themselves. In an attempt to set things right, he orders his crew to give back all the gold that the Shandians allowed them to take. Mousse runs back to the Shandian Village in haste, seeking her father. When she finds him she drops down before him in tears, asking if the Shandians would have chopped down the trees as well if they knew that the trees were making their people sick. She begs her father to let the crew stay, emphasizing that the Shandians will regret it forever if they allow their relationship to dissolve like this. Remembering Kalgara and Noland's bond, she tells her father that he will make the "Savior of Shandora" sad for the rest of his life if he does not rectify this. As Kalgara demands for his daughter to explain, Mousse recalls more details of her discussion with the doctor the night before: The doctor explains that the Forest of Embodiment was actually already dead, to Mousse's shock. He notes that Tree Fever spreads by using the trees themselves as a medium for infestation, so anyone who enters the forest became infected. Furthermore, the disease has claimed countless lives, so the one hundred casualties that the Shandians suffered is truly nothing compared to what would have happened without Noland's intervention. Once an infected tree is found, it, as well as all other surrounding trees must be cut down in order to prevent the infestation from spreading. He concludes that they have dealt with the infestation in it's entirety however, so the island is now completely safe. The trees were cut down out of necessity, not with the intention of disrespecting the Shandian's ancestors. The Shandians are horrified by their grave error in judgment, finally realizing that Noland was protecting Shandora as well. Kalgara quickly races off, despite the cries from the Shandians that Noland's ship is probably long gone.
Aboard Noland's ship, the crew is excited to head back to Lvneel, though there a few crewmates that are saddened by having to leave the gold. As Kalgara races through the forest, he thinks to himself about how he was wrong about Noland, hoping that his friend will wait for him. As Noland's ship departs the cost, the crew notices that the bell is finally ringing once again. The entire Shandian village is working together to ring the bell, apologetic for their treatment of Noland and determined to make sure that Noland hears the bell. Kalgara runs to the shore and shouts for Noland, who happens to still be close enough to see and hear him. Kalgara pleads for his friend to come back some day, telling him that he will be waiting and ringing the bell for him. He promises that the Shandians will guard this place no matter what, and to not let any storms stop him from coming back, as the bell will always be ringing for him until he does. Kalgara states that they will once again be friends, and Noland tearfully promises that they will meet again.

Some time ago, in a country in the North Blue, Mont Blanc Noland is shown in his village. It is revealed that Noland told outrageous and hard-to-believe stories to the children, and despite the fact that no one could tell if the stories were true, they liked him nonetheless. One day, after returning from a grand expedition, Noland tells the king that he had discovered the ruins of a great city, Shandora, which was literally made of gold. The king, excited about this new prospect of wealth, grants Noland permission to take three ships into the Grand Line five years after he had returned. As the admiral of the exploration team, Noland would take the king and his royal soldiers instead of Noland's usual crews. The king insists that he and Noland shall travel on the same ship for safety, but Noland warns the king to be prepared for the tough times to come.
On their journey through the Grand Line, the group encounters a sea monster, takes fierce winds that could tear the sail to shreds, nearly runs into icebergs, and lost one of their ships. The king and the soldiers cry for Noland to help them, but Noland states that the soldiers are not good at sailing, and that in order to ensure the safety of the king, some of the ships have to be sacrificed. Finally, on November 16, 1127, the groups arrives at Jaya, which Noland is certain is the same island that he had come to before. The king and the soldiers are excited, but all they see is a small cliff next to the ocean and half of a building. Noland is shocked, and wonders where the rest of the island is, but the king kicks him, calling him an incompetent fool. The king is furious, asking Noland why he lied, and where the gold is the Noland promised. Noland, still in shock, wonders where the Shandia went. He asks Kalgara, if he is still alive, to ring the bell, the light of Shandora.
Six months later, back in Lvneel in the North Blue, Noland is asked to restate his claim to the public. Noland holds by his statement, saying that he had seen a golden city in Jaya six years ago. A man who apparently sailed with Noland is brought forth and asked how much of the story is true. The man replies that it is all a lie, making the people think of Noland as scum for pretending to be an adventurer. Some of Noland's real crew members, seeing their admiral on the execution stand, rush forward, saying that the man who had disputed Noland's claims was never with them on their journey. They ask Noland if he reunited with Kalgara, but the king orders for them to be taken away before they can continue. For making false claims to the king, Noland is then sentenced to a public execution, with the crowd calling him a liar. Noland's crew tries to argue, but Noland can do nothing but wonder where Kalgara went.
The year before Noland's execution, in Shandora, Kalgara walks off to ring the golden bell, and is accompanied by Seto. Seto stops momentarily to feed the snake, Nola, as Kalgara proceeds up the stairs to the bell. Seto wonders when Noland will return, but Kalgara states that it is not an easy trip to make, but as long as the bell is ringing, Noland promised to eventually return. Suddenly, the sky turns dark, and something resembling an earthquake occurs. Kalgara tells Seto to stay calm and return to the village, but the Knock Up Stream shoots Shandora into the sky, causing it to land on the gigantic beanstalk on Upper Yard. The impact causes the golden bell to ring, amazing the Skypieans, causing the god of Skypiea want to live there. Finding people there, he decides to banish them. In Shandora itself, everyone is trying to find out if they are accounted for, when Skypiean warriors rush in, claiming the land for their god. Kalgara, finding it difficult to breathe, says to hide the women and children and yells that he does not care who they are, they cannot have their home. Kalgara thinks that he made a deal with Noland, and that he will let him know that he is still there eventually. He continues, saying that although many things have changed, he will relight the light of Shandora.

In a flashback, a young Wyper hears more of the Shandian history from the village chief. He expands upon Kalgara's rallying cries to "Relight the Light of Shandora", so that his friend Mont Blanc Noland would know that the Shandians are still there. Wyper listens intently as the chief explains that the bell was never rung again, and how they later learned from their friends at sea that Noland had been executed. He was executed because he persisted in his claims that the City of Gold truly existed, and was publicly shamed as a liar at the execution. Ever since, all stories about the existence of Shandora have been denied without exception. The chief reveals that Kalgara never learned the truth about Noland's fate before he gave his life defending the land, and that for generations the Shandians have been trying to fulfill his wish. Wyper cuts him off, stating that when he grows up, he will ring the bell. Wyper asks if Noland will hear it. This brings the chief to tears, affirming that Noland will indeed be able to hear because they are so close to heaven.
In the present, Wyper watches the destruction of Skypiea in horror as Enel continues to rain down lightning bolts in every direction. Aisa urges that they must run away, or be destroyed as well. Wyper ponders what right Enel has to take everything from his people. As Enel continues to float above in the Ark Maxim, he spots the Shandian Village. He claims that since the Shandian ancestors came from the Blue Sea, they should return to where they belong, as he discharges a powerful lightning bolt on the village. Homes, totems, and other valuables are instantly destroyed, yet the statue of Kalgara remains standing firm. The Shandians look on in horror, having previously evacuated to a safer location.
On Angel Island, the White Berets are still evacuating the citizens to safety at sea as quickly as possible. People are frantically running and screaming as the lightning continues to cause unprecedented destruction. McKinley laments on the tragedy that has befallen Skypiea, and shudders to think of how much worse it would have been had they not listed to Conis' warning. Just then, a large lightning bolt appears to completely decimate Angel Island. At the Going Merry's location, Conis reflects on the sequence of events from her initially reporting the Straw Hats, to Pagaya's injury at Enel's hands.
Aboard the Maxim, Enel sadistically laughs at the chaos he has caused, as he charges even more lightning to destroy the island. At Heaven's Gate on the White Sea, a few citizens notice that someone has fallen through the clouds. Enel passes by God's Shrine in his ship, and destroys it in the process, stating that it no longer serves a purpose. The consequential debris from the explosion lands in the Shandora Ruins, in the proximity of an unconscious Nola. Enel affirms that his only interest now is the golden bell. Coincidentally, Wyper asks Nico Robin about the bell, having heard her speak of it before. Realizing that's where Enel is headed, he asks Robin about the location. She tells him that Giant Jack penetrated the city of Shandora near it's center, and the center is where the bell was originally located, so the bell must be somewhere near the top.
Enel pauses for a moment, realizing that there are two "voices" approaching him. Nami is on Luffy's tail, who is running towards Enel under the impression that Nami is still aboard the Maxim. Luffy states that he will not let Enel get away.

Enel finally reaches the summit of Giant Jack, noting that he is likely the first person to ever reach this height. As he begins surveying for the Golden Bell however, he hears Luffy running up the beanstalk, the large golden ball molted on his arm ringing with each step. Luffy himself briefly stops at the ruins of God's Shrine, wondering if he's reached the top. Enel addresses Luffy, expressing his surprise that he managed to drag the huge golden ball all the way up the beanstalk with him. Luffy charges Enel demanding that he stop running and fight him, but Enel strikes the top portion of Giant Jack with lightning, causing it to break and fall over. This sends Luffy plummeting back down, admonishing Enel for his under-handed tactics.
From the Straw Hats location near the beanstalk, Wyper is attempting to climb as well despite the group's protest that he will get himself killed. Usopp however, notices something falling down towards them. It turns out to be the charred beanstalk, and they just barely manage to dodge it falling on them. This causes Robin to wonder just what's going on towards the top of the beanstalk, and Aisa reminds Wyper not to get himself hurt. Wyper expresses his frustration, knowing how close he is to the bell and fulfilling Kalgara's wish.
Towards the top of Giant Jack, Luffy has managed to break his fall by stretching his arm completely around the circumference of the beanstalk. Enel notices him still hanging on, and decides to taunt him. Enel asks him to stay right where he is, as he has something "special" to show him. Enel disappears, and Luffy suddenly notices a huge opening in the sky above Angel Island. Rather than wait around Luffy decides that now is the best time to try and board the Maxim, and he hoists himself back up to the ruins of God's Shrine. Before he can make another move however, he gets completely run over from behind by Nami in her waver. Luffy wonders how Nami got there, and she explains that Sanji and Usopp helped save her, much to Luffy's delight. As they begin to discuss their next move, they notice a huge spherical cloud appearing in the opening above Angel Island. The Skypieans present at Angel Island notice this as well, and frantically begin trying to escape. Nami points out that the cloud is much more condensed with electricity than normal, as the Straw Hats notice it from their location as well. Gan Fall is absolutely horrified at what he sees. Enel reappears aboard the Maxim, boasting his superiority in the skies with the Ark Maxim. The Shandians, the Skypieans that managed to escape Angel Island to the White Sea in ships, as well those still present on Angel Island all look on in absolute terror as Enel drops "Raigo" on Angel Island. In a blinding flash of light the entire island is decimated by lightning, leaving nothing but a gigantic crater in its place.
The onslaught of lightning strikes immediately resumes, much to Usopp's chagrin. Gan Fall is beside himself with grief, extremely distraught that Enel could be such a heartless monster. Back at God's Shrine, Nami implores Luffy to get aboard her waver so that they may escape back to the Going Merry. Luffy refuses, to her shock. He explains that although he no longer needs to save her, he still has business that he needs to take care of. Nami assumes that he means fighting Enel, but he reminds her that the Golden Bell is here. Nami states that while the gold is indeed important, Enel still has the capability of destroying the entire island, and Luffy along with it. Luffy reminds Nami that she has seen the golden city of Shandora now with her own eyes, so they now have proof that Mont Blanc Noland's story was not a lie. In a brief flashback, Luffy remembers Mont Blanc Cricket stating that his ambition to find the golden city was not for the sake of clearing his ancestor's name, but for settling a duel between himself and the man who ruined his life. Luffy is determined to tell Cricket that his ancestor wasn't lying, and that the golden city has been right here in the sky all these years. Luffy states that if he is able to ring the bell really loud, Cricket should be able to hear it, and thus stop endangering his life by constantly diving into the depths of the ocean to find the city. Luffy refuses to let Enel take that bell away, for that reason. He announces his intention to ring the bell so loud that everyone on the blue seas will hear it, and that he is staying here no matter what until he does.

As the Ark Maxim continues to fly above Skypiea and lightning rains down from every direction, Luffy is finally able to make contact with the ship. Enel however instantly appears and kicks Luffy's hand off the edge of the boat, stating that he did not invite him to be there. Luffy plummets back down to Nami's location along Giant Jack. Nami reminds Luffy that such a plan wouldn't work, as Luffy expresses his frustration. Enel taunts the pair for their first-hand view of his "Raigoh" attack, and tells Nami that it's too late if she is thinking of rejoining him. As Nami retorts that she would never have joined him anyway, Enel states his plan to completely destroy Skypiea with another Raigoh as soon as he finds what he wants. This triggers Luffy to pursue Enel again, but Enel hits the beanstalk with lightning once more, causing him to fall down. Enel bids farewell to Luffy, telling him to just stay there and wait for his impending doom, as no one can stop it now. This time Luffy grabs Nami's waver to pursue Enel up the beanstalk, but Enel again strikes it to knock Luffy back down to Nami's location. In a fit of frustration, Luffy reaffirms his intent to ring the Golden Bell as he recalls Mont Blanc Cricket's tireless efforts to help them get to Skypiea.
As Nami sits in awe at her captain's resolve, Zoro and Robin also briefly reflect on their adventures with Luffy after the crew initially split in search for the Golden City. They recall Luffy asking if a Golden Bell would be there, to which Robin confirmed according to Mont Blanc Noland's diary. Zoro and Chopper ask Luffy why he wants to know, to which Luffy responds with his own question: he asks if Cricket, Masira, and Shoujou will be able to hear it if he rings the Golden Bell. In the present, Zoro, Robin, Gan Fall, Usopp, Wyper and Aisa discuss this revelation. They realize Luffy has the same target as Enel, and Wyper is surprised to hear that Luffy wants to ring the bell too. Zoro notes that if his captain said he would do such a thing, then there is nothing than Nami can do to convince him otherwise.
Elsewhere in Skypiea, the rescued inhabitants of Angel Island note that Heaven's Gate has been destroyed along with the island, essentially trapping them with no access to the White Sea. They eventually come to the realization that they are sitting ducks, unable to do anything but watch as they prepare to meet the same fate that befell Angel Island. They also notice that due to the constant lightning strikes, the sea below them is slowly vanishing as well. Enel notices a shiny object in the distance, and stops the Ark Maxim on a cloud after realizing he has found what he is looking for. He stands in delight before the Golden Bell of Shandora, and comments that he will be taking it with him to Fairy Vearth.
Back at the Straw Hats location, Usopp notices something falling down toward them, and frantically tells everyone to dive away. It turns out to just be a huge leaf, but Aisa notices that something is written on it. Realizing it is a message from Luffy and Nami, Robin reads it aloud. The message tells them to cut down Giant Jack, and make it fall westward. As the crew contemplates the intention behind Luffy and Nami's plan, they are suddenly awestruck when they notice a Raigoh above Skypiea that is even bigger than the one that destroyed Angel Island. Luffy and Nami notice the gigantic ball of lightning in the sky as well, and remembering his threat from earlier, Nami deduces that Enel must have found the Golden Bell where the Ark Maxim has stopped. As Luffy hopes that the crew below got his message, he questions why Nami is not running away now that he has a plan that will work. Nami asserts that Luffy does not know how to control the waver, and thus she is entrusting her life to her captain with this final chance that they have. Below them, the crew realizes that Nami and Luffy will be using Giant Jack as a bridge to get to the Ark Maxim's current location. Usopp believes the plan is suicide, but Zoro explains that they won't actually know until they try it. A lightning bolt crashes down right next to them near the base of beanstalk, prompting Zoro and Wyper to direct everyone else to safety. Wyper makes a mental note they that have to accomplish this before Enel brings down his ultimate attack on Skypiea. Zoro states that the survival of Sky Island now rests on Luffy's shoulders, and he charges forth toward the beanstalk.

The chapter opens with Zoro preparing to cut the giant beanstalk, Giant Jack, with Usopp, Gan Fall, Wyper, Aisa and Robin plus an unconscious Chopper, all watching on, commenting that Zoro is the only one who can cut it. Meanwhile Enel, on top of the Golden Bell, talks of his plans to destroy Skypiea with Raigo before conquering the world underneath the Sky Island, while thunderbolts rain down below. Zoro, avoiding them, manages to slice a wedge out of the beanstalk before succumbing to a direct hit by a thunderbolt, collapsing through a layer of cloud into the ruins of Shandora. Usopp swears, stating that at least Zoro managed to cut the plant, before Robin points out that, despite Zoro's efforts, the beanstalk still stands.
Elsewhere, after a brief image of the statue of Kalgara in the Shandia village, Nola lies unconscious after the events of the trials. She dreams of accompanying Kalgara and Seto to ring the Golden Bell as a small snake, before the two vanished, ignoring her cries; awakening and upset, she slams her head into the beanstalk, causing a massive vibration of the cloud layer. The survivors of the trials are surprised by the vibration, having not known that Nola had caused it, with Usopp labeling it a 'cloudquake'. Again, despite the giant snake's efforts, the beanstalk only tilts slightly before stopping. Robin proposes that a bigger impact is required.
At this time Conis is on the Going Merry, lamenting at how there is no hope now and that if she had told the Straw Hat Pirates the truth about God, she would not have dragged them into 'this mess'. The Shandia and the Skypieans are also located on the sea of cloud, waiting for the conflict to run its course, with the captain of the Skypieans stating, 'Men... can never win against nature'.
Returning to the survivors of the trials, Wyper becomes angry at Luffy for wanting to ring the Golden Bell, stating that only a descendant of Kalgara can perform the task. Aisa attempts to dissuade him, but is ignored. Usopp tells Robin to ignore Wyper as he is 'half dead', assuring the group that he can use his abilities to topple the beanstalk. When Wyper tells Usopp to stop, Robin interjects, telling him the tale of an explorer who said he had found the Golden City but was later labelled a liar. She then mentions a descendant who has risked his life trying to find the city and explains that Luffy is trying to indicate that the Golden City does indeed exist. A thunderbolt suddenly slams into the trees behind the group dramatically before Wyper asks for this descendant's name. Robin replies, 'Mont Blanc Cricket'; Wyper immediately recognizes the family name and asks if the original explorer was Mont Blanc Noland, crying while doing so. Robin says 'Yes', causing him to wonder if this was Kalgara's will; he then pushes Usopp aside, who had up until now been trying to fell the beanstalk with his slingshot, before pouncing onto the plant and using his Reject Dial, punching a hole straight through it.
The rest of the group are shocked by the impact, with Gan Fall criticizing the usage of the tool again by Wyper, who collapses to the floor, severely wounded, willing for the plant to break. Finally, after the third attempt at felling it, the beanstalk begins to topple.
Up the beanstalk, Nami notices the beanstalk tilting, before turning the Jet Dial on the Waver to its highest level, having doubts as to whether she can control it or not. Luffy, also on the Waver, however encourages Nami, telling her 'I trust you!' After this, the duo begin to power up the side of the plant towards Enel. The Shandia and the Skypieans then spot the beanstalk toppling as well from the sea of cloud.
The chapter ends with the survivors of the trials encouraging Luffy and Nami, before Enel spots them commenting on their eagerness to die and directing a thunderbolt directly at them and the island below.

The chapter opens with Enel laughing as thunderbolts strike the base of the giant beanstalk, hindering the progress of Nami and Luffy on their waver, whilst also destroying Upper Yard in the process, much to the Skypieans's and Usopp's horror. Nami realizes that Enel is trying to destroy the foundations of the plant to cause it to fully topple, preventing them from fighting him. Enel then shouts to Luffy that, although he is immune to electricity, he will not be able to reach him; Nami comments on how he is not eager to fight Luffy, who replies with, 'He will not get away that easily!'
Meanwhile, the survivors of the trials, Usopp, Robin, Gan Fall and Aisa, watch on as the cloud layer beneath the beanstalk dissipates away, with the Sky Island also crumbling away, cursing at how Zoro and Wyper are still left in the Shandora Ruins, which are beginning to crumble, much to Robin's dismay. A heavily injured Wyper then stands, shouting at Enel that, no matter how much he destroys, he will never destroy the history of Shandora and the pride of the Shandia's existence, before stating, 'Shandora will never crumble under your wickedness!' Enel mocks him by acting ignorant, as another thunderbolt hammers into Upper Yard. Gan Fall reflects on Wyper's words stating that God's Island will never fall, before concluding that none of the Sky People actually have any right to claim it as their own, amazed at how nobody has thought of this for the past 400 years.
The beanstalk then begins to fall further, with Usopp keeping Aisa from running into its path. Wyper silently encourages Luffy, as the Waver leaps off the beanstalk towards the ark Maxim, with Luffy screaming 'I'm coming, Enel! Give back the Golden Bell!' Enel says that Luffy is too late, stating that the thundercloud is large enough for him to destroy the Sky Island and him, before unleashing Raigo, as everyone watches on. Luffy thanks Nami, jumping off the Waver towards the thundercloud itself, much to Enel's surprise, with Nami screaming that Luffy would die, due to the high air pressure and electric current. Enel laughs, asking him how he can defeat an absolute power, whilst the beanstalk fully falls to the ground. Luffy performs Gomu Gomu no Hanabi: Ougon Botan, spinning his body around, whilst colliding the large golden ball attached to his arm with the thundercloud, determined not to let any of his allies down. These collisions produces a large amount of light, which confuses Nami, whilst Enel is shocked, realizing that Luffy is using the golden ball as an electrical conductor, removing the current from the thundercloud.
Elsewhere the Skypieans and the Shandia are both praying for the conflict to be over, with Conis wondering if there is a God and asks it for a miracle, to save them from Enel. The chapter then ends with Luffy causing the thundercloud to disperse, much to the surprise of Enel.

Everyone present in Skypiea looks to the sky in absolute shock, as Luffy has completely dispelled Enel's "Raigo" attack meant to destroy the entire country. Many of the citizens wonder exactly how this could have happened, as Usopp praises his captain. Amongst the Shandora ruins by Giant Jack, Wyper looks on in shock as well before exclaiming to Luffy to relight the Light of Shandora. Gan Fall agrees, pleading that Luffy will allow everyone to once again hear the "song of the island".
Aboard the Maxim, Enel is mortified that Luffy has easily discharged his most powerful attack yet, as well as having once again made it to his position. Luffy states that this time, he will be the one knocking Enel off. Incensed at Luffy once again foiling his plans, Enel transforms into his ultimate state, 200 Million Volt Amaru. Enel asks if Luffy is trying to ring the bell due to the legend of its sound signifying the end of a war, and then admonishes him for believing in such nonsense. Again boasting of his strength as a god, he shocks Luffy in his new form. Luffy simply shrugs it off however, reminding Enel that electricity is useless against him as he delivers a swift kick across his face. Luffy stops suddenly however, as Enel reminds him that he has another weapon: he has stabbed Luffy in the back with his trident. Nami cries out for her captain, as Luffy agonizes from the heat of the trident. Enel taunts Luffy for his predicament, as it is Luffy's twisted arm that is actually pushing the trident deeper into him. Enel states that the only way to escape is to fall all the way back down, as he commends Luffy for making it to him once again. Luffy briefly reflects on Conis' tears over the responsibilities that are forced on the citizens of Skypiea, as well as Aisa tearfully asking him if Sky Island was truly going to disappear. He unwinds himself off of the trident, prompting Enel to taunt him once again for choosing to fall to his doom. As he plummets, Nami calls out to him. Luffy assures his navigator that he is coming back up however, as he breaks his fall by grabbing onto the edge of a cloud. Enel is astonished, and Luffy promises the god that he is going down. Luffy springs back up into the air, once again twisting his outstretched arm with the golden ball on it. Once he reaches Enel's level again, he exclaims to the god that he will make the bell ring no matter what. Enel has now drawn a second trident, promising to pierce Luffy through the heart this time. Luffy begins letting his arm unwind, and fires "Gomu Gomu no Ogon Rifle" at Enel with unprecedented speed. Enel is smashed in the face before he can even react, instantly shattering some of his teeth. His body is then violently propelled backward from the momentum of the punch.
A series of flashbacks begin across Skypiea as Enel flies backward. As Wyper looks on, he is reminded of Kalgara's promise to Noland that he would ring the bell to let him know that his people are there waiting for him. Aisa and the Shandian Chief remember the beginning of the Shandian campaign in Upper Yard to reclaim the land. Nola, despite being heavily injured, remembers its sorrow when neither Noland nor Kalgara were around any longer to ring the bell. Conis remembers Gan Fall's optimism that the song of the island would eventually play once again, as she and other Skypieans look to the sky in prayer. Usopp enthusiastically cheers on Luffy, though the rest of the Straw Hats tell him to keep it down as Chopper, Pierre, and Zoro recover from their injuries. Luffy himself remembers Mont Blanc Cricket's love for adventure, and how adamant he was that no one has ever been able to prove that the Sky Island and the "City of Gold" do not exist. As Luffy finally slams Enel's body into the Golden Bell, he thinks to himself if Cricket can hear it, and realize that the Golden City has been here in the sky for the past 400 years.

Luffy finally defeats Enel by punching him straight into the golden bell. The golden bell rings, and Luffy hopes everyone can hear the ringing of the bell. Luffy shouts if Mont Blanc Cricket and the other members of the Saruyama Alliance can hear it.
Meanwhile, Enel collapses. Luffy strikes a cool pose, and the South Birds make sounds. Mont Blanc Noland's theory about Shandora comes true when Luffy rings the golden bell. The Straw Hats comment on the beautiful sound of the bell, and Usopp said that Luffy did it. Cricket know this day would come when Luffy rings the bell. The Skypieans too comment that the bell, after 400 years, has rung again and could not believe their ears. The Shandia too comment, and Wyper hopes Cricket could hear it. Nola, upon hearing the ringing of the golden bell, cries out in joy. The Saruyama Alliance too mention the excitement. Masira says the sound of the bell come from the sky, and Shoujou finally knows, why those "giants" always appear only when the "Imperial Cumulus" appears.
Cricket explains that when the sunlight is blocked by people standing high in the sky, the shadows cast on the fog below will be very big enough for people to mistaken them as giants in the fog. Masira inquires on how shadows could be formed in the sky and how people could stand in the sky. Cricket confirms that the sound of the bell from the sky is undeniable proof of that fact, the golden city truly exists and is floating in the sky, and that the fact that Mont Blanc Noland is not a liar, again confirming that he was the one who sent them from the sky.
As Luffy's shadow is in the sky, the Saruyama Alliance thanks Luffy for telling them that the golden city is in the sky. Cricket cries, telling Shoujou and Masira that the Straw Hats are alive and kicking in the sky and he was worried about them. After that, Enel and the Maxim falls.
Everyone celebrates the defeat of Enel, the fact that the golden city does exist, despite the bell not being rung for 400 years. Luffy thinks that everyone heard the bell, and Nami agrees. With that, they used the bell as a medium of message to spread hope and blessing to the corners of the world. The Skypieans and the Shandia tell the Straw Hats that they will always be there for them.

The Shandia and the Skypieans are in the ruins of Shandora, trying to prepare to return to their homeland to rebuild their previous homelands as they were destroyed by Enel. Raki asks Aisa if she was worried about her treasure, and Aisa replies that it is not important. Kamakiri calls out to Raki.
Sanji and Zoro talks about Wyper, with Sanji asking why they have to treat Wyper, Zoro replied saying that Wyper is an honorable warrior. Aisa asks Chopper if he can tend to Wyper. Sanji then proceeds to ask Usopp and Robin where the other Straw Hats are and what happened to the golden bell.
Kamakiri asks Raki if leaving Wyper with the Straw Hats is okay. Raki replies that it will be fine as Aisa also trusts them. The Skypieans rounded up all the priests and banished them to a desert cloud. Gan Fall told Pierre to stay with the Straw Hats and take a break.
After a while, Luffy, Conis and Nami returns with a lot of food from the priests' storage. Usopp wondered how Luffy got down, and Luffy told Usopp that he got down using Gomu Gomu Balloon. Zoro asked Conis where her father was.
Conis answered Zoro by telling him that Pagaya had tried to protect her from Enel and took the attack instead. However, Pagaya appears, telling everyone that he is still alive. He told everyone he fell to the White Sea and was saved. He proceeds to tell everyone that people who escaped to Clouds End are coming back to White-White Sea using Cloud Dials, and due to the fact that Angel Island is completely destroyed, everyone is coming to God's Island.
A Skypiean calls out to Gan Fall, but Gan Fall told him not to call him God as he is not one and told him to save his strength and not talk. Gan Fall finds out that many people had been imprisoned here for six years and told them it is over and everyone can return home. However, another Skypiean told Gan Fall that he saw Enel destroy the homeland and so was the Shandia's. It led to both the Shandia Chief and Gan Fall to question whether the 400 year war has ended and the anguish will simply go away like that. Enel, told everyone that god cannot be defeated and he will return one day. He will not allow anyone else to accompany him to the moon as he is the only one worthy of doing so. After that, Enel prepares to go to the moon with his ship, the Maxim.
Nami told the Straw Hats to go on to the ship. However, Luffy and Usopp objects to the idea and said that she was inhuman. Meanwhile, Wyper regained consciousness. He asks where he is, and Gan Fall told him that he is in the ruins of Shandora. Wyper tries to move, by is stopped by Conis, telling him that he cannot move yet. The Shandia Chief told Wyper to calm down and not push it with his wounds.
Wyper continues by asking the Shandia Chief where the golden bell was as he needs to guard it, and the chief replied by telling Wyper to listen while he speaks. He proceeds to tell Wyper the reason why the warriors had war. After that, he told Wyper that nobody wants to see the continuation of the war.
With that, Luffy and the others all hold a party to mark the end of the 400 year war with laughter and smiles.

400 years of war between the Skypieans and Shandians has finally ended with Enel's defeat, and both sides celebrate with the Straw Hats together for days. With everyone finally sleeping after the festivities, Luffy wakes up Nami with a whisper. He asks her to wake everyone to help him steal all the gold and run away, which rouses her. Her enthusiasm prompts Luffy to tell her to keep it down, but she angrily retorts that he's the one being loud. This wakes up Usopp, who in turn wakes up Chopper by yelling and hitting him on the head, beginning a shouting match that wakes everyone else up, with the exception of Zoro. As the Skypieans and Shandians alike note the rambunctious nature of the pirates, the Straw Hats devise their plan.
The following morning, the Shandian Chieftain is alerted that they have found the Golden Belfry Bell. It was hanging off of Giant Jack in the aftermath of the battle with Enel, and the Chieftain gathered as many men as possible at the beach to try to hoist it up. Hearing this, Robin is happy that the Shandora Poneglyph is finally in her reach. The Shandians are trying to pull up the belfry, but they do not have enough strength. Much to their delight, however, the Skypieans emerge to help, and the two groups happily work together.
Meanwhile, the Skypieans stand in awe as Usopp displays a rubber band to them. He tells one of the Skypieans that 90% of the damage that caused Giant Jack to fall was because of the "Usopp Special Rubber Band Missile", and he also displays a metal sheet that he claims they can't get anywhere else. Fully convinced, the townspeople gladly trade Usopp all sorts of dials. Usopp is overjoyed now that he has so many dials, prompting an inquiry from Zoro. He offers to upgrade Zoro's katana to a "scent sword", and though the swordsman quickly rejects it, Usopp is nonetheless inspired to upgrade Nami's Clima-Tact. Usopp asks Zoro where Luffy and the others are, and he tells them that all except Robin are still inside. Nola happens to be sleeping next to them, and Usopp comments that the snake is a heavy sleeper. Zoro notes that it's been dancing all night, but says that it is dangerous when it wakes up. Usopp replies that Nola seems harmless, and Zoro retorts that he has no idea how vicious that snake truly is, remembering his experiences. Usopp repeats the sentence, and Zoro reminds him that he didn't see Nola when she was awake. Usopp repeats the sentence once more, infuriating Zoro greatly. Usopp laughs and shows him the tone dial that recorded the sentence, only angering Zoro further, to the point where he yells at Usopp to shut it off.
Meanwhile, Luffy and the others find a lot of treasure. Sanji wonders just what Nola was eating to have so much treasure inside of her, and Chopper notes that one of the pieces he finds is just like something he saw with the Saruyama Alliance. Elsewhere, the Golden Belfry Bell has finally been lifted up. The skydwellers marvel at just how majestic it looks up close, though it appears that one of the pillars broke off. One of the Shandians points out the poneglyph at the base of it, though he notes he is unable to read it. The chieftain begins to explain why it is no longer important that they can read the message, but before he can give his reason, Robin interrupts him:
"Before the heart of the truth, there is no need for words. We are the recorders of history, existing in harmony with the sound of the great bell."
The chief is in pure disbelief, asking Robin where she learned those words. Robin tells him of the stone tablet she came across in Upper Yard, which also mentions the Shandians as the ancient protectors of the text. He asks Robin if she can truly read the language, and the onlookers grow silent as she approaches the poneglyph. Robin reads of an ancient weapon known as Poseidon, startling the local residents that something of that nature could potentially be there. Robin muses to herself, however, that this would be yet another ancient weapon named after a god like Pluton, and that she is not interested in such information. As she walks off, a Shandian points out that there is another piece of writing on the side. This message, however, greatly astounds Robin:
"We came here, found the text, and followed its guidance." - Gol D. Roger
Robin is shocked that the Pirate King came to the Sky Island, and furthermore knew how to read the Poneglyphs. Remembering the name "Roger", Gan Fall tells Robin that he came there twenty years ago. Robin recalls that there are two types of poneglyphs, ones that contain information, and ones that reveal the location of others. Remembering what Roger had said, Robin figured out that Roger already found the poneglyph that this tablet was referring to. She tells the chief that this tablet has thus already served its purpose, as the poneglyphs are meant to be read in conjunction in order to fill in a piece of blank history, which Roger inevitably did. The Shandia chief understands that the wishes of their ancestors have already been fulfilled, causing him to break down, as this means his people no longer need to fight. Robin takes this to also mean that she must follow the guidance of the poneglyphs she has read so far as well, to the end of the Grand Line Laugh-Tale. The Chief recalls how much the blue sea dwellers valued gold, and is willing to give them the broken pillar of the belfry since they can't give them the bell itself. Robin notes that this will make the crew very happy, and the skydwellers begin moving the pillar. As they do so, Gan Fall notes that Luffy reminds him of Roger, asking Robin if they are related. Robin says that his full name is "Monkey D. Luffy", and he is a very interesting person. Gan Fall is shocked to hear they have the same initial "D." and says that maybe the D. is why they are so similar. Robin replies that their connection may be another lost piece of ancient history.
Back by the ruins, the Straw Hats are waiting for Robin and are ready to run. With none of the skydwellers apparently present, they agree this is the best time to escape with all the gold they are carrying, as Nami and Conis are already waiting at the Going Merry. Zoro proposes just leaving without her, leading to Usopp, Luffy, Sanji, and Chopper collectively insulting him. This angers the swordsman, and begins a brawl among the nakama. During the commotion, Usopp spots Robin approaching. Luffy yells to her that they need to run now because they stole so much gold, and Sanji quickly admonishes him for blurting this out while she has so many people behind her. Usopp spots the golden pillar wrapped in cloth but mistakes it for a giant cannon, prompting the Straw Hats to begin running. Robin arrives with the Shandia, who are confused that the Straw Hats are perceiving them as a threat. When they attempt to stop the Straw Hats, Usopp makes a speech about how they risked their lives to come here, and won't leave empty-handed. Robin laughs and says they probably just don't want the gift anymore, as she goes to catch up with her crew. The Straw Hats continue running away, with the skydwellers begging that they just wait.

The Shandia are still confused as to why the Straw Hat Pirates ran off before they could present them with their gift. They questioned whether the Straw Hats knew how grateful they were for their help. Gan Fall says that he will never understand the minds of the young pirates. Meanwhile, Raki trimmed Aisa's hair, she commented that Aisa was sly in regards to saying farewell to the Straw Hats as she was the only one who managed to do so. Aisa replies that it was because Luffy said that it was a secret and that  the warriors of the blue seas are strong. She wishes that she could become like him and stretch her arms really far. Afterwards, Raki tells Aisa that she will not cut too much of her hair this time because the latter no longer needed to keep her hair short or to carry weapons because of the island's peace which causes Aisa to smile.

At the home of Mont Blanc Cricket on Jaya, he informs Shoujou and Masira that they are no longer searching beneath the sea for his ancestor's Noland's claim. But instead, they are now pursuing a new dream at their request. Meanwhile on Mock Town on the same island, Bellamy and Sarquiss are having an unexpected fight against one another. The reason behind the fight is the unexpected return of their true leader: Seven Warlords of the Sea member Donquixote Doflamingo. Feeling upset that his "symbol" was being used in shame to fight against foolish dreams such as the existence of a city of gold in the sky. Although Bellamy begs for forgiveness and states he will never shame the sign ever again, Doflamingo still uses his powers to have Sarquiss attack him. As Bellamy screams, Doflamingo touts the beginning of a "New Age" where only worthy pirates exist and the trash are abandoned.
Elsewhere, the Straw Hat Pirates have a successful landing back in the Blue Sea as the Octopus Balloon shrinks down to a smaller size upon landing. Everyone on the crew believes as if a dream has ended and that maybe some day they would return to Skypiea once again. But before they can speak for too long, a massive tsunami approaches the ship with bizarre faces of sea monkeys staring right at them, forcing them to move Going Merry out of the way. Checking out their merchandise they brought from Skypiea, they discover Nami's Waver as well as nearly all collected Dials (except the Cloud Dial) work in the Blue Sea. However, Nami is more interested in the distribution of the gold collected from their journey, claiming 80% of all profits even as the rest of the crew ask for various things themselves. But even with what they want, they all soon realize what they need: due to all the damage the Merry took on their journey, they need someplace where they could fix it. Though they know Usopp had been protecting it since leaving Syrup Village, he considers himself a sniper and thus not worthy of keeping up all maintenance. Thus allowing Luffy to make an intelligent decision: the next crewmate will be a shipwright to protect and maintain their home, followed by a musician.
At the same moment at Marine Headquarters, the officials note that one of their most powerful members has gone missing. When the Five Elders get word, they do note that he usually does what he wants regardless of what other say. "He" turns out to be Admiral Aokiji, seen riding his bike innocently across the ocean while looking at Luffy's wanted poster.

The Straw Hat Pirates are sailing away from "Salvage King" Masira Pirate Crew, Sea Monkey's and The Tidal wave following them. Usopp looking out through a pair of binoculars spots a ship up ahead believing it to be an enemy ship. As they draw closer to the enemy ship Luffy tries to warn them about the upcoming tidal wave by asking them to turn around. Many of the pirates on the enemy ship are seen fighting & arguing with each other since they no navigator, flag, sails or captain. The Going Merry is able to safely get away shortly after the tidal wave disappears leaving them with a smooth sail. Luffy & Usopp ask Robin who is keeping watch if she has seen as island. Robin replies telling them she's seen an island a while ago but there's fog ahead. Luffy & Usopp tell Robin alert them next she sees an island. Nami asks Chopper To watch The front. The rest of the crew discuss the ship they passed. After discuss what they saw The Going Merry heads for Shore On Long Ring Long Land. Luffy, Usopp & Chopper are the first to step foot on the Island and our surprised by the tall animals inhabiting the island. Usopp locates a small house within range distance through his goggles. Outside the house they spot a tall white horse with a saddle on her. Luffy then points to large pieces of bamboo, as he gets closer he gets hit by the moving bamboo. Luffy reacts by attacking the bamboo with a gomu gomu whip. Chopper talks to the tall white horse, asking where his master was, the replies not knowing where his master has gone. Chopper then proceeds to rush over to Luffy, after he attacked the bamboo. Much to everyone's surprise there an old man laying on the ground from Luffy's attack on bamboo. The Foxy Pirates land on Long Ring Long Land and prepare to attack the Straw Hats.

The old man who was knocked down before awakens and sees Usopp, Chopper, and Luffy beside him. He greets them and asks if they are well, and when the three pirates say that they do not know him, the man introduces himself as a nomad named Tonjit. He thanks them for helping him get off of his abnormally lengthy stilt. After being questioned, he says that he wanted to make the world's tallest stilt due to his fascination for them and says he was stuck for 10 years, causing Luffy to call him very stupid. Tonjit says that the bamboo stilt he made never stopped growing and that he managed to survive by eating fruit off the trees. He then explains how all the animals on the island are able to have such lengthy bodies, pointing out several examples with some animals.
Tonjit goes inside his house to look for milk and suddenly realizes that his village is gone, as with their cattle. Tonjit gets some stored milk, which has spoiled into "cheese", and when none of the Straw Hats decide to eat it Tonjit does, and he gains food poisoning as a result. Afterwards, Tonjit explains more about his tribe and about Long Ring Long Land. Usopp mentions that with the currents around the island, it will take Tonjit 20 more years to go around and finally reunite with his nomadic tribe. Tonjit says that with his horse, it can only take 5 years. He then explains to Luffy that he does not know any sailing so even with a ship, he cannot reunite with his tribe any sooner than he can with a horse.
Tonjit then sees his horse Shelly outside and hugs the animal, grateful that it was able to stay loyal and wait for him so long. He then decides to go ride Shelly across the plains while Luffy, Usopp and Chopper look on. Tonjit says that he and Shelly will be able to cross the land bridge when the tide subsides, regardless of the weather when it happens. Shelly starts thinking back on how stubbornly it waited for Tonjit to return, ignoring what his tribe was telling her. Now reunited, Shelly suddenly leaps into the air for happiness.
A gun shot is fired and Shelly is struck down, causing her master to fall off. He and the Straw Hats rush over, worried for her safety. Luffy looks around and sees a shadowed group nearby and angrily asks who they are; they are members of the Foxy Pirates: Captain Foxy and pirates Porche and Hamburg. Luffy threatens to defeat them and their Captain starts feeling upset, as Luffy does not recognize who he is, though quickly he regains his self-confidence and introduces himself. Luffy charges at him but stops when they recognize him and his crew.
Suddenly, Foxy challenges Luffy to a Davy Back Fight and Luffy readily accepts. Usopp thinks about what the Davy Back Fight is and remembers the incident with the missing crew from earlier. As he remembers, Usopp screams for Luffy not to accept the match because if they lose, they'll also lose their friends.

As Foxy traps Luffy into agreeing to fight him in the Davy Back Fight, Usopp argues against it but is told that since Luffy accepted the challenge, with Porche as a witness, it will take place. Asking if he wants to back out and admit he is not a man, Luffy denies, but points out what happened to Shelly. Tonjit prepares to shoot but Luffy frantically tells him not to while Chopper is in the process of removing the bullet.
Meanwhile, the other Straw Hats are told about the Davy Back Fight proposal by the other members of the Foxy Pirates. Zoro believes a proposal to be a waste of time since they would fight without one, but Sanji reveals that the "fight" is more of a "gamble". Robin goes on to explain that the game was created to to help pirates acquire crews from others. Nami is shocked to hear this, at which point the Foxy Pirates explain that in the game, there are 3 rounds and the victor of each round may pick someone from the loser's crew. That person then has to swear loyalty to the captain of the winning crew. But the winning captain may also choose to take the loser's pirate flag.
The Straw Hats then assume the pirate crew they saw earlier must have lost the game. The Foxy Pirates confirm this. Nami says this is meaningless and foolish and that they refuse to play the game but the Foxy Pirates remind her that if the captain agrees to fight it does not matter what the crew thinks. Despite her crewmates telling her such is the way it is, Nami argues against the challenge, suggesting that being called cowards is no big deal, both Zoro and Sanji state that it is. Though she wishes to stop Luffy, she is told that it will be too late as they expect the guns to fire soon. When the sounds are heard, everyone knows that the challenge has been accepted. Usopp continues to get angry at Luffy, who proclaims that he will beat Foxy whom he then insults.
Soon, the initiation ceremony is set to begin as Luffy and Chopper marvel over the size of Foxy's crew. The rules are explained to everyone and once the captains swear to abide by them, the game begins. Foxy then reports Davy Jones that the game commence by throwing a coin into the sea. Chopper then asks Robin who Davy Jones is. Robin answers that Davy Jones was a cursed pirate in the ancient times that lives under the sea and steals everything that lands on the sea floor. While Foxy ponders which of the Straw Hats to take once he wins, the Straw Hats then divide themselves over the three rounds. The first round, the Donut Race, commences with Usopp, Robin and Nami participating for the Straw Hat Pirates and Porche, Capote, and Monda participating for the Foxy Pirates.

"The winner will be greeted by a celebration and the looser by the cold sea. It's the Davy Fight Back" rules have been explained. The first round, The Donut Race is about to begin. The Objective is announced "It's very simple. Just go around the island once". Gun, Cannon, Swords .. any weapon is allowed. Foxy comments on uses the rules to his advantage. Nami is eager to start, Robin points out if the opposing teams ship breaks they'll win. Both teams are given an Eternal Pose in case they get lost. The race begins, but as the race starts Nami's team receives heavy gun fire from the Foxy Pirates from within the audience. Their small boat, Barrel Tiger is sent flying from the explosion of gun fire. Once it lands, a huge boulder is seen falling from above them. Usopp rows just fast enough to get away. Robin comments, saying help from crew members works both ways.
Sanji takes his anger out on several Foxy Pirates crew members for attacking Nami and Robin. Capote uses Sea Splitter (Fish-Man Karate) to slow down and throw Nami's team off balance. Usopp responds firing "Certain Death Fire Star" but turns out to be ineffective. Robin then restrains him with Eight-Wheel Fluer, until flipping him over on to Monda. Luffy, Sanji and Chopper cheer on their crew mates after finishing beating up some more of Foxy's crew. Foxy talks with Hamburg saying "The newbies are getting better".
Usopp is seen arguing with Nami & Robin about catching up with The Cutie Wagon. After some arguing among themselves, Tiger Barrel is seen moving forward past Porche and Capote at an extreme speed. Once returning to a normal speed Usopp reveals he used an Impact Dial to give the boat a speed boast.
Monda charges forward to catch up, and a chain of hands created by Robin are seen holding on to the front of their boat. The hands then grasp Capote and pull him into the water, breaking the front of their boat in the process. Nami urges Usopp to use the Impact Dial again as it is the only way to win the race. Both Porche & Capote are not happy with events since Nami and co. passed them, Porche plans to sink The Barrel Tiger.
Just up head lies everyone's biggest challenge: "Long Coral" Area, "Long Whirlpool" and "Long Cape". Foxy is seen riding Hamburg on the shoreline stating he has "A very naughty idea".

As the Donut Race continues, the Cutie Wagon (Porche, Capote & Monda) makes its way into one of the races more well-known challenges, the "Long Coral Area". The Taru Tiger, occupied by Nami, Usopp, and Nico Robin, is hot on their heels with Usopp and Nami rowing. Commenting on the sun's heat adding to the challenges, Itomimizu flies overhead. Porche and Capote note that they need to make up for the time that they lost earlier in the race, while Nami, Usopp, and Robin notice that the giant corals effect on sea currents will likely prompt them to proceed with caution. Itomimizu calls attention to Foxy and Hamburg running along the shoreline, hinting that they are planning something for the race. Foxy tells Hamburg to get ahead of the competitors.
Meanwhile Luffy, still eager for a fight with the Foxy Pirates due to their subterfuge in the Donut Race, is approached by their chef with an offer of food. Luffy seems almost helpless against the offer, as he drools excessively over the dishes in front him. Sanji receives the adulation of multiple women of the Foxy Pirates, while Chopper is similarly distracted with the sweets they offer him. Zoro has already been excessively drinking rum with multiple Foxy Pirates, to the point that they need to fetch him more.
The race takes an unexpected turn as Nami decides to slow down before entering the Long Coral Area, despite the Cutie Wagon speeding ahead of them. This confounds Usopp, but Nami's strategy is soon justified as Monda is shown to be incapable of pulling the Cutie Wagon through the Coral Area's intense currents. Nami decides it is now time for the Taru Tiger to make its move, but as they proceed Robin notices a thick smoke filling the Coral Area. Itomimizu comments on Foxy's underhandedness, while also pointing out that Taru Tiger now risks running into something every time they move. Foxy begins to revel in the success of his dastardly deed, but this is quickly cut short as he notices the Taru Tiger pass completely through the smoke with no issue. Now effortlessly speeding through the Long Coral Area, Usopp points out that the boat is moving on its own. Nami explains that the area is a maze of sea currents, where a giant whirlpool behind the corals is actually causing a chain of smaller whirlpools in the area. With this being the case, all she had to do was determine the correct path to enter the area, and the smoke would be inconsequential. Usopp praises Nami's skills as a navigator, but Itomimizu reminds everyone of the giant whirlpool that is still up ahead. Nami tells Usopp that they will need his Impact Dial again to prevent being swallowed by the whirlpool, impressing Usopp further at his navigator's calm demeanor and foresight. Usopp complies, and the Taru Tiger is catapulted completely over the giant whirlpool, as well as a small strip of land, landing safely on the other side. Itomimizu is astounded at their success, wondering if this will mean a loss for the Cutie Wagon.
Not to be counted out, the Cutie Wagon improvises by having Capote get partially inside of Monda's mouth in order to improve their speed and maneuverability. They begin shattering the giant corals with brute force, quickly closing the gap between them and the Taru Tiger. As the Taru Tiger begins moving forward again, they notice a sign in front of them that tells them to "Turn Right". Nami feigns following the instruction, only to immediately destroy the sign as they continue moving forward. Foxy is once again fooled, this being "Boss Trick #18, Fake Sign Attack". Itomimizu comments on Nami's untrusting nature, earning himself a direct insult from her. Itomimizu also notes Nami's profane comments, before announcing that they are moving into the next challenge, the "Long Ripple". This area is characterized by giant pillars of water shooting up from the sea. Foxy tries more deceitful tactics, pretending to be a feeble old woman in need of help as Hamburg cries over him. Nami simply ignores him, telling him to stop his tricks, with Itomimizu now calling her heartless and cruel. Usopp notices the finish line ahead of them; however Nami destroys it as they pass through, noticing that it is once again a trick by Foxy. Foxy is absolutely beside himself at Nami's perception of his trickery. Robin states that the real finish line must be close, and Usopp informs her and Nami that he won't be able to use the Impact Dial again. Itomimizu again questions Nami if she believes anything she sees, earning himself more insults from her. The Cutie Wagon has stopped at the fake finish line, believing it to be real. Nami states that she wouldn't be able to live with herself if she loses to idiots like the Foxy Pirates, and reminds Usopp and Robin that they will lose a crewmate should this come to pass.
As the Cutie Wagon finally realizes their mistake, Itomimizu announces that they are approaching the Long Bamboo Shore. Nami notices that she can see the real finish line, but also that they won't be able to best the quickly approaching Cutie Wagon in speed. Pointing out the bamboo trees in the distance, Nami asks Usopp to shoot some of them down. Porche commands Capote and Monda to speed up and destroy the Taru Tiger, but the falling bamboo trees critically injure Capote. In retaliation, Porche unveils her "Cutie Baton", and flings several rose-shaped shuriken at the Taru Tiger. With the Straw Hats unable to dodge, the shurikens punch several holes in the Taru Tiger. However, the Straw Hats are close enough to the finish line that they believe they can still make it by charging through. Along the shoreline, Foxy has Hamburg get closer to the Straw Hats, and the Cutie Wagon pushes forward with just Monda swimming once again. As the race reaches its highly anticipated conclusion, Luffy, Chopper, and Sanji cheer on their crewmates. The Foxy Pirates along the shoreline praise the Straw Hats for their efforts, but assure them that they won't be winning despite how things look for them. In response to Luffy's befuddlement, one of the Foxy Pirates explains that their captain has a Devil Fruit, just like Luffy. Foxy then fires his "Noro Noro Beam" at the Taru Tiger as it approaches the finish line.

Round One of the Davy Back Fight, the Donut Race, has ended with Porche's team winning against the Straw Hats. Due to Foxy's crew win, Foxy gets to choose a Straw Hat to join the crew.
The Straw Hats talk about the loss, and Foxy later reveals that he used an ability form his Devil Fruit, Noro Photon against the Straw Hats. Foxy tries to explain the Noro Photon, but Luffy does not listen and chases Foxy away by calling him stupid.
Foxy explains again, saying that he ate the Noro Noro no Mi and thus became a Noro Noro man and that anything that touches it will slow down. He demonstrates his powers at an incoming cannonball, but when the cannonball come, it explodes at Foxy's face.
The Straw Hats say that that was a dirty trick to use during a race, but Porche rebuts the statement, saying that crossing that line is what that matters and that the fact that they did it first, the Straw Hats lost. So, Foxy ends the game, saying that game has ended and that the winner is his team.
Foxy gets to choose a crew member from the Straw Hats. In the end, he chooses the doctor of the Straw Hat Pirates, Chopper. Foxy says that Chopper will make a great pet, and told Chopper to swear his loyalty by putting on the mask. The Straw Hats are saddened by the loss of Chopper, but Zoro scolds Chopper, saying that he is disgraceful, and it was Chopper who chose to get onto the sea, even if dead or alive, it was his choice, and that the Straw Hats accepted the challenge and did their best. Zoro then tells Chopper to quietly sit down and watch the game if he is a man.
As the Straw Hats prepare for Round Two, Foxy's crew cheers, saying that Zoro sure can talk. As Chopper was going to be in the second round but he is not with the Straw Hats, the Foxy Pirates also have the match in the bag.
Itomimizu then explains the rules of the Groggy Ring. Zoro nominates Sanji to be the ball, and Sanji gets angry, asking why Zoro got to decide. So, the music of the returning champions of the Groggy Ring starts. The returning champions have gone undefeated in the past, and they are called the "Groggy Monsters".
The "Groggy Monsters" make their debut, and the second round of the Davy Back Fight has begun.

The second match of the Davy Back, Groggy Ring, is about to begin. Itomimizu introduces that Sanji and Zoro as the official participants for the Straw Hat team. The "Groggy Monsters" mock and laugh at the Straw Hat team, expecting more. The "Groggy Monsters" choose Ball position first and attempt to place Sanji, the ball, into the goal.  Sanji objects to being the ball and Zoro responds with a complement, saying Sanji looks handsome, which annoys Sanji even more.
On the sidelines, the other Straw Hats are cheering on Sanji and Zoro. Foxy laughs at the Straw Hats saying his team is unbeatable. Luffy insults Foxy by calling him "2-piece head" and Foxy falls to his hands and knees, depressed. After Porche helps Foxy recover from his mental breakdown, Foxy brags that he won't even have to assist the "Groggy Monsters" win. Nami complains that interference is allowed in all the events of the Davy Back Fight. Foxy also points out the Straw Hat Team, Zoro and Sanji, seem to have no team spirit. Nami is about to defend them when she looks to the field and sees them arguing and gives up on her defense effort. Nami yells to Sanji that he "looks awesome" wearing the ball hat and hearing the compliment, Sanji finally accepts the position of Ball.
With the game about to start, a member of the Foxy Pirates yells to Zoro and informs him that weapons are not allowed in the Groggy Ring and Zoro removes them saying he won't need them.
Pickles, the Tackle Demon, starts the match by charging Sanji with a Sling Tackle but Sanji jumps over Pickles and avoids the attack. Sanji goes to attack Big Pan but loses balance on Big Pan's slippery skin. Itomimizu explains that Big Pan is a Fish-Man Giant with Mudfish genes, which causes his slippery skin. When Sanji is distracted, trying to run up Big Pan's skin, Big Pan preforms his Punk Pass, which sends Sanji flying across the field. Hamburg and Zoro both try to catch Sanji, the ball, but Pickles come out of nowhere with a Swipe Tackle and pushes Zoro out of the way, leaving Hamburg to catch the ball. Hamburg then throws Sanji farther down the field to Pickles, who has again knocked down Zoro, this time with a Spinning Tackle. Big Pan charges forward and bounces Hamburg into the air, who catches Sanji in mid-air. Hamburg is about to score a slam dunk but Zoro intercepts by throwing Pickles toward Hamburg. Sanji also gets a hold of Hamburg and is able to throw him as well and Hamburg and Pickles collide into each other and are knocked out.

Itomimizu is shocked that Zoro and Sanji managed to throw Pickles and Hamburg out of the ring, but the two Straw Hats are arguing once again, saying they do not need the other's help. The Foxy Pirates are shocked at these turn of events, and Porche says that she will not forgive Hamburg if he loses. The game is still going on even though Pickles and Hamburg are incapacitated, and the Straw Hats get angry at Zoro and Sanji for arguing instead of putting the unguarded Big Pan into the ring. Big Pan then tries to stomp Zoro and Sanji, causing them to run away, to Usopp's chagrin. However, Zoro tells Usopp that Big Pan has knives on the soles of his boots, and Sanji reports the rule violation to the referee. However, the referee is purposefully looking away as Foxy says that he cannot see everything, and Sanji kicks the referee in anger. The referee maintains that he saw nothing and gives Sanji a yellow card; one more violation from him will result in a red card and him being ejected from the game.
Sanji is angry at the biased call but gets back into the game, only to see Big Pan attacking Zoro with a giant ax. He also reports this to the referee, but he turns his head away again, angering Sanji once more. However, Usopp and Nami convince him to not do anything to get ejected, and they are also forced to stop Luffy from attacking the referee himself. However, Zoro and Sanji resume where they left off as they continue running away from Big Pan, but they stop and prepare to counterattack, though still refusing to fully cooperate with each other. Sanji knows that to avoid Big Pan's slippery skin, he must attack him in his clothed areas, but Big Pan flops onto his belly and slides forward, causing Zoro and Sanji to land on his back and slip down it. Big Pan then pulls his legs up to his head from behind, forming a loop that Zoro and Sanji are trapped sliding in.
As Zoro and Sanji continue sliding, Pickles and Hamburg return, now carrying weapons, which the referee does not see due to performing some stretching exercises. Big Pan unrolls himself and sends the disoriented Zoro and Sanji flying into the air, and Pickles and Hamburg prepare to unleash another combo attack on them. Pickles sends Hamburg spinning into the air, and Hamburg slams Zoro into the ground with his elbow guard. Big Pan then gets into spiking position as Hamburg holds his elbow guards downward like a blade, and Big Pan sends Hamburg flying straight into Zoro. Hamburg's elbow guards drive into Zoro's abdomen, severely injuring him, and Itomimizu says the game is over for Zoro since he is dead. The Groggy Monsters then prepare another attack as Pickles gets into Big Pan's mouth and is shot out at the disoriented Sanji like a cannonball, his spiked shoulder pads primed. Pickles' attack sends Sanji flying into the air, and Hamburg smacks Sanji through the air, although he does not seem to be heading for the goal. Sanji hits Pickles' shoulder pad, and Big Pan finishes him off with a spike into the ground. The Foxy Pirates cheer and the Straw Hats are despairing as all that is left for the Foxy Pirates is to put the downed Sanji into the ring. However, Zoro and Sanji are still conscious, and they agree to help each other for 10 seconds.

Tony Tony Chopper looks on in deep anxiety as it appears that the 2nd round of the Davy Back Fight, the Groggy Ring, will end with the Straw Hats losing once more. Flying overhead, Itomimizu begins preparing to call the match in favor of the Foxy Pirates, but they are completely blown away as Roronoa Zoro and Sanji rise back to their feet. Itomimizu praises their endurance, while Luffy and Usopp cheer on their crewmates. Foxy commands Hamburg, Pickles, and Big Pan to give him a "Monster Burger", which draws appalled reactions from the Foxy Pirates. Hamburg pulls out two metal clubs, and Pickles draws his swords, as the Foxy Pirates begin singing a song of the ingredients for a burger. Nami points out that such weapons are not allowed to no avail, as Big Pan pulls out two huge pans that he can smash together like cymbals. As the three of them move in on Zoro and Sanji, Itomimizu announces that it is the crew's most deadly combo attack (and ironically, "red card" material). The referee is stretching along the sideline, intentionally averting his gaze elsewhere from the illegal activity. Luffy attempts to attack the referee for his bias but is held back by Usopp.
Itomimizu notes that their target is the "ball" Sanji, with Hamburg leading the assault. Sanji states that he can't make anything good out of third-rate ingredients like the Foxy Pirates, and launches himself towards Hamburg with several backflips that cause the latter to note his speed. Sanji uses "Troisieme Hachis", delivering several powerful kicks to Hamburg's face before also launching him in the air with another powerful kick, "Bouquetiere Shot". Hamburg flies right by Pickles towards Big Pan, causing him great concern. Pickles tells Big Pan to stop smashing the pans together, but it is too late, and Hamburg gets crushed completely flat between them. Seeking revenge, Pickles attempts to cut Sanji but is stopped by Zoro with his bare hands, who reminds him that this is a team battle. Pickles then tries to focus on Zoro, but he uses "No Sword Style: Tatsu Maki", and sends Pickles flying straight at Big Pan as well. Noting that he is unable to stop his spinning motion with his swords due to Zoro's attack using the rotation against him, Pickles inadvertently cuts up Big Pan. The attack incapacitates Big Pan and knocks him back, but Sanji appears behind him and kicks the wotan back upright again with an "Anti-Manner Kick Course". Zoro begins to rush toward Sanji, though Itomimizu announces that he is going for their "ball" Big Pan, which prompts Pickles to attempt to stop him. Sanji quickly intervenes however, landing a kick so powerful on Pickles that he flies straight into the referee. The referee is severely injured, but remains conscious enough to note that the Straw Hats behavior was intentional. He attempts to raise a red card, only to notice that they have been stolen from him, before he fully passes out. Nami reveals that she has stolen all the cards, and Robin calls her a naughty girl for doing so.
Zoro rushes Sanji and jumps on his leg, causing Itomimizu to mistakenly announce that they are fighting each other once again. Sanji instead uses his leg to launch Zoro directly at Big Pan. Zoro grabs the Big Pan by the lip, and lifts his body into the air, astounding the Foxy Pirates with his strength. The crew is in utter shock that the "Groggy Monsters" could ever be defeated.  Zoro slams Big Pan's head through the goal, winning the 2nd round of the Davy Back Fight for the Straw Hat Pirates.

With Sanji and Roronoa Zoro having scored the game-winning goal, Usopp and Luffy cheer on their crewmates. Chopper cries profusely from happiness, extremely impressed from their efforts. Even the Foxy Pirates are blown away, though Foxy quickly admonishes them for cheering for the enemy. While Foxy ponders how something like this could have happened, the Referee finally awakens. Nami reminds him he needs to blow his whistle, and he gladly obliges, remembering how Sanji kicked Pickles into him. He is stunned as Itomimizu notes his whistle as the official ending of the match, unaware that the Groggy Monsters have been defeated. Usopp repeatedly hits Zoro in his happiness, drawing the latter's ire, while Sanji seeks the adulation of Nami and Robin. Itomimizu reminds everyone that with the Straw Hats winning round 2 of the Davy Back Fight, their captain now gets to choose someone from Foxy's side to join his crew. With no deliberation, Luffy says he'll choose "him", prompting several of the Foxy Pirates to wonder if he means them. Before Luffy is able to say "Chopper" however, Nami reminds Luffy that he has the option of choosing the opposing captain. This would get them a third win and Chopper back, without having to fight. This enrages several of the Foxy Pirates into throwing insults at Nami, including Itomimizu himself.  This draws Sanji's anger, as Itomimizu expounds on how dishonorable it would be. Nami cries into Robin's arms as she brings up the multiple times the Foxy Pirates have disobeyed the rules, but this is short-lived as the Foxy Pirates continue to hurl insults. Nami tells them they are making her angry, prompting them to immediately cease and apologize.
Itomimizu clarifies that it is Luffy's choice, again causing some of the Foxy Pirates to believe he is choosing them. Robin tells Luffy that if he does choose Foxy it would indeed give them an easy win, but she doesn't want someone like Foxy traveling with them. Luffy, Sanji, Zoro and Usopp concur that they don't want that kind of "trash" on their ship, which visibly breaks Foxy's spirit. With that said, Luffy calls Chopper back over to their side, who gives Luffy a big hug as he sobs uncontrollably.  Luffy tells him to stop crying, as there is no way Zoro and Sanji would have lost. Foxy goes into another depression at Luffy's choice, but his crew perks him up as they tell him to teach the Straw Hats a lesson in round three of the fight. Foxy feels extremely endeared to his crew for their kind words, but Sanji kills the mood as he angrily tells him to start the fight already. Foxy responds by issuing a threat to the Straw Hats, stating that they don't get back the crewmember they lose in the final round, so they should all be prepared to become Foxy Pirates soon. Luffy interjects that he won't lose to Foxy, who cryptically states that there are many differences between a normal battle and a game battle as he walks off.
Itomimizu announces the beginning of the third round of the Davy Back Fight, the Battle Round, which begins with choosing a ring. To do so, the two captains spin a cannon, with the fight location being where it naturally stops. When the cannon immediately stops on the Foxy Pirates ship however, Usopp is livid that the motion of the cannon wasn't very "natural" at all. A cannonball is launched at the ship, with the fighting arena being determined as the fifty-meter radius around the landing location. The arena thus includes the entirety of the ship, as well as some of the surrounding water. All weapons on the ship are valid for use in the fight, however no one other than the contestants may enter the arena. To win, one must simply knock the opponent out of the arena. After explaining the rules, Itomimizu announces a cheerleading show led by Porche on the fight stage, as well as a sale on several souvenirs, much to Nami's annoyance. As Chopper patches up Zoro and Sanji's injuries, he thanks the two for winning him back. Zoro boasts that he did it single-handedly, which immediately enrages Sanji, but Nami stops the two before they get into a serious fight. She notes that someone is calling for their captain, and grows incredibly angry at Luffy when she sees him and Usopp buying souvenir pins. It is determined that Usopp will be the "coach" for the fight. Sanji gets into a dispute with one of the Foxy Pirates over the taste of the popcorn, but he quickly turns his attention to the fireworks that signify the beginning of the third round. Sanji finds seats for Nami and Robin, and Chopper notices the sky fill with a dark smoke. In the smoke are two enlarged versions of Luffy and Foxy's bounty posters, as Itomimizu states that the final round will be a bout between the two. Itomimizu announces Foxy's entry into the ring, noting that he has 920 straight wins. As Luffy is announced, he has a brief flashback of Usopp coaching him on his appearance for the fight. After removing his cloak, it is revealed that Luffy is wearing an afro, and a flaming skull and crossbones tattoo across his midsection. Usopp is wearing the Straw Hat underneath his goggles. Chopper and Sanji cheer for Luffy, but Zoro does not recognize his captain with the afro.

In a brief flashback, Luffy and Usopp stand in awe at the various props before them in the "Resting Room" aboard the Sexy Foxy. The Foxy Pirate that is present explains to them that the contestants must wear boxing gloves, but aside from that they are allowed to dress up however they'd like for the fight. Usopp spots an afro, and asks Luffy how he looks as he puts it on. Luffy is absolutely blown away, telling Usopp he looks cool. Usopp states that the hairstyle will unlock one's deepest latent powers, and encourages Luffy that the afro will make his punch stronger. Luffy is ecstatic in his belief of Usopp, telling the latter that he was even talking differently while wearing the afro.
In the present, both contestants have entered the arena for the final round of the Davy Back Fight, the Battle Round. On Luffy's side, Usopp is proud of his role as coach; warning his opponent about the power of Luffy's punch, while Luffy himself is anxious to start the fight. On Foxy's side, he cracks his neck and compliments Luffy for his battle-ready appearance. In the stands, Zoro wonders how Usopp became the coach, while Sanji and Chopper enthusiastically cheer for their captain. Nami on the other hand wonders if Luffy actually takes anything seriously, though Robin is very amused at her captain's new appearance.  Usopp begins issuing another warning to Foxy, though he is cut off as Itomimizu announces that it is time for all noncontestants to exit the ring. Itomimizu takes this time to reiterate the rules of the Battle Round: the entirety of the Sexy Foxy is part of the arena (including the rooms below deck), as well as everything within a 100 meter radius of the ship's mast. Additionally, the Battle Round has no time limit, it ends when a contestant scores one point (knocking the opponent out of the arena). The audience stand rises up, both to give the audience a better view of the fight, but also so that only the contestants remain in the terrain of the arena.
Foxy repeats to Luffy that the entirety of the ship is in play, and he may fight as he pleases without worry of breaking anything. As Luffy acknowledges, both crews cheer on their contestants, with Nami reminding Luffy to watch out for his opponent's "Noro Noro Beam". Itomimizu sets the stage once more announcing the fight, and it finally begins upon the ringing of a bell. Luffy immediately attempts a Gomu Gomu no Pistol, but Foxy uses his Noro Noro Beam on Luffy's fist, allowing him to easily dodge. Luffy is shocked that his fist has become slow and won't return to him, while Foxy explains that the effect is worse with the more effort that Luffy exerts. Luffy falls down as he reels from the effects, only for Foxy to prepare another beam. Still unable to move his arm, Luffy attempts to dodge by jumping in the air. Foxy simply redirects the beam however, catching Luffy mid-air and upside down. The Straw Hats are unsettled by this new development, most notably Zoro, who points out that the beams are reducing the speed of Luffy's actions. Still unsure of what's going on, Luffy questions Foxy's actions, though his speech pattern is extremely slowed as well. Foxy unleashes the "Foxy Rush", a barrage of punches on Luffy's face. Sanji notes that punches are having no effect, but Zoro points out that the effects are probably being slowed down as well. Foxy confirms this, and states that Luffy is done for even if he is a rubber man. Foxy announces that 30 seconds have gone by, and Luffy's body is immediately rocked from the impact of the flurry of punches as he goes flying. Sanji makes a note of the 30 second rule, while Chopper panics that Luffy's body will fall into the sea at this rate. Luffy is able to catch his fall by extending his arm to grab the ship, surprising many of the Foxy Pirates with his Devil Fruit ability. Luffy states that the Noro Noro Beam is stronger than he anticipated, and resolves not to stretch himself too much for easy retaliation. He runs further onto the ship looking for Foxy, but arrows suddenly fly towards him that he barely manages to dodge. Luffy spots Foxy floating toward him on a cannonball, and notes that he must have used the Noro Noro Beam on it to do so. Because of this Luffy believes that he can jump on the cannonballs as well, but the Noro Noro effect wears off on the one he chooses. He catches a different cannonball to break his fall, but the same thing happens, causing Luffy to crash into the deck of the ship.
As Luffy rises to his feet, Foxy uses another weapon, the "Foxy Face Bomb", and it shoots miniature versions of Foxy's head at Luffy. Luffy wonders why they resemble the souvenir pins he bought, and one of the heads responds that they are bombs. As Luffy ponders why the bombs can talk, one of the heads is revealed to be Foxy himself, who lands a hard punch to Luffy's face. Foxy reveals that he has exchanged his boxing gloves for spiked ones, and also that the 30 seconds for the Foxy Face Bombs are now up. Luffy is caught in a powerful explosion, prompting Nami to show concern for her captain. Itomimizu notes that all the bombs landed direct hits, and says that Foxy is winning the fight.

A huge explosion happens onboard the Sexy Foxy. The onlookers expect Luffy to be blown to pieces. Itomimizu and Chuchun are stunned that Luffy is still alive crouched on top of a mast. Everyone later hears Foxy's laughter coming from a shadow in the smoke. Foxy tries to attack Luffy by using his Noro Noro Beam, but, instead Luffy sneaks behind him and uses Gomu Gomu Hook. Luffy threatens Foxy to break his hands, which makes Foxy run back to the smoke.
Luffy thinks he sees Foxy and punches it, but instead it was actually a fake, made from cardboard. Behind Luffy, Foxy uses Noro Noro Beam again which Luffy dodges. He turns around to see many of the fake Foxy. Foxy asks where will his beam shoot next, Luffy response by asking how is he suppose to find him if all the targets have the same ugly haircut. He then finds Foxy upset, kneeling on the ground with his head down, and punches him in the face. Foxy hits a wall with his face, gets back up and tricks Luffy by distracting him saying that there is a three-headed monkey. While Luffy is looking up at the sky, Foxy pulls a lever making Luffy fall into a secret room. In the secret room the floors are moving and Luffy tries run in the opposite direction of the moving floors, but he cannot and falls out of the Sexy Foxy. He uses his Gomu Gomu no Mi power to stretch his arm to get him back on the ship. The onlookers continue rooting for Luffy to win against Foxy.
Meanwhile on the ship, Foxy continues to hide. Luffy sees an open door to another room, Nami calls out to Luffy that it is another trap, but he continues to charge at it without a second thought. Usopp cheers on for Luffy and is hit in the head by Sanji. Inside the Sexy Foxy, Luffy enters a cannon room and sees a door being slammed. Foxy hides in a room full of blades, but is next to the door. Luffy uses a cannon, shoots it at the side that Foxy is on causing him to fall on several blades that pierce through him. Foxy gets angry at Luffy for using one of his cannons and punches him.
Foxy then runs away, hides in the infirmary, and disguises himself. Luffy chases after him to only find Foxy disguise as a female nurse, which he does not recognize and asks if they had seen Foxy. After he walks out of the infirmary, he realizes that Foxy's disguise looks much like him and believes that it is his sister instead. Luffy reenters the infirmary and is attacked by Foxy's counter, Fox Blow. Foxy runs away again but to the kitchen. Luffy finds him again but he is disguised as a male chef, and Luffy asks if Foxy had seen a stupid foxy guy with his head split in two. Foxy is later in pain from Luffy's insults, which makes Luffy finally realize that Foxy was always in a disguise. Foxy later admits that he was also the nurse in the infirmary. He then slows Luffy by using Noro Noro Beam again and attacks him with Nine-Tail Rush. While Luffy slowly experiences the attacks, Foxy walks to a lever and pulls it, only reveal another room. He tells Luffy that something horrible awaits him on the other side of the door.

Luffy, still under the effect of the Noro Noro beam, slowly starts propelling out of the kitchen. Foxy exclaims that 30 seconds have finally passed and the effect of the Noro Noro Beam wears off, hurling Luffy and making him fall into a dark room. Luffy gets up and wonders where Foxy went. Suddenly, Foxy appears on top of a machine known as the Gorilla Puncher 13. Foxy activates the machine and slowly starts to head towards Luffy. He follows through with a Noro Noro beam that misses Luffy, making the latter confused as to why the former would purposely miss. Foxy tells Luffy to turn around. Luffy notices a mirror behind him and was shocked to learn from Foxy that the Noro Noro Beam could be reflected by mirrors. After dodging the Noro Noro Beam, Foxy presses a button on the Gorilla Puncher and hits Luffy with one of the boxing gloves, severely burning the pirate. Far from finished, Foxy pulls out his mirror racket and sends multiple Noro Noro Beams at Luffy. Foxy taunts Luffy, exclaiming that he will never be able to get close to him while dodging both the punches and the Noro Noro beams. Immediately afterwards, Luffy turns around and smashes the mirror behind him. Foxy ironically says that it was a cheap move on Luffy's part. He then loses sight of him and gets surprised by a Gomu Gomu no pistol to the back. Foxy tries to retaliate with another Noro Noro Beam, but Luffy dodges it. Luffy falls and hangs on to the Gorilla Puncher 13. Foxy calls him a fool and attacks Luffy with Gorilla Puncher Golden Hit, badly burning him in the process. Back outside, Itomimizu commentates on the match while riding Chuchun. The Straw Hat Crew cheers Luffy on, knowing that he will come through for them. Suddenly, an explosion occurs on the ship. Foxy emerges from the smoke in triumph while Luffy is seen lying face down on the ground. The Straw Hats are shocked to see Luffy injured, questioning how he got burned by mere punches. Luffy gets back up once more to face Foxy. Foxy gets annoyed. He pulls out his Noro Noro Beam Sword and restrains Luffy's arm and legs. He then follows up with a Megaton Nine-Tail Rush attack. Luffy gets pushed back, but he gets back up once again. Foxy repeats the same combo, but Luffy gets back on his feet yet again. Foxy is stunned by this. Luffy yells that he will fight to the death in order to save his friend.

Itomimizu comments on how strong Luffy is as he managed to get back up repeatedly over and over again. The Straw Hats cheer on to Luffy, telling him no to give up. Foxy, however, is not impressed by Luffy and asks why Luffy just would not stay down.
Itomimizu tells everyone about Luffy's conditions as Luffy keeps standing up, for the sake of his friends. He shouts to everyone, saying that that is the true spirit of the Davy Back Fight. Itomimizu starts to cry and could not see anything as he was touched by Luffy's actions. Everyone, except for Foxy and his crew cries out to Luffy. Foxy's crew cheers on to Luffy.
Itomimizu mentions that Luffy was the first and only man who could survive against Foxy to this extent. When Foxy finds out that his crew are cheering for Luffy, he scolds them and tells them to cheer for him instead. The crew follow his orders and cheer for him. He tells Luffy to watch out as his battle is going to be the end.
After finishing his message, Foxy fires a Noro Noro Beam Sword at Luffy. Luffy tries to run but is caught by the beam. Foxy mentioned that in the state of Luffy's, it is impossible to run from him and his beams. Following that, Foxy prepares for his finishing attack.
Doing his finishing attack, Foxy first slows down the cannonball with a Noro Noro Beam. Next, he rides on the Foxy Fighter and tells Luffy that using the speed of the cannonball, the Fighter will defeat Luffy for sure. Soon, Foxy shows his ultimate attack and prepares to charge and obliterate the target.
Sanji tells Luffy to get up earlier than the glider and run as fast as he can when he is free. While Foxy is charging at Luffy, Luffy manages to get free from the effects of the beam first. Foxy, however, says that it is useless and Luffy will not get away from it.
Luffy does not manage to escape in time, and Foxy successfully hits Luffy. Usopp and Chopper warn Luffy of the incoming danger by the Foxy Fighter. Luffy however, could not move. Foxy tells Luffy that it is his farewell gift to Luffy and let the Fighter crash onto Luffy. With that, he says that the game is over.
The Straw Hats are shocked that Luffy is defeated and would not survive from the attack. However, Luffy manages to come up. Foxy's crew are shocked that Luffy keeps standing up and that some says that he is not even human. Luffy tells Foxy that he will be the winner. However, Foxy says that that is rubbish as Luffy could not even fight back. He also says that if Luffy wants to die that badly, he will keep hitting Luffy till Luffy drops. Foxy proceeds by using Megaton Nine Tail on Luffy. Luffy attacks back by using Gomu Gomu Gatling Gun on Foxy.
Itomimizu mentions that the fight is still so fierce even that late in the game, and the fighters have entered a pummeling rage. Usopp and Chopper tells Luffy to beat Foxy up for good, and Itomimizu says that the game is not stopping anytime soon.
In the middle of the fight, as both parties get tired, Foxy tries to use a Noro Noro Beam on Luffy. Suddenly, they both do not move. Itomimizu says that Luffy is down, but is shocked that he is still moving. Foxy is confused about the situation and asks what happened. It is revealed that Luffy has a piece of mirror in his hand. Luffy tells Foxy that it got stuck on his afro when he was in Foxy's room.
Foxy is shocked about the fact, and Luffy prepares to finish Foxy by using Gomu Gomu Flail on Foxy. Foxy is struck by the attack. He, being unable to move within ten seconds, has finally lost the competition and is sent flying back by Luffy.

Itomimizu shockingly announces that his boss has been sent flying into the sky. The rest of the Foxy Pirates are surprised too. Foxy then lands in the sea and loses the third round of the Davy Back fight, thus ending his 920 win streak. Itomimizu declares Luffy as the winner. The Straw Hats celebrate their captain's victory. Meanwhile, the Foxy Pirates rush to save Foxy as their captain continues to sink into the sea. The Straw Hats rush to Luffy's side. Usopp continuously pokes Luffy out of joy for his victory, which causes Chopper to yell at him because he's poking the captain too hard and asks if he's trying to kill him. Sanji and Nami make a passing comment about how Luffy's afro supposedly made their captain strong. Luffy then suddenly wakes up and asks his crew whether or not he has won the Davy Back fight. Zoro tells him to relax and assures him that he won. Luffy lies with his head back down on the ground in relief. The rest of the crew is relieved as well. Foxy then appears and comments that Luffy has ruined his record. He extends his hand and tells him not to feel bad. Luffy extends his hand as well, which causes Porche and Hamburg to chuckle. All of a sudden, Foxy grabs Luffy's arm and attempts to do an overhead throw, but fails because Luffy's arm just stretches thanks to his Gomu Gomu no Mi abilities. Foxy gives up and yells to get the whole thing over with. Itomimizu declares that Luffy gets to choose a new crew member from the Foxy Pirates since he was the victor. Luffy doesn't choose any crew members, but instead he chooses to take the Foxy Pirates' flag, which surprises them. Sanji yells at Luffy, telling him that he should pick Gina instead. Luffy refuses, which relives Nami. Foxy calls Luffy evil for robbing them of their pride. Luffy responds by saying that he just wants the flag, not the sail because otherwise they wouldn't be able to leave. This causes the Foxy Pirates to call Luffy thoughtful until they realize that their jolly roger is in their sail as well and yell at Luffy because they think that he's only pretending to be nice to them. Luffy then tells them that he will erase the jolly roger on their sail and give them a new one. This causes Foxy to say that he is so nice. Luffy finishes the new jolly roger, but the Foxy Pirates are depressed by it because it was horribly designed. Luffy mistakes their depression for happiness and thinks they're so grateful despite them saying otherwise. Meanwhile, Porche chases Chopper. Usopp is happy about the fact that the Going Merry is free again. The Foxy Pirates depart on the Sexy Foxy, with their captain declaring that he will get revenge on the Straw Hats one day. Afterwards, the Straw Hats go to check up on Tonjit and Shelly. Luffy happily announces to the two that they defeated the Foxy Pirates, which causes them to smile. Chopper then tends to Shelly's injuries. Nami offers to give Tonjit and Shelly a ride on the Going Merry so that the two can reunite with their clan. However, Usopp says that the ten islands are actually the same and that they can't use the log pose to point to them individually. Tonjit tells them that it's okay and that he can wait. He goes to get the crew some food when he suddenly bumps into a very tall man who is sleeping while standing up. The man wakes up, asking who they are, a sentiment the Straw Hats mutually share. However, they notice Robin has fallen to the ground with a terrified expression upon seeing him. Zoro, Sanji, and Luffy grow concerned and prepare themselves for battle. The man turns out to be one of three Marine admirals, Admiral Aokiji. He comments that Robin has grown into a fine woman.

Noting Nico Robin's terrified expression at the man towering before them, Luffy asks his crewmate if she knows him. Aokiji states that they have met once before. The crew braces for battle, as Nami wonders who exactly this man is to frighten Robin to such an extent. Aokiji tells the crew to relax, as he is not here on any orders and was just going for a walk. Zoro makes note of Aokiji's reference to "orders", causing him to inquire who exactly he works for. Robin answers him, telling the crew that the man standing before them is a Marine Admiral. Sanji is noticeably shaken by the information, recognizing Admirals as the highest power of the Marines. Robin confirms this, noting that there are only three people in the Marines who hold this rank: "Akainu" the Red Dog, "Aokiji" the Blue Pheasant, and "Kizaru" the Yellow Monkey. Furthermore, the only person above these three is the Commander-In-Chief, Sengoku. Aokiji is thus one of the three men considered to be the ultimate assault force of the World Government. This absolutely horrifies Usopp, who cowers behind Zoro while he demands the Admiral chase down other pirate crews with higher bounties. Aokiji doesn't pay attention to this, instead flirting with Nami, which infuriates Sanji and Usopp. Aokiji attempts to calm them down, reminding the crew that he is only here for a walk, but he loses his train of thought, angering Sanji and Usopp further at his lack of coherence. Usopp asks Robin if she's sure someone like him could hold such a high position in the Marines, causing Aokiji to state not to judge him by his appearance. He announces that he upholds the motto of "Lazy Justice", which Sanji and Usopp do not object in the slightest. Aokiji states that it is time to rest due to his legs being tired from standing, prompting the crew to ask him why he was sleeping standing up in the first place.
Aokiji again reminds the crew that he is not here to arrest them, instead assuring them that he only wanted to confirm Nico Robin's whereabouts after the "Arabasta Incident". Sanji and Usopp make more off-hand comments about the man before them not being very Admiral-like, as Aokiji states that he is only going to report the discovery so that the bounty for the crew can be recalculated. He attempts to do the calculation himself, but gives in saying he is too lazy to count, which confuses Zoro. Luffy attempts to attack the Admiral, saying he won't let him take Robin, but he is held back by Usopp, who doesn't want his captain starting an unnecessary fight with someone allegedly so powerful. Aokiji again reminds the crew that he isn't here to fight, but Luffy isn't fazed his claim, still seeking combat. Luffy eventually tells the Admiral to leave. Aokiji intends to comply, but states that he overheard Tonjit's wishes during his light slumber. He tells Tonjit to pack his things and get ready to move, but Luffy tells him not to listen to the mysterious man, since he is a Marine. Tonjit questions why he shouldn't listen, causing Luffy to remember that as a pirate, he is usually considered the bad guy, while the opposite is true for the Marines. Usopp smacks Luffy on the head for his cluelessness, who perks up after he realizes that Aokiji truly wants to help Tonjit. Aokiji reveals that he heard of Tonjit's plan to ride Shelly across the low tide to the third island from their current location. Usopp reminds the Admiral however that this is currently not possible due to the horse being injured. Aokiji states that it will be fine, though Usopp notes that he doesn't seem convincing at all. Robin speaks up and confirms that he can help however, which grabs the crew's attention.
After packing his things, Tonjit, Shelly, and everyone else goes to the coastline. Aokiji says that it feels good to work out once in a while, which causes Luffy to agree and note that Aokiji is really a nice person. This isn't lost on Nami, who points out how Aokiji and Luffy all of a sudden seem like friends. Tonjit thanks the crew for their help by offering them cheese again, drawing Usopp's ire. Luffy asks Aokiji what his plan is now, who responds by having everyone stand back as he places his hand in the water. A Sea King suddenly emerges from the water to attack Aokiji, alarming the crew. Aokiji is not fazed at all and uses "Ice Age". The entire ocean before them is instantly frozen solid, including the Sea King itself. As the crew stands in disbelief at the sheer power of the Admiral, Robin reveals that Aokiji has eaten a Logia-class Devil Fruit, the Hie Hie no Mi. Aokiji tells Tonjit that his technique should hold for about a week, so he can take his time crossing, but should wear more clothing due to the cold. Tonjit can't believe his eyes, and is absolutely overjoyed that he will be able to reunite with his friends after ten long years. Tonjit and Luffy thank the Admiral for his help. Tonjit then bids farewell to the crew, again thanking them for their help as Chopper reminds Sherry to change its bandages. After the Straw Hats see Tonjit off, they make their way back up the coast in Aokiji's direction. Aokiji suddenly sits up from his prone position, causing Luffy to note his change in demeanor. He explains to Luffy that he is a lot like his grandfather. The mentioning of Luffy's grandfather quite noticeably shakes him, to the point that Usopp asks why he's suddenly sweating so much. Before Luffy can articulate his concern however, Aokiji mentions that he dealt with Luffy's grandfather a long time ago. While only here to see Robin, he states that maybe the Straw Hats should just die now.

Admiral Aokiji informs the Straw Hats that while the World Government is currently not taking them very seriously, he has analyzed them and assessed that they are a group of very determined individuals. Even though there is only a handful of them, the trouble that the Straw Hats have managed to cause have led Aokiji to believe that they will become a serious threat. He notes that the Straw Hats have grown at an extraordinary rate in the small time since Luffy acquired his first bounty; and though they have only fought other pirates up until now, he is concerned at what the future holds should they decide to pursue other quarry. Usopp wonders what is prompting all of this given that Aokiji was just out for a walk, and Aokiji adds that the Straw Hats are now especially dangerous with the addition of Nico Robin. This fires up Luffy for combat, who is now fully convinced that the Admiral is here to take his crewmate away. Aokiji ignores this as well, continuing to speak directly to Robin. He clarifies that a bounty is not only a reflection of the threat that one poses in combat, but also an indication of just how dangerous you are to the World Government. Aokiji calls attention to the fact that Robin received a very high bounty despite only being 8 years old, and has survived all these years by betraying her partners and using them as tools. With that being said, he directly asks Robin if the Straw Hats are her new tools for achieving her goals. Sanji is incensed at the attacks on Robin's character, questioning the Admiral on just what Robin did to him. Aokiji states that she has escaped from his custody before after he arrested her, but that is a story that the Straw Hats will learn soon enough. He continues by pointing out that every group that Robin has ever associated with has ended up completely annihilated, with her as the sole survivor. This further angers Luffy, who states that the past doesn't matter. This causes Aokiji to point out that Robin has already gained the group's trust, at which point, Robin has had enough. She asks the Admiral just what he's trying to do, as she seizes his body with "Treinta Flores (30 Flowers)", sprouting arms to grab him by the limbs and neck. Usopp freaks out that Robin would do this to an Admiral, while Aokiji himself casually laments that he thought Robin would be smarter than this. As Robin uses "clutch" to break his back and neck, Aokiji collapses into a pile of ice on the ground.
Chopper and Usopp react frantically; with Chopper thinking he is actually dead, and Usopp wanting the group to run immediately. Aokiji slowly reforms himself from the ice, much to Usopp's dismay. He grabs a handful of grass, tosses it aside, and blows cold air at the pieces to freeze it into a sword. Aokiji attempts to slice Robin, but Zoro blocks the attack. Sanji follows this up with a kick to disarm the Admiral, while Luffy prepares an attack as well. However, Aokiji grabs Sanji's leg and Zoro's arm, just before Luffy manages to land a "Gomu Gomu no Bullet" to the Admiral's stomach. The blow doesn't move the Admiral at all; instead Luffy's arm is frozen from the contact with his body, as he proceeds to freeze Sanji's leg and Zoro's arm. Nami notes that the Admiral took down all three of their strongest members with one move, as they all collapse in pain. Chopper states that they need to be treated immediately, or they will never heal properly. Aokiji tells Robin that she's found some good friends this time, but she's still herself. Robin tells the Admiral he is wrong, but before she can finish her sentence, he puts his arms around her and freezes her solid.
Luffy is absolutely infuriated at the Admiral's actions, however Aokiji tells him that Robin will live as long as she is thawed properly. He notes at the same time however, that her body is very brittle, and if she breaks apart, she will die. Aokiji then attempts to smash Robin with his fist, though he prefaces it as if he is giving a hypothetical demonstration. Luffy arrives barely in time to move Robin, but they are still right by Aokiji, so he attempts to follow up with a stomp to destroy her body. This time Usopp arrives at the last second to move Robin out of harm's way, leading to Luffy being stepped on. Luffy rolls away from Aokiji, and tells Chopper and Usopp to get Robin back to the ship immediately to thaw. Aokiji tells the crew not to bother saving a woman like Robin. Nami attempts to hit the Admiral with her Clima Tact, stating that the pirate world is filled with women like Robin. Aokiji questions just how much Nami knows this pirate world, before casually swatting her aside. This springs Zoro and Sanji into action once again, but Luffy stops them both, telling them that he wants to fight the Admiral alone. Luffy then asks Aokiji to settle the matter "man to man". Aokiji agrees, but warns Luffy that the fight will be to the death.

On the ship, Chopper and Usopp work frantically to revive Robin through her frozen body. However, their efforts are slow to produce results, with Chopper afraid for her fate. Hearing his lack of certainty, Usopp gets scared and argues with him about being the only one who can save her but Chopper retorts that he's never dealt with such a situation before. Continuously splashing water on her, Robin slowly begins to thaw just as Chopper hears voices calling him.
Outside the ship, Zoro, Sanji and Nami have returned, but without Luffy. Upon questioning this, Chopper is told that they will go back for him but their bodies need to be thawed first. Upon being told that Robin is already in the bathroom, Nami asks if she is alright, but Chopper remains uncertain. Suddenly, Zoro and Sanji jump into the sea hoping it will help them. Nami is told to assist with thawing Robin and goes to do so. Before long, Zoro and Sanji are asked by Usopp about Luffy, then revealing that he wanted to fight Admiral Aokiji alone. Angered, Usopp confronts the two of them and nearly brawls with Sanji before Zoro breaks them apart, telling them they need to prepare for the worst.
Out on the battlefield, a heavily-frozen Luffy pants heavily in the presence of the Marine Admiral. Rushing beneath him, Luffy manages to kick the massive man into the air and use Gomu Gomu no Storm. However, Aokiji soon comes down and freezes Luffy on contact with Ice Time, ending the battle. Seeing the frozen Luffy, Aokiji remembers agreeing to a one-on-one fight and thus would be breaking his word if he went after any of the other Straw Hats. Briefly wondering whether Luffy thought he could win the fight, Aokiji prepares to leave, telling him that he will soon experience the misfortune that Robin brings wherever she goes.
Telling him that though he could break him, he owes him a favor due to him helping in the fight against Crocodile, Aokiji calls it even, disregarding Smoker's message. Soon after, Sanji and Zoro arrive to find Luffy still in one piece and take him back to the ship. Looking at his map, Aokiji finds that the next city on it is Water 7, noting that they are getting closer to headquarters.
Back on the ship, Chopper tells everyone that Robin and Luffy's hearts are beating again. As they cheer, Chopper stops them from going further, telling them they still need to rest. Nami states that with them in such a condition, they should remain where they are for the day, though the log is ready. Zoro notices Usopp and asks what is wrong with him, to which the sniper asks if they will meet more such people soon. Meanwhile, in her bed, Robin awakens.

In order to give Luffy and Robin plenty of rest, Going Merry stays in Long Ring Long Land for another four days before setting sail. It is now the morning of the third day after they left. The climate is sunny and Spring-like, sometimes it is slightly Summer-ish.
The crew are seen relaxing on the Going Merry and indulging in their own preferred activity; Nami, sunbathing while eating the food made by Sanji, Zoro is sleeping until awoken by Sanji and Luffy, Chopper and Usopp are all goofing of impersonating "Frozen Luffy". Robin enters the deck to the excitement of the others, who are still concerned about her health.
As they all relax and eat the paille that Sanji made, they notice a giant frog swimming in free style and decide to catch it since Luffy states that he wishes to eat it. Noticing they are going off course, Nami spots a lighthouse up ahead, despite the fact the Log Pose is not pointing to it. Sanji and Robin both give their agreement in chasing after it in their own way despite Nami's exclamations. Going Merry continues at full speed towards the giant frog which has stopped moving.
Suddenly a large train appears moving towards them on the water and the Straw Hat Pirates narrowly escape being struck. The giant frog however, does not try to avoid it, attempting to block the train's path, and is hit and sent flying some distance into the water. On the platform nearby, a young girl calls for someone inside and an old woman appears with Zoro and Usopp noting her to be "too drunk".
The old woman introduces herself as being Kokoro and that the young girl is her granddaughter, Chimney. She also introduces their cat, which is actually a rabbit, Gonbe. Chimney explains that the train, Puffing Tom, which they saw earlier, runs on the tracks in the water and is seen nowhere in the world except from there. She continues to explain that the frog, Yokozuna, always jumps on the tracks to test his strength against the Puffing Tom, causing a lot of trouble. At this, Luffy states he will not eat "hardworking" animals.
After explaining the direction of the Log Pose, Kokoro informs them they are going to "Water 7" which is a city with the world's best ship construction sights. At this, Luffy decides that they will go there and find a shipwright to join their crew.

Before leaving, Kokoro hands the Straw Hat Pirates a simple map and letter of recommendation. As they bid farewell, the Straw Hats are warned that Marines may be on Water 7.
After visiting this strange train station of the sea, Luffy and friends leave the Shift Station to resume their search for a new shipmate. Destination: the City of Water, Water 7.
In comical fashion, the Straw Hats discuss their ideal mechanic, Sanji wanting the "hottest babe" and Luffy wanting a man that's sixteen feet tall. Zoro however states the main concern is finding a good carpenter willing to join pirates. Nami has a look at the map Kokoro gave them only to realize it is completely useless. Luffy shows a sketch of his ideal mechanic, although it looks anything but human, to his worried and amused crew. Nami then calls them to get their week's spending money.
As the crew remember all of the adventures they have had with Going Merry, they begin to imagine what it will be like after the repairs. Just then, Zoro spots Water 7 and the crew stare in amazement. A resident out fishing informs them how to enter and while passing through the streets, they realize that the buildings are built on submerged buildings. Another resident, after checking their intentions, tells them there is a small peninsula they can dock on.
After docking, Zoro accidentally breaks the mast showing how much damage the Going Merry has taken on their travels. While trying to fix the mast, the others discuss that there must be really strong people in Water 7 for the residents not to fear pirates. It is decided that Luffy, Usopp and Nami will take the gold to get exchanged and the letter to Iceburg, the man Kokoro mentioned.
Meanwhile in the city, the residents alert each other of trouble at dock 1 and race of to see. At the dock, the captain of the Big Helmet Pirates, Mikazuki, refuses to pay for the repairs the carpenters done. Iceburg is told about the chaos by a woman, Kalifa. The man in goggles states that they will not take the refusal silently and he along with the other carpenters easily defeat the Big Helmet Pirates. The name of the Water 7's shipwrights is the Galley-La Company.

Luffy, Nami and Usopp walk towards the city and decide it would be safer to go to the exchange first instead of carrying a cart of gold all around the city. They come across a "Rental Bull Shop" and without knowing what a bull is, Luffy asks to rent one. The man inside explains that there are three types of bull; Yagara Bulls, Rabuka Bulls and King Bulls. Once finding out they simply followed the Log Pose there, he continues to explain that bulls are crucial to citizens' everyday life and act as horses carrying them around town. When asked whether they can support heavy items, he tells the three that they are very strong and could carry anything, even gold. After seeing they really had gold, he comically tries to increase the rental price and then informs them that the exchange nearby will not have enough money and that the city center would be best.
Before leaving, the man gives them a map and bids them farewell as they begin to race the Yagara Bulls around town, even uphill. The bulls take them to the market via a shortcut showing that they are very intelligent creatures. There, they see a much larger bull carrying masked passengers while Luffy's bull takes him to a stall selling Mizu Mizu Meat to which he comments being soft and buys ten. Nami spots many other residents wearing masks however, her attention returns to the map as they move towards the "Aquatic Elevator". The three enter the elevator and realize that once the entrance closes, the water level increases taking them to the center of the city.
Meanwhile, back at Going Merry, Sanji calls out for Robin and Zoro explains that she and Chopper went to buy some things. Sanji decides to go shopping leaving only Zoro to guard Going Merry.
After exiting the Aquatic Elevator, the three notice that there is a crowd gathering at one of the docks and decide to go take a look. There, the crowd watches and names some of the Galley-La Company workers; "Lue-chan", Paulie (although not seen), "Lulu" and Tilestone. A spectator explains to Luffy that the workers of the Galley-La Company are the city's pride being both good fighters and carpenters.
Back on Going Merry, a group of attackers show up and attack Zoro who wants to know who they are.

On Going Merry, the attackers explain they are known as the Franky Family and are bounty hunters who are after the Straw Hat Pirates' bounties. Zoro easily defeats them using only two swords.
At the Market District, Robin and Chopper explore the streets where they see a mask stall. She explains that there has been a number of masked people walking by talking about a costume party which is taking place. The two then come across a bookstore which Chopper rushes into. On her way to the store, Robin passes a tall masked man who whispers "CP9" making her expression turn to one of panic and worry. Inside the bookstore, Chopper realizes that Robin has disappeared and goes in search of her.
Meanwhile, at a cashing exchange store, the three Straw Hats are offered 100 million belly for their gold to the excitement of Luffy and Usopp. Nami however, is not as happy and refuses to accept the offer mentioning Luffy's bounty and the offer being wrong. At this, they are offered three times as much which is happily accepted by the three. They are all seen leaving the store with suitcases filled with 100 million belly each. The three of them decide to return to the shipyard to find out the price of repairs.
Once back at the shipyard, they are stopped from entering by one of the workers who explains only workers are allowed in there. The worker, Kaku, who Luffy comically calls Usopp at first due to his long nose, is given the letter from Kokoro and explains that Iceburg is the mayor of Water 7 and the president of the Galley-La Company. After being told the location of the Straw Hat Pirates' ship, Kaku decides he will check the ship's condition and jumps of a cliff.
The Straw Hats watch in shock while Iceburg explains to them that Kaku always does this and explains he is a chief mechanic from Dock 1.

Sanji, who has hired a bull, is seen shopping for ingredients while dreaming of going on a date with Nami and Robin. Lost on his way to buy more ingredients, he spots Robin with the masked man walking past another building. She appears to ignore Sanji while he shouts over and runs towards the direction she was going. However, when he reaches there, both Robin and the masked man have disappeared. Joking about how she may be able to fly, he looks up and spots Kaku whom he mistakes for Usopp. Kaku arrives at the Going Merry where Zoro also mistakes him for Usopp. However, after thinking about it, he realizes he was mistaken and demands to know who he is.
At Dock 1, Kalifa explains to Iceburg who the Straw Hat Pirates are and what their collective bounty is. Iceburg formally introduces himself to them as well as his newly adopted rat, Tyrannosaurus. Kalifa reminds him of his many duties he has to do that day however he tells her he does not want to do his duties and she cancels them all, causing the Straw Hats to call him unreliable. This causes Kalifa to attack them although it is Iceburg who appears to have taken all the kicks.
Nami hands the letter from Kokoro saying to "Check Out Their Ship" which Iceburg instantly rips after reading. Despite this, he agrees and admits the reason he ripped the letter is because he did not like the kiss mark and that Kokoro was his drinking partner. Since they have to wait for Kaku's return and he has nothing better to do despite just cancelling all his appointments, he offers to show them around Dock 1.
Usopp notices the members of the Franky Family stealing their money and alerts the others. At the same time, one of the Galley-La Company carpenters who was seen before, Paulie, is being chased by debt collectors. To escape them, he jumps onto the Straw Hats' bulls and easily defeats the Franky Family. Usopp thanks Paulie for saving their money however, after finding the suitcases, he leaves with the money.

Paulie is brought back to Dock 1 by fellow carpenter, Rob Lucci, while being scolded by Hattori, Lucci's pet pigeon, for stealing money. Iceburg explains to the three that if they had not stopped Paulie, the Galley-La Company would lose face. He continues to explain that the Franky Family are professional ship scavengers that also work as bounty hunters and often cause chaos in Water 7. The Straw Hats note that they did not look that strong however, Iceburg warns them not to underestimate Franky himself.
At this, Lucci returns Paulie to Dock 1 while Hattori apologizes for the events and demands that they be apologized to. Paulie returns the money to Luffy but is hit over the head by Lucci while Hattori apologizes and explains that Paulie is in dept to a confused Luffy. Angered by this, Paulie throws Lucci who breaks his fall with only his fingers and Iceburg states that this is usual.
Comically, Luffy tells Paulie that the true enemy is the pigeon, Hattori, and yells that it should fight its own battles instead. Once returned back to Lucci's shoulder, Hattori introduces himself and Lucci. Nami finally realizes that Lucci is a ventriloquist amazing both Luffy and Usopp. Paulie states that he always speaks through the pigeon before getting mad at the way both Nami and Kalifa are dressed. As the doors of Dock 1 open, Iceburg explains that Lucci, Paulie and Kaku are part of the chief mechanics despite their odd personalities.
When entering, all of the carpenters greet Iceburg happily while the Straw Hats are shocked by the size of the shipyard. After they note how popular Iceburg is, Kalifa explains that he united the seven battling carpenter companies to make the Galley-La Company and despite becoming the leader, his technique and love of carpentry is still the same. Luffy asks Iceburg to join his crew shocking the whole of the Galley-La Company and explains that there is no repairman on their crew. Iceburg gives him permission to take any carpenter with him if they are willing to become a pirate, as for him, since he is mayor he cannot go.
Kaku returns to Dock 1 just as Usopp, who is carrying two of the suitcases, is attacked by the Franky Family. Nami notices the two suitcases Usopp was carrying sitting on the ground and suspects nothing. Kaku explains to them that even if the Galley-La Company repair as much as possible, there would be no chance of them reaching the next island in Going Merry. On Going Merry, Zoro is seen asking whether it cannot go any further.

Sanji and Chopper are seen travelling together after meeting up. While Chopper apologizes for getting separated from Nico Robin, Sanji begins to feel uneasy after realizing the masked man he saw was not Chopper, especially after what Aokiji warned them about. The pair decide to return to Going Merry where Zoro is seen just sitting awake.
Luffy offers the Galley-La Company as much money they want to fix Going Merry however, Kaku states that it is a miracle that they even reached Water 7. Paulie explains exactly what the keel is and how it is the "life-line" of the ship. Since the keel cannot be replace, the Going Merry is nothing more than a pile of wood waiting to be scrapped. and buy a new ship that Galley-La Company are willing to provide. Luffy, not wanting any change to the crew's ship, states his desire to keep sailing on the Going Merry. Iceburg however states the folly of what Luffy desires and what it would cause the crew. Although they plead with the Galley-La Company to remake their ship, Hattori explains that there are no two boats exactly the same as there are no identical trees in the world. Iceburg says that they can buy a new ship as they have the money for it however, Luffy refuses to accept their evaluation but is handed a catalog from Kalifa.
In the middle of the transaction, Peepley Lulu interrupts to tell Iceburg that there are visitors at the gate to which he is told to get rid of. Before he can, the guests, who turn out the be World Government officers, have all ready entered causing both Luffy and Nami to rush and hide. The leader of the officers, Corgi, claims to "smell" pirates however, ignores this and says he wishes to talk with Iceburg who childishly tells him to go away.
After they depart with Iceburg, the Galley-La Company are seen discussing why the World Government are always harassing him while Luffy comments on how light the suitcases are. After checking them, they realize that they are both empty while Peepley Lulu comments on seeing the Frankies with Kaku although he only remembers seeing the long nose. The pair overhearing this, realize that Usopp has been kidnapped and Luffy races off to find him while Nami gets the location of the Franky House from Paulie.
Nami decides to return to the Going Merry to get the others to help retrieve Usopp and their money however, on her way she sees a crowd gathering. Horrified, she sees a badly beaten Usopp dumped on the street and rushes over to see him. Usopp tearfully apologizes to her for being so useless and losing the money however Nami tells him they will definitely get the money back.

Nami leaves the badly injured Usopp behind, believing it is best not to move him in case his injuries get worse and races towards the Going Merry. On the Going Merry, Zoro explains to both Sanji and Chopper that it is impossible to repair the ship. Sanji is worried about Usopp's reaction and Robin being missing; however, Nami arrives and explains to them what happened to Usopp.
Meanwhile, at the Franky House, the members who stole the money hand it to Franky, who replies that they can finally buy the thing they've always wanted. It is explained that for three years they have gambled and spent all the money they earned. Franky hands them 5 million to spend on whatever they like; however, there is an explosion caused by Usopp who demands the money back. Desperately, he tries to grab the suitcase from Franky; however, he fails and Franky explains that nobody will help pirates and tells the others to do as they like with him. Usopp watches as Franky calmly leaves with all the money he stole while the other members begin to beat him up.
Nami who stayed behind on the ship to protects the remaining 100 million belly while the others search for the injured Usopp. They notice a trail of blood and realize he has gone on his own to retrieve the money; however, before they leave for the Franky House, Luffy falls into the river leaving Sanji to rescue him. The four leave towards the Franky House and once they arrive, they find an unconscious and badly injured Usopp outside. Angered by this, the four make their way to the entrance determined to get revenge.

As the Straw Hats make their way to the door of the Franky House, one of the members inside is sent to buy food and drink. Opening the door, he is greeted by the Straw Hat Pirates and is sent flying to the shock of the other members.
Underestimating the four, the Franky Family mock and threaten them however, after Luffy manages to smash a member's armor they realize how strong the Straw Hat Pirates really are. After trying to trick them, they fire multiple cannons which Zoro easily slice through despite them being made of iron. To the shock of the Franky Family, he also manages to cut the cannons himself. The Franky Family, realizing that they are not as weak as they thought, try to escape through the back door but are confronted by Sanji who stops them from escaping. Realizing it is not possible to escape via the exits, they attempt to flee out though the windows but are again stopped, this time by Chopper.
In an attempt to stop themselves being attacked any more, one member of the Franky Family, Zambai, informs them that the money they stole has been taken away by their boss, Franky. However, he is sent flying as the Straw Hats explain that the money is no longer important, it's what they did to Usopp. As a last measure, the Franky Family uses their special cannon to try and stop the attack however, the Straw Hats easily avoid the attacks and easily defeats the remaining members.
After destroying the Franky House, Chopper takes care of Usopp's wounds while the Straw Hats discuss what they should do next. Instead of waiting for Franky, they decide to return to their ship since they already have enough problems at the moment. Luffy then announces that it is time to say goodbye to Going Merry.

At the Galley-La Headquarters, Corgi is seen leaving talking about how they are still not sure whether Iceburg has "it" or not. Kalifa enters Iceburg's room with some tea asking why Corgi always comes after looking so angry when he leaves. Iceburg admit they are after something of his and keep making offers for it however, he always refuses. In the background, Nico Robin's bounty on his room wall.
Back at the Going Merry, Chopper announces that Usopp has finally woken up and the crew all go to see him. Usopp apologizes to them for losing the money and asks whether they can still repair the ship with only 100,000,000. However Luffy tells him they have decided to just buy another ship instead and shows him the catalogs. Usopp, confused by this, believes that he is joking and that it is because he lost the money that they cannot afford the repairs.
The two begin to get angry at each other while ignoring the warnings from Zoro and Chopper, but Luffy finally admits that the Going Merry is going to die. Usopp, refusing to believe this, thinks there is something more to it. However, Luffy denies this and tries to explain, but Usopp continues to disbelieve this. He states that the Going Merry is a friend and yet they would leave it to die. Usopp tries to allow them to let him be the carpenter however, Luffy admits that is impossible.
As the two get into a heated argument, the others try to stop them however they are simply ignored and continue to watch in pain. Finally, Luffy snaps and pins Usopp to the floor almost telling him if he is not happy, then he should leave. Sanji, angered by this, kicks Luffy and tells him not to say things he does not mean to or else he won't be able them back. Luffy attempts to apologize however, Usopp says that if they are leaving behind Going Merry, then they are leaving him behind too.
Usopp admits that he knew he could never catch up to them and that he never intended to go as far as them; he only went since he was invited. He states that those who have different dreams should go separate ways and leaves the Going Merry, stating that he quits. The others attempt to stop him, but he keeps going. He then states that since the ship belongs to the captain, he will take it from them and demands to duel Luffy.

An angered Nami rants at Luffy, trying to stop the upcoming duel, but Luffy does not pay much attention to it. As she continues to complain, he tells her to stop, explaining that there is no turning back and remembering Usopp telling Luffy that he will return at 10 PM to fight. He continues that Usopp would not give his life and tells Nami to "chill" which silences her.
On deck, Zoro and Sanji have an argument about Zoro's first encounter with the Franky Family, blaming each other for not taking them out then. Nami interrupts the pair as Chopper returns from trying to treat the heavily injured Usopp and being sent away, tearfully explaining Usopp's rejection of their friendship. Nami comments on it feeling like the whole group is falling apart.
At ten o'clock, Usopp returns to duel Luffy, who is already waiting for him in front of the Going Merry. The two exchange words, with Usopp stating that he will be the victor and explaining that unlike those Luffy's past opponents, he knows how to fight him. The others watch on as Usopp starts the fight with a lie. Chopper believes him and is told to go inside.
As Luffy charges, Usopp starts to attack him but suddenly collapses and coughs up some blood, causing the others to panic and Luffy to stop his attack. Usopp reveals it was just ketchup, blinds Luffy using a Flash Dial, and shoots rotten eggs at him. Angered, Luffy tells him to fight seriously, but Usopp explains that this is his actual fighting style before firing tabasco into Luffy's mouth. This causes him to fall onto Usopp's "Caltrop Hell", and Usopp says he plans to win via any means possible. The others comment on how fast Usopp's attacks have been.
As Luffy stumbles to his feet, Usopp fires a shuriken that Luffy avoids just in time. While catching his breath, Luffy notices clouds of gas surrounding him. Because of the rotten eggs masking the smell of gas, Usopp was able to spread it around him without it being detected. Usopp ignites the gas with fire, causing the area to explode and shocking the other Straw Hats, who can do nothing but watch.
As the pair sit exhausted after the blast, the Going Merry is seen with water running off of it, giving the impression it is crying.

The Straw Hat Pirates look on as Usopp and Luffy continue their duel in the smoke covered area. The pair attack at the same time, but Usopp reverses Luffy's attack with an Impact Dial. An exhausted Usopp is shocked to see that Luffy is still standing and the pair stare at each other while remembering making the Straw Hat Pirates' flag. Luffy finally hits Usopp with a final attack causing him to collapse to the ground completely defeated.
As the others watch in pain, Luffy walks towards the ship telling a defeated Usopp that the Going Merry is his as they will get a new ship. He bids farewell to him while remembering the good times that they have had together. Chopper, devastated by the events, attempts to check Usopp's wounds but he is stopped by Sanji who explains how painful it must feel for already being pitied.
As they leave the ship, all except for Zoro and Sanji are in tears as they say goodbye to both Usopp and Going Merry.

The morning after the duel, Usopp is seen on the deck of the silent and empty Going Merry. On the streets of Water 7, the citizens are seen discussing an incident that happened which they blame on Franky or the pirates in town. At the entrance to Dock 1, there are many people asking questions related to the incident including whether or not it was related to the destruction of the Franky House.
At the rooftop of an inn, the Straw Hats, excluding Nami, are seen sitting as Sanji enters remarking about how they spent money on rooms that none of them used. After Chopper asks where he went, Sanji explains to Chopper that he was keeping watch at the Peninsula for Robin and he has decided to look for her that day to which Chopper decides to look with him. At that moment, Nami rushes into the room and informs everyone that Iceburg had been shot.
A distressed Paulie is seen being called about the news and he is informed that Iceburg is alive but currently in a catatonic state. He is told to come to the Galley-La Headquarters where Lulu and Kaku are seen discussing the events and it is discovered that there is no possibility of it being a robbery and the World Government are also suspected. On the streets of Water 7, papers about the shooting are flying around with many unanswered questions on it; who did it and what their motive were. Paulie is seen racing through the streets stating that whoever did it is dead.
Nami explains to the others who Iceburg is and that he is still alive but in a catatonic state. Luffy decides to go see how he is and Nami decides to go too. Sanji asks if Zoro is going to come with him and Chopper however, he refuses saying that he will wait and see what happens. At the Blue Station, the Puffing Tom returns and Franky is seen exiting, unaware of what is happening in the city.
Meanwhile, at the Galley-La Headquarters, Iceburg is seen unconscious in bed while a doctor informs Rob Lucci and Kalifa that he was shot a total of five times. Lulu explains to Kaku that the doors did not appear to have been open and the only clue is a common mask while Paulie charges past the reporters to get inside Galley-La Headquarters.
Luffy and Nami race off to find out more information about the shooting as Franky arrives at where the Frank House used to be. He asks the two women accompanying him, Mozu and Kiwi, whether this is real to which they tell him that it is. Angered by this, he throws his mask away and realizes the culprits must have been the Straw Hat Pirates.

Angry at the destruction of the Franky House and his followers, Franky is angered and declares he can never forgive the Straw Hat Pirates. A small group of the Franky Family show up and explain they had been searching for the Straw Hats' location to allow Franky to avenge them.
At the Shift Station, a strong wind has appeared. Kokoro states that it is Karock, the South wind, and that the waves have become rougher. Declaring that the sea train will stop that night, she tells Chimney and Gonbe to get ready to go to the island as the "Aqua Laguna is coming".
Back at Water 7, the entire island is warned that Aqua Laguna is coming. Most of the residents, who had forgotten this, begin to act hastily. Sanji and Chopper, who heard the announcement, ask a citizen what "Aqua Laguna" is and it is revealed to be a high tide that will sink the town around midnight. A repeat announcement is seen before the location is changed to the Galley-La Company headquarters. A large group of reporters is outside questioning the members while Nami and Luffy are outside Shipyard 1 where a large group of concerned citizens are awaiting news of Iceburg.
Music suddenly begins to play which then causes panic to the people outside confusing both Nami and Luffy. Three figures behind a piece of fabric which appear standing on top of the archway. While the citizens shout insults, one figure demands that Luffy reveals himself. Throwing the fabric away, the figures are revealed to be Mozu and Kiwi with an unmasked Franky. As people begin to flee the scene, an angry looking Luffy yells at Franky asking who he is.
Back at the headquarters, Kalifa reveals Iceburg has woken up to the delight of the Galley-La Workers and the reporters outside. Iceburg reveals that he remembers the that there were two attackers, one a big man wearing a mask and a tall woman with black hair who he identifies as Nico Robin.

Luffy is confronted by Franky who is angry about the destruction of his house and the fact that his men were beaten up. He reveals that he has spent all the money that he stole from them. However, Luffy declares that the money is not important and that he will fight Franky. As the citizens continue to escape, Franky takes a stance and blows fire from his mouth. Luffy and Nami manage to dodge the blast and believe he may be a fellow Devil Fruit user, however, Franky jumps into the water below him. With a punch from below, Franky destroys Nami and Luffy's boat, revealing that he can swim, meaning he could not have eaten a Devil Fruit. As Luffy is about to attack, Franky attacks first, disconnecting his right hand (which is connected to his body via a chain) and smashes Luffy into the Dock 1's gate. As Luffy and Nami stare in disbelief, he reveals that he is a cyborg.
At the Galley-La Company HQ, the members discuss Robin and conclude that, since she is a member of the Straw Hat Pirates, they must all be involved. This is then revealed to the reporters outside and a poster with the three wanted Straw Hats - Luffy, Zoro, and Robin - is seen. Tilestone arrives into Iceburg's room and reveals that Luffy and Franky are fighting at the shipyard to the other members. All the members, except Iceburg and Kalifa, head off to the shipyard to confront Luffy. Iceburg ponders on what may be the goal of the attackers and whether they have teamed up with the World Government or if they are wanting "it" for themselves.
Back at the shipyard, Luffy and Franky continue to battle while destroying their surroundings. Nami, Mozu and Kiwi are seen cheering on at the sidelines. As Franky wields his cannon-like left arm, Luffy counterattacks and hits him with "Gomu Gomu no Muchi". However, somebody attacks Luffy and sends him crashing into rubble. It is revealed to be the chief mechanics from Galley-La Dock 1.

The Galley-La Company members interrupt the fight between Franky and Luffy at the shipyard, much to the annoyance of Franky. Paulie angrily confronts Luffy about his appearance at the shipyard. Franky concludes that not only did the Straw Hat Pirates messed with his family, but also the Galley-La Company too. Luffy however claims he and his crew did not do anything. Paulie, who believes he is lying, attacks Luffy and throws him into a pile of wood. As Franky angrily objects to the Galley-La's interruption, the other members prepare to attack much to the delight of the spectating crowd and surprise to the distressed Nami. As Luffy gets back onto his feet, the other members begin to attack. An angered Franky begins to attack both Luffy and the Galley-La. Kaku and Tilestone take care of him while Rob Lucci attacks Luffy, who is not returning attacks.
After being sent crashing into the surrounding material, Luffy declares that they give him a reason to why they are attacking him. However, Paulie declares it should be Luffy who should explain why the Straw Hat Pirates shot Iceburg, much to the surprise of the spectators, Franky, Nami, and Luffy himself. Paulie continues to reveal that Iceburg remembered that there were two attackers, one being Nico Robin, shocking both Luffy and Nami. Franky asks if Iceburg is dead and Paulie replies that it is because he is alive that he wishes to finish off Luffy. Luffy states that Robin could not be involved and that Iceburg must be mistaken. He asks to go see Iceburg but is denied.
The crowd, angry for the attack on the hero of Water 7, begin to attack Nami, realizing she too is part of Luffy's crew. Paulie explains that it's useless as the news will spread throughout Water 7.
As an announcement stating the Straw Hats were the culprits, Robin is seen sitting reading a newspaper.

The chapter opens with Sanji and Chopper yelling information about Aqua Laguna near the Going Merry as an attempt to let Usopp know and prepare for it without telling him directly. As the pair charge back to the town, Usopp is seen to have heard this but not identify the voices.
Back at the shipyard, Nami continues to struggle from the angry citizens, trying to reason with them. However, the citizens and Galley-La Company members fail to listen and declare that both them and the citizens of Water 7 now see them as enemies. The Galley-La members, now knowing of Luffy's Devil Fruit abilities, continue their attack. Luffy still refuses to attack and is blasted by a bazooka. The crowd cheer as a concerned Nami cries Luffy's name. She then notices Franky, Mozu and Kiwi sitting watching and drinking at a table. Still in a rage that the Galley-La Company members interrupted his fight, he throws the table to catch their attention. The members tell him simply to back off which infuriates him even more. The crowd begin to warn the Galley-La as Franky prepares to attack using his arms like a cannon. He reveals that it will shoot an air bullet which he used earlier and destroy the crane.
A huge ship is destroyed by the blast and the Galley-La Company members are thrown into the air. The crane falls and many of the citizens flee as Dock One is ruined. Nami manages to escape the crowd as Luffy emerges from the smoke unharmed. The pair decide to go confront Iceburg and to find out the truth. Mozu and Kiwi question Franky on what they will do next and he admits that that last attack was his last as shown by his hair which is flopped down on his face. He says that once he has refueled, he will go after Luffy, although he admits that it will be tough. The Galley-La Company all appear unharmed and discuss what they will do next. Since the Aqua Laguna is due that night, they conclude that the only way off the island is the two trains since the Going Merry is in no condition to sail. As Kokoro, Chimney, and Gonbe arrive in the city, the Galley-La Company states that this would be over by dawn.

Although they missed the announcement, Nami determines that a typhoon will most likely pass through the island using her knowledge of weather. It is shown that she and Luffy are sitting on a rooftop near the Galley-La Headquarters where reporters continue to crowd the entrance. Determined to discover the truth, Luffy, breaks into the Headquarters alone, smashing through a window to gain entry. In Iceburg's room, Kalifa informs him that Luffy has broken into the Headquarters and Iceburg then asks for a favor.
While being chased by Galley-La workers, Kalifa is seen calling Luffy when he passes. As the others pass the room, she denies seeing him and says that Iceburg is currently asleep. The workers decide to guard the room along with Kalifa. Inside the room, Luffy and Iceburg begin to talk about the shooting and Iceburg confirms that Nico Robin was one of the attackers. Pointing a gun at Luffy, he asks if he will allow him to see her one more time however Luffy explains he has no idea where she is.
A gun shot suddenly sounds throughout the building and everyone charges into Iceburg's room, where the window is seen to be open. Iceburg disappointingly states that he too wants to find the truth. Outside on the rooftop, Luffy reports his findings to Nami outside however, he states that he still does not believe Robin would do such a thing.
At Blueno's Bar, Franky appears with Mozu and Kiwi greeting the owner, Blueno and ordering cola. He is seen taking three empty bottles from a compartment in his stomach. Blueno asks whether Franky can pay and Mozu and Kiwi reveal they still have 1,000,000 of the belly they stole from the Straw Hats, shocking Franky. Franky then throws the money in the air exclaiming the drinks are on him. Kokoro, who has been in the bar since Franky entered, starts to talk to him. Chimney and Gonbe appear from the other side asking Franky for juice. Blueno hands him three cola bottles which he puts into the compartment referring to them as "fuel" and his hair sticks back up.
Kokoro and Franky begin to discuss Iceburg being shot, Kokoro suggesting that the World Government, who have been stalking him, would be more likely suspects than the pirates. She continues by bringing up an organization known as CP9 which both Franky and Blueno states as a rumor however, she insists that they exist by working in the shadow. Franky asks Kokoro why she is so confident they exist and she states she heard about it, which Franky comically says is a rumor.
At an empty storage room somewhere in a back street of Water 7, Nico Robin is seen with two unknown figures. They give her orders to retrieve "it" from Iceburg, the only living apprentice of Tom, in the name of CP9.

Luffy and Nami are seen escaping via the rooftops while an announcement rings out through Water 7 warning everyone of the approaching Aqua Laguna. Citizens are seen sealing their homes and businesses while at the Blue Station, inspectors are checking passengers in case the Straw Hats are attempting to escape though the sea train. Zoro is in an alley way reading the article about the attack last night while Galley-La members have arrived at the hotel to find the Straw Hats.
At the Rocky Peninsula where the Going Merry is docked, there are Galley-La Company workers also searching there for any members, although it appears to be abandoned. Usopp, who does not know anything of the latest events, is seen hiding behind a rock a distance from the boat preparing to attack wondering who they are and why they are there.
Since neither is pictured nor identified as part of the Straw Hat crew, Sanji and Chopper are able to wander freely without being chased. The pair is seen reading the schedule for the sea train worried that Robin may have tried to escape. Asking a random citizen about Robin's bounty picture, they are simply told that she, now much older than in the photograph, is the assassin. They decide it would be best to look for Robin in search of what is happening.
They finally spot her across the river from them and begin to find a way to get over however, she tells them to stay where they are. She announces that she will not be returning with them and that she was indeed guilty for what happened last night as well as forcing the blame on the Straw Hats. Both shocked and confused, Sanji and Chopper stare speechlessly as she bids them farewell. While walking away, Sanji starts to swim across the river while Chopper screams for her to come back. After failing to catch up to Robin, Sanji tells Chopper to find Luffy and tell him of the meeting with Robin while he will focus on a plan that he has.
At a bridge somewhere in Water 7, a group of Galley-La workers are seen searching for Luffy, Nami, and Zoro, who are hiding under the bridge. After they leave, Chopper arrives, finding the three of them by scent. The four escape to a rooftop where they can discuss without any interruption from angry citizens or Galley-La workers. Chopper explains about the conversation he and Sanji had with Robin and it is decided that they must find out whether Robin is a friend or foe.

On the rooftop, the four remaining Straw Hats continue to discuss what Robin said to Sanji and Chopper. Since she stated that the situation will get worse, they conclude that the only way that things could get any worse would be if the assassination would be successful. They continue to discuss what the connection between Robin and the masked man may be which leads Luffy to declare that they will go and catch Robin in order to find out the truth as speculating is no use.
Usopp is seen attempting to buy supplies with a small handful of money from a store. Although at first, he is refused, the shop owner finally agrees after Usopp reveals he is willing to trade in his tools. Watching him struggle forward with the items, he gives Usopp some food and then continues to watch him leave. Once back at the Going Merry, it is revealed that Usopp has decided to ride out the Aqua Laguna.
At Blueno's Bar, Franky suddenly rages out of the bar followed closely by Mozu and Kiwi. A confused Blueno wonders what happened while Kokoro simply says she has no idea how idiots think. Paulie and a group of Galley-La members decide to return to the Galley-La Headquarters while citizens hiding in the shipyard basement all discuss the rumors they heard about the Straw Hat Pirates.
Back at the Galley-La Company Headquarters, all the workers are seen guarding the outside while the elite five are all guarding Iceburg's bedroom. Inside, Kalifa is curious about why Iceburg keeps Nico Robin's bounty in his room to which he simply states that it is because she is a devil.
Outside, the Straw Hats are seen spying for chaos to start at the headquarters in a tree some distance away while someone wearing heeled shoes appears on a rooftop close to the building.

With Mozu and Kiwi struggling to keep up with the wind, Franky roams Water 7 in search for Luffy. The other members catch up with them and inform them that they saw Usopp, who they still believe to be a member of the Straw Hats, alone on the Going Merry. In an attempt to lure out Luffy, Franky decides to kidnap Usopp as bait.
At the Galley-La Headquarters, the four remaining Straw Hats continue to keep watch. Inside, Iceburg requests Kalifa to leave and to send in Paulie. Complying with his wishes, she leaves the area after sending in Paulie while the other four leave their seats as not to overhear. Iceburg is seen giving details of a task which Paulie accepts without question. As he leaves the room, he gives his excuses and leaves the remaining four to keep watch. He is next seen in the President's Room finding a safe and entering a combination which Iceburg gave him.
Nico Robin along with the bear-masked man are seen standing on a rooftop answering a Den Den Mushi saying they are both ready. An explosion suddenly goes off at the Galley-La Headquarters alerting everyone around the area and starting a panic causing Tilestone and Peepley Lulu to leave their post. A musketeer-styled assailant is seen being chased around using a spiked whip to escape to a higher floor where they are confronted by more Galley-La workers. Robin and the bear-masked man are also being chased around the area.
The Straw Hats, who were busy observing the chaos, realize that Luffy has disappeared.
Back in the President's Room, Paulie has found a pile of papers in the safe just as two other masked men appear.

Nico Robin and the bear-masked man are seen backed into a wall somewhere on the grounds of the Galley-La Headquarters. The pair throw a cloak up in the air covering them for a second while the Galley-La members shoot at them. As the cloak lands on the ground, the carpenters are shocked to see that the pair have disappeared right in front of them. Elsewhere on the grounds, the musketeer, who is able to jump around in mid air, continues to attack struggling carpenters with the spiked whip.
In the President's Room, the two masked men introduce themselves to be members of Cipher Pol No.9 (CP9). A shocked Paulie mentions that they should have been confronted by employees however, one of the two reveals a blood soaked hand while explaining that neither of them has seen any carpenters. In the hallway, a number of men are seen slumped on the wall and floor. The two men then tell Paulie to hand over both the documents and his life.
Outside, a uproar about the disappearance of Robin and the bear-masked man continues while the pair are seen walking in a darkly lit corridor. Pushing the bear-masked man against the wall, a doorway opens into Iceburg's room to find a shocked Iceburg waiting for them. The bear-masked man explains that this is the power of the Doa Doa no Mi and shoots Iceburg to the shock of Robin explaining "a good cook is never lazy in his preparation". He continues to confirm themselves to be CP9 and explains that the reason Iceburg was allowed to live only to frame the Straw Hat Pirates. He also explains that their main objection is the blueprints which they state he has handed down to Paulie who will be dealt with.
On their way to the Galley-La Headquarters, the three remaining Straw Hat Pirates discuss that the fact that Luffy will have arrived before them will work to their advantage since the front will be poorly defended. Jumping over the surrounding wall, the three are greeted by a large number of carpenters, much to their surprise. Somewhere in Water 7, Luffy is seen stuck between two buildings trying to get free.
Back inside Galley-La Headquarters, Tilestone's attention is brought to a carpenter calling for someone to come to the third floor. On arrival, he sees the bear-masked man sat awaiting the signal while a slumped over Kaku and a fallen Rob Lucci appear defeated.

Enraged at the sight of his two friends defeated, Tilestone attacks the bear-masked man who easily smashes it to pieces with only his fist. Tilestone, who never loses in strength, is easily defeated by one blow causing the other carpenters to panic.
Outside the Galley-La Headquarters, the three remaining Straw Hats are seen being chased by a large number of carpenters while wondering where Luffy has gone. Zoro, sick of being chased, charges at the carpenters while attacking using the back of his swords as to not cause any serious injuries (although Nami and Chopper both state that he still is).
Luffy, who is finally free, uses Gomu Gomu Rocket to get into the Galley-La Headquarters.
In Iceburg's room, he laughs that he never expected to meet Robin like this. Iceburg suddenly draw guns and he states that he wants to kill her as she is the only one who could revive the ancient weapons written in True History. Robin says that Iceburg is an outsider to this however, he reveals that he hold blueprints to the ancient weapon Pluton. He explains that the blueprints were handed down to him from Tom and that he should have burned them when the World Government found out. As he is about to pull the trigger, Robin restrains him and he states that the group who have really been deceived is CP9.
In the President's Room, Paulie still has the blueprints tightly in his grasp despite being covered in blood. As he falls to the ground defeated, he informs the two masked men that the blueprints are fakes.

Shocked by the news that the blueprints are fake, the two masked men continue to stay silent as Paulie explains he knows nothing about them nor what they are after. The pair decide to eliminate him since he is now involved however, they are interrupted by Luffy who comes crashing through the wall and initially notices a beaten Paulie before the two masked men. The skull-masked man kicks the wall just as Luffy manages to escape, breaking it with ease. Shocked by the strength of the kick, the bull masked man sneaks behind Luffy and restrains him to the ground. Restraining Paulie as well before they leave, the pair arrange with the others to meet in the bedroom and to not shoot Iceburg.
The musketeer is seen easily defeating Peepley Lulu while making their escape. One of the carpenters notes that "she" is escaping.
While trapped in the President's Room, Paulie and Luffy both agree to fight together for Iceburg and Robin respectively.
Back in the bedroom, all the members of CP9 arrive, one picking up Rob Lucci's hat on the way in. Hattori is also flying into the room and perches himself on the bull masked man's shoulders as he reveals himself to be Rob Lucci. It is seen outside that the defeated "Rob Lucci" and "Kaku" are simply look-a-likes as the skull-masked man is revealed to be Kaku. Kalifa also reveals herself to be the musketeer and Blueno, the bartender, as the Doa Doa no Mi user. Shocked by the fact that they are CP9, he sits listening as Rob Lucci tell him to state the blueprints' location or else there will be more victims.

After knocking out all of the shipwrights, Zoro, Nami, and Chopper run inside the Galley-La Headquarters while Luffy frees himself and Paulie from the restraints. All of them head towards Iceburg's room.
Meanwhile, Rob Lucci explains to Iceburg about the existence of Cipher Pol and CP9. He states the reason CP9 is not known to exist is because they have permission to kill anyone who does not cooperate. He continues by revealing that the World Government wishes to resurrect the ancient weapons in the name of justice.
As Rob Lucci decides to explain their theory while Kaku keeps track of Iceburg's pulse, he explains that it's odd that he would not try to hand down the real Pluton blueprints after being attacked, not unless he had already done so. As for the fakes, they are signed by Tom's Workers; Tom, Iceburg and Cutty Flam. He continues that Iceburg's mistake was that he thought that his enemies were not so close to him so they know of Tom's Workers whom are surrounded in mysteries so much so that it took them ages to deduce that Iceburg was a disciple and that the other, Cutty Flam, was confirmed dead 8 years ago by a government officer. However, the four of them remember that a year after they had arrived, a man arrived to see Iceburg and named himself only once. Cutty Flam is still alive and in Water 7 known by the name Franky, who had any opportunity to receive the Pluton blueprints since he was there selling material. It is stated that Iceburg's pulse confirms that it is all true.
Just as CP9 are about to escape, they are interrupted by Luffy, Paulie, Zoro, Nami and Chopper.

The four remaining Straw Hat Pirates along with Paulie break into the bedroom to be greeted by the sight of an injured Iceburg surrounded by Nico Robin and the CP9 members. Paulie is shocked when he realizes the situation and with Lucci's voice confirming that his friends are really his enemies, he begins to attack. Rob Lucci, however, stabs Paulie with only his finger after using Shigan.
Lucci then explains that the members of CP9 have all trained countless hours to make their bodies into weapons and have mastered numerous skills that soar above normal human capabilities, Rokushiki. As Lucci is about to eliminate Paulie, Luffy attacks him with Gomu Gomu no Gatling only for it to have no effect on Lucci after he uses Tekkai. Using Soru, Lucci manages to hit Luffy with Shigan to the neck. Luffy, who only escapes instant death due to his rubbery body, brings Paulie to where he and the Straw Hat Pirates are and explains to the CP9 that they promised to defeat those who were trying to kill Iceburg.
The Straw Hat Pirates then ask Robin to explain why she wishes to leave the crew and she states that if she is to stay with them, the dream which she would sacrifice anything for, would never be achieved. Iceburg interrupts only for Robin to attack to stop him interfering to the shock of those around her. Chopper asks if she is truly their enemy, but before she could reply, Lucci interrupts and informs the that the mansion will be engulfed in flames within two minutes, commenting that fire is an efficient way to destroy evidence. Lucci advises the Straw Hats to evacuate, if they can, as Kalifa, Kaku, and Blueno prepare to confront them. As Luffy is asked by Zoro if he is okay with Robin leaving the crew, he replies to him that he is not, and the four Straw Hats prepare for battle.

CP9 explains that fire will rise from the first floor and that they plan to frame the Straw Hat Pirates for the chaos. The Straw Hats, angered by this, all prepare to attack. Robin turns to leave while the Straw Hats and Iceburg all try to stop her. Luffy charges towards her but is blocked by Blueno, who easily dodges all of Luffy's attacks using Kamie and Soru. Using Geppo, Blueno appears to float in the air while Kalifa and Kaku attack using Rankyaku, sending Luffy flying back and cutting through the wall.
Zoro attacks Kaku and questions his inspection of the Going Merry, however Kaku reveals that even though he was incognito, he was serious about the ship's condition. The two continue to fight each other as Luffy notices Robin has finally reached the window. In a last-minute attempt to stop her, Luffy makes a start towards the window while Zoro is defeated by Kaku using Shigan. Luffy is caught and thrown against a wall by Lucci as Robin escapes through the window.
Rob Lucci then explains that CP9 have trained since they were young and are always sent out to extreme missions. He states that they have a huge difference in combat power compared to the Straw Hats. Kalifa interrupts and announces that it is almost time for the fire to start as Rob Lucci states he has something interesting for them. Lucci then begins to transform into an unknown creature, shocking everyone there.

Outside of the Galley-La Headquarters, the shipwrights are seen helping each other escape from the flames engulfing the building while inside, the group in Iceburg's bedroom watch in horror as Rob Lucci transforms using his Devil Fruit ability, Neko Neko no Mi, Model: Leopard. Grown massively in height, Rob Lucci towers over them explaining that of all the Devil Fruit types, Zoan users' special quality is to strengthen themselves physically as the more they train, the more powerful they become. Chopper then comments that carnivorous Zoan types were the most violent.
Kalifa informs them that the other shipwrights are on their way towards the bedroom. Lucci, with only a single Rankyaku, destroys the upper levels of the Galley-La Headquarters causing them to collapse. Nami and Chopper both run to escape the collapsing roof. Before Nami is hit by the collapsing ceiling, Chopper shoves her to safety and is buried himself. As Nami frantically begins to dig in the rubble in search of Chopper, Paulie manages to reach Iceburg and the pair attempt to escape however the CP9 stand in their way.
Just as Lucci is about to strike the pair, Luffy manages to hit him before he could use Tekkai. Lucci, who now has sharp nails and enhanced power, pierces through Luffy with Shigan, injuring him. Lucci then grabs Luffy and sends him flying somewhere in Water 7. Zoro then attacks, however it is ineffective against Lucci's Tekkai, and he shares the same fate as Luffy, being sent flying.
Outside the Galley-La Headquarters, the carpenters, who know nothing of what has happened inside, can only watch and hope that Iceburg has escaped with the help of Paulie, Kaku and Rob Lucci. As they continue to look on, a shipwright has spotted an unconscious Nami, who fell from the third floor, and identifies her as a member of the Straw Hat Pirates. Inside, Iceburg and Paulie are unconscious and tied up while a distressed Tyrannosaurus is by their side.
On a rooftop close by, the CP9 members are seen watching the Galley-La Headquarters burn while Rob Lucci explains that there is now nobody to confirm the truth. As though talking to Iceburg, he states that an ordinary citizen should never defy such a large government. He then states that their next job is to retrieve the blueprints from Tom's second disciple, Franky.

The fire rages on at the Galley-La Headquarters and can be seen from some distance. Kokoro, Chimney, and Gonbe are seen watching on a roof of Blueno's Bar as Kokoro stating that her intuition was correct and that "thing" should have never existed in this world. Meanwhile, the CP9 members go in search of Franky's location. They spot members of the Franky Family below yelling a message for Luffy. Rob Lucci, wearing a mask to conceals his identity, asks them where Franky is however they do not reply and instead state they will teach him a lesson.
At the warehouse under the bridge, Franky, Mozu and Kiwi are seen crying while a confused Usopp asks them why they are doing so. Franky states he was touched by hearing of Usopp's determination in protecting the Going Merry, which is also in the base, alone. The pair begin to chat about the events involving the money and disagreement with the Straw Hat Pirates in a comical manner. Franky calls it evens and offers Usopp a place in the Franky Family however, the offer is refused as Usopp admits he's still a pirate at heart which causes Franky to get emotional again.
Franky then informs Usopp of the high tide, Aqua Laguna, which will be arriving as they speak. He continues to explain that they will be safe there and that despite the evacuation being an annual event, the real problem for Water 7 is the rising water level. He explains that Water 7 was once built in a center of an island which has now appeared to have sunk. The conversation continues to the Sea Train, Puffing Tom, and how it was all down to the work of the great ship mechanic, Tom.
Back on the streets of Water 7, the Franky Family lay defeated before Rob Lucci who has acquired the location of Franky. The CP9 begin to move to the location of Franky.
Back at the hideout, Mozu and Kiwi question Usopp on his plan for after the repairs of the Going Merry are complete to which he explains his thoughts of returning home. Franky however, states that it is impossible for the ship to make it. He admits that when he brought the ship there, he had checked its condition and confirmed the Galley-La Company's evaluation was correct. As he begins to move towards the Going Merry to dismantle it, Usopp stands in his way ready to attack.

Franky states he will dismantle the Going Merry to the shock of everyone in the hideout. He continues to explain the reason he will do so is because Usopp stated he wants to return home and not throw his life away along with the boat. He states that a boat's wish is to "carry you from this land to that land" and that it can no longer keep that wish.
Usopp watches in horror as Franky begins to rip apart the Going Merry and attempts to stop him. With the attack failed, Franky slams Usopp into the water to see for himself to the shock of the onlooking Mozu and Kiwi.
Underwater, Usopp has no choice but to look at the severely damaged keel of Merry. Trying to ignore the problem, he continues to fix Merry after coming out of the water as Mozu and Kiwi look on saddened. Franky continues to explain however, Usopp admits that he already knew that Going Merry could no longer travel. He continues to explain the night in Skypiea where he saw the ghost repairing the ship and explains he believes it to be the incarnation of Going Merry.
Franky describes the appearance of the ghost shocking Usopp and continues to explain that what he saw was a Klabautermann. He explains that it is a legend of a fairy that dwells on well cared ships and that it is indeed more or less the ship's incarnation. It apparently helps out in many ways, the main one being the spirit warning the crew when the ship is in danger.
As they finish their discussion, a knock is heard at the door: the CP9 have arrived.

Mozu and Kiwi believe that it is Zambai and the others at the door however, Franky states that he would use the other entrance but they insist that they may have caught the Straw Hats. Usopp adds that there is no way they would come to save him as they are no longer crewmates. As the doorbell continues to ring, Mozu and Kiwi decide to answer it while Franky explains that Usopp should return to the Straw Hat Pirates since the problem has been resolved. This starts another argument between the pair as Usopp refuses to leave the Going Merry despite the claims that if he sinks along with the ship, it will never die happily.
At this moment, Mozu is sent flying over to where the pair stand shocked as they watch Kiwi being knocked out by Kalifa. Angry at the attack on his friends, Franky lunges to attack but is blocked by Blueno who he is shocked to see. Franky easily lifts Blueno into the air, realizing that there is something bad is happening however, he is kicked over to Usopp who is shocked to see the Galley-la Workers he met the day before. Franky, confused to why he is being attacked by the four and angry about the attack of his "sisters" questions how they found out about the hideout.
Rob Lucci informs them that the four attackers are spies for the World Government and that their life in Water 7 was fake. They also reveal that they know his real name shocking Franky even more however, he acts calm and asks them how Iceburg is. Lucci tells him that he is dead, which Franky appears both shocked and devastated to hear, and that they are after the blueprints to Pluton. Franky recalls a much younger Iceburg naming him "Franky" and attacks Lucci who in seconds smashes Franky through a wall and into another room while Usopp watches, unable to prevent anything.
The CP9, unaware that there was another room, begin to search it and find plates engraved with the names "Cutty Flam", "Iceburg" and "Tom". Franky tells them to get out of the room as it is where he grew up and the world's best shipwrighter lived. While explaining this, a photo of all the members of Tom's Workers is seen in the room.

As the wind and waves get worse in Water 7, Franky continues to guard the room as the CP9 understand that this hideout was once the office of Tom's Workers. While Usopp watches, confused by what is happening, Rob Lucci picks up the photograph explaining that they will leave when the blueprints to Pluton have been handed over. When he replies that the blueprints are not there, Rob Lucci kicks one of the work places as Kalifa binds Franky in her thorned whip. Usopp panics as he continues to have no idea of what is happening while Lucci states that they have the trump card that "Cutty Flam" had committed a crime, just as Tom had done. At this, Franky angrily states that Tom was not a criminal however, he is kicked by Lucci as Usopp is seen holding his slingshot. Remembering what Tom had told him, he asks the CP9 how much they really know about Water 7.
At this, the story goes back 22 years where a twelve year old Cutty Flam is seen firing cannons on "Battle Franky 8" at a sea monster in pursuit of him which finally destroys the boat sending him flying. Cutty Flam is seen with a bump on his head being scolded by a sixteen year old Iceburg for building dangerous things instead of helping out. It is explained that the Battle Franky's are Cutty Flam's important battleships which are built using the scrap from Scrap Island and that he is determined to build one capable of defeating a Sea King. Iceburg laughs at this stating it would not be possible as Tom arrives, throwing a ship into the air along with three poles completing the ship and putting it in the water, along with his pet, Yokozuna.
The three return home to Tom's Workers' Main Office, which is now the warehouse under the bridge, and are seen enjoying meal made by their beautiful secretary, Kokoro. Cutty Flam and Iceburg are seen arguing and fighting while Kokoro informs them that the trade ship carrying wood was taken by pirate ships and continues to explain that the number of pirate ships have increased since the death of the Pirate King. She continues to explain that Water 7 can only get its supplies from other ships but due to the violent weather and pirates, they often cannot get any, if it continues, she states that it will most likely shrivel up and just be an island waiting to be flooded.
Cutty Flam interrupts, asking Tom to show him the blueprints of the pirate ship he made however, Tom explains that there is no pirate ship in the world that has blueprints since it is just a ship with a skull painting on the flag. That night, Cutty Flam watches as Tom draws what he calls the island's "hope" as he believes that this may be the thing that can revive Water 7.
The next day, a Judicial ship arrives at Water 7 and Tom is seen being taken away as the others watch in panic however, he reassures them that everything will be fine. In the courtroom, it is explained that Tom's crime was building the ship used by Gol D. Roger and that, as punishment, he will be taken to Enies Lobby to be executed.

Outside of the Judicial ship, it is announced that Tom is to be executed for building a pirate ship, shocking both Cutty Flam and Iceburg. Inside, the judge explains that normally those who build pirate ships are not important however, due to the fact that it was used by such a well known, dangerous pirate, he is also classed as dangerous. The marines attempt to take Tom away however, he begins to explain that he is developing plans for a steam engine paddle ship that will run on the surface of the sea. He continues to explain that the disuse of the island is due to the bad trade and that the running of the sea train would be the savior of the city.
The marines continue to try move Tom however, the judge tells them to wait and questions him on the sea train. Tom explains that it will be a train will run on tracks from island to island and will be capable of carrying people, items and even ships and will be capable of crossing the sea at will without being affected by the weather. Other carpenters watching mock him and question him on how he would expect the tracks to be unaffected by Aqua Laguna. Tom answers this by stating that the track would sway a little underwater and will not go against the waves them self and that they would be a guild for the Sea Train so logs are not needed. He continues to explain that he has thought of a dissonance that the fish will not like so they will not attack the train and that three islands will be connected; St. Poplar, Pucci, and San Faldo.
The crowd are amazed by this along with the judge who questions whether it would be possible to also connect Enies Lobby to which Tom admits it is possible. After stating that it would be the hope of the island, the crowd stare in shock and amazing as he admits it would take ten years for it to be built. The judge declares a stay of execution for ten years so that he could build the Sea Train and wishes him luck.
At the Main Office, Tom's Workers all sit to a meal and discuss what had happened in the court while Tom sits laughing. Kokoro hopes that the completion of the Sea Train will get him off the hook whereas Iceburg is excited about making the Sea Train. Cutty Flam however, rushes his meal and goes away sulking, telling Yokozuna that he will teach him the front crawl however, Iceburg questions his attitude. At this, Cutty Flam erupts, yelling about how unfair it is for the man who built the only ship to travel the whole of the Grand Line to be treated so badly. Tom simply laughs as Cutty Flam goes to hit him while Iceburg tries to stop him.
While Cutty Flam is training Yokozuna the front crawl, Iceburg angrily states they should get rid of Cutty Flam and that he hates him. However, Tom states that he is part of their group and although he builds dangerous things, his ship building skills are very close to those of Water 7. He recalls how he found Cutty Flam, who had arrived on Scrap Island, and that he was able to build a cannon out of scrap. He laughs that Cutty Flam explained that his parents, who were most likely pirates, had kicked him off their ship. Tom explains that he is sturdy but not shaped however, the pair will become ship builders who will go out into the world so they should get along despite Iceburg's refusal at this. It is then stated that the blueprint are finished and that they will start building however, when questioned about Cutty Flam, he simply states he can do as he likes.
Tom shows both Iceburg and Yokozuna the plans to the Sea Train and they begin to start work on it while Cutty Flam completes his next Battle Franky although nobody pays attention. Finally, he is also seen helping out with the construction of the Sea Train, the group going through many mishaps during all types of weather.
Ten years later, the bad trade and rising sea level has made Water 7 even more isolated than ever with the citizens desperate. Suddenly, it is announced that the Sea Train is complete and everyone goes to see it with many boarding to ride it. As the Sea Train drives across the sea, Tom's Workers excluding Kokoro who is driving the train, happily watch it leaves Water 7.

After successfully opening the Sea Train to the public, it took Tom's Workers another four years to build the other three railways. Despite this, other islands were taking advantage of Water 7's need of materials. Tom's future would be decided within three days, so he continued to work while he awaited judgment. Iceburg questions if things really will change however, Tom confidently exclaims that the results will happen in the long run.
At that moment, they are interrupted by some men who had been looking for Tom. Before they can introduce themselves, a cannon hits Spandam, the supervisor of Cipher Pol No. 5. As the other members look at Spandam, Cutty Flam reveals it was he who hit him with a cannon from his latest model in the Battle Franky's, which has successfully defeated a Sea King.
Iceburg begins to hit the Battle Franky's while Cutty Flam attempts to stop him. Iceburg explains that despite the fact that they are not created for injuring people, if they are left lying about and found by someone with other intentions, they could be extremely dangerous. As Tom chuckles at the pair, Spandam tells them to listen to him. Tom questions whether it is about the trial however he is told that CP5 know nothing of that.
Iceburg and Cutty Flam return back to headquarters where Kokoro and Yokozuna are waiting. The pair explain to them that Tom is talking privately with Spandam. They all believe he was talking about the trial however, Tom is seen saying he knows nothing about some blueprints. Spandam exclaims that he is lying and that he knows about him being the shipwright who built Gol D. Roger's ship, Oro Jackson. Tom chuckles that the World Government already knows this to Spandam's surprise and he tells him to research why that is.
Doing so, Spandam is seen asking a barman about this to which it is explained that since he kept his promise, Tom will most likely have all charges against him dropped. Spandam recalls when he got the Five Elders to leave the matter of the Pluton blueprints in his hands. He exclaims that there will be no "acquittal" and orders more agents to be brought to Water 7.
Back at headquarters, Tom calls both Iceburg and Franky and gives them the blueprints which instantly shocked them with surprise. They are informed that the World Government know of the blueprints and it is no longer safe for him to have them. Iceburg calmly agrees to take care of them while Cutty Flam excitedly exclaims they should build it. Tom chuckles and tells them to do as they like and also shows Nico Robin's bounty which he states is something which worries him.
On the day of the trial, Cutty Flam goes into town to buy things to celebrate when Tom is proven innocent. Kokoro comically gives Cutty Flam trousers then goes to wake up the sleeping Tom and Iceburg as the court arrives. Tom's judge also appears to already know Tom's charges will be dropped. As Cutty Flam looks at the ship, it is attacked by a bunch of battle ships which turn out to be his Battle Franky's. He continues to look on as he witnesses the suffering his ships are causing.
Iceburg alerts Tom and Kokoro about the ships attacking. At this, Kokoro states it's not Cutty Flam to which Iceburg snaps that he already knew. As the pair race to Scrap Island, the same thing Cutty Flam is doing, Spandam is seen gleefully watching the devastation close by.

The attack on the Shihousen continues as the residents of Water 7 and the marines evacuate the area. One of the residents begins to recognize the ships while on board the Battle Franky's, the ones causing the chaos state that Spandam called it a "sacrifice for judgment". Cutty Flam continues towards Scrap Island as while both Tom and Iceburg are already there and on their way towards the ships. However, by the time they reach them, they are all completely empty. As Iceburg wonders what is happening, Tom notices two other Battle Franky's preparing to attack them and they do, the ships the pair were on burst into flames.
At that moment, Cutty Flam arrives and instantly notices the injured Tom and Iceburg lying on the island. As Iceburg gets to his feet, he punches Cutty Flam in the face and tells him that everything was caused by his ships which were in the control of the World Government. As he explains that although the creators purpose for the weapon may be different, they can still cause damage in the hands of others. Upset by what has happened, Iceburg states he will never forgive Cutty Flam for what he has done to which the pair both begin to cry.
At this, Tom tells the pair to stop and despite Iceburg being shocked he could still forgive him, he states that Cutty Flam is not a bad kid. At this, it is explained that the harpoon that Tom had been hit with is impossible to take out but he laughs saying that he does not feel it at all. Residents of Water 7 arrive and are shocked to see them injured however, they still say they are to blame. Spandam also arrives on Scrap Island and he claims that all three are the criminals, and they are taken to the judge who believes all which Spandam claims.
Spandam, knowing that it would be impossible to talk their way out of, watches with glee while others watch in shock and dismay. As the judge explains that Tom would have had all charges against him dropped, Cutty Flam interrupts and informs the judge that it was Spandam who was behind the attack which is simply laughed at. Spandam states that not only were they caught red-handed, the ships were also made by the company however, as he remembers the injuries caused by them, he disowns them all. At this, Tom breaks from his chains and punches him for this which shocks even Iceburg who states this is the first time that he has lifted his hand to him.
Tom explains that it is for saying that they were not his ships despite the fact he took care and consideration in building them. He continues by saying that a ship does not begin as good nor evil and he does not care the type of ships that Cutty Flam makes, a ship's parent should give it love despite what it has been made to do. While saying this, he rips out the harpoon that pierced through him. As Cutty Flam begins to cry, he tells both him and Iceburg not to let another sound come out of their mouths as the onlookers glance in shock.

As the residents run believing that Tom has gone berserk, he realizes that he was framed by the World Government and that this is the end. Looking at Spandam, he thinks about how Cutty Flam must hate him for what he caused his ships to do so he punches Spandam for it. The other members of Tom's Workers watch in shock as he is shot by the other marines. It turns out he was hit by tranquilizer pellets as he falls to his knees but continues to keep conscious. As the onlookers state how violent he is, Cutty Flam yells at them but is interrupted by Tom.
Tom then confesses to the attack that day to the shock of the others, especially Cutty Flam. He then asks for a request from the judge which Spandam attempts to stop however, the judge allows him to say his request. Tom then says that since if building the Sea Train would allow any one crime disappear, he would like it to be the one which happened this day instead. He is reminded that things will return to what it was twelve years ago but he simply states that he is proud that he lent Gol D. Roger that strength.
At this, the crowd disgustedly start shouting insults to him although he is no longer interested in what they are saying. Cutty Flam, confused and upset, asks why he did this and he is told not to torture himself over it, despite the World Government wanting the blueprints, it was his dealings with Gol D. Roger which had got them into this situation. He explains that things have changed since twelve years ago, the island is full of power and he managed to help the island which was his dream and at this, he collapses.
Tom's Workers all watch in shock at this while Spandam declares that the drugs have finally worked and that they should all be arrested. However, the judge declares that the charges have been changed and that only Tom will be arrested for building Gol D. Roger's ship. Although not happy by this, Spandam agrees since he only needs Tom. Tom's Workers are all in tears, Kokoro explaining Tom can no longer be saved and that he saved the two of them. She continues by saying that nobody has ever returned from Enies Lobby since it is a Judgmental Island. As Spandam insults Tom, Cutty Flam can no longer take it and smashes his face with a gun so hard that his face becomes messed up. Despite the calls from Iceburg, Kokoro, and Yokozuna, he continues to go berserk and attacks the marines that have been given permission to shoot him.
The Sea Train is then seen leaving Water 7 with Spandam inside stating that he will never forgive Cutty Flam, who escaped the marines, for what he did and will return to capture him later. At that moment, one of the marines runs into the room and says that Cutty Flam has followed them and is standing on the track with some form of weapon. Yokozuna is also with him but on a boat besides the track watching as he is told not to move. Spandam tells them to run him over as Cutty Flam begins to fire cannons at the Puffing Tom however, they fail to stop the train.
As the train draws closer, Yokozuna begins to panic while Cutty Flam throws away the weapon and decides to try stop the train with his own strength. He remembers when he first met Tom who laughed when he explains he was abandoned and without question, invited him to stay with him. With tears in his eyes, the train reaches him and he attempts to stop it stating that he no longer wishes to build ships that would hurt people important to him but his own goal is still to learn more from Tom. At this, the train throws him into the air at full force and he thinks about his dream to build a dream ship that will sail to the end of the world.

The news of the death of Cutty Flam begin to travel around Water 7, while Iceburg looks on and Kokoro begins to drink. She tells him that he is the first student of the "World's Greatest Shipwright" and he begins to leave stating that they will have to have drinks some other day. As he turns away, he states that now he will change Water 7, just as Tom did.
Meanwhile, somewhere at sea, Cutty Flam's destroyed body is seen floating and, to his own surprise, he is still alive. As he thinks that he will probably die at one point, he sees a ship sailing, on which he manages to board despite the current condition he's in. Nobody is on board and it appears to be a scrapped ship filled with scrap metal. He states how calming his surroundings make him and decides the first thing he has to do is something about his useless body.
Four years later at Water 7, the Galley-La Company has finally started to get on track and Iceburg had been nominated as the mayor. In an office, Kalifa is seen telling Iceburg he has a visitor who claims to be "Cutty Flam" and at that he stops his work. He quizzes Kalifa about whether he really said that to which she confirms, adding that he was wearing swimming trunks and asks whether he should be escorted to him. However, he declines this and tells her to kick him out.
One night at Tom's Workers' headquarters, the pair meet up and Iceburg asks about Cutty Flam's strange appearance. At this, he explains his body had become completely useless and that he had to fix it with only scrap metal and stuff. He then shouts about how Iceburg could accept a job from the World Government despite the fact that they were the ones who killed Tom. However, he states that it was Cutty Flam who gave them the excuse by building the weapons. He continues to say that although Tom may have forgiven him, he never will.
Iceburg is then seen giving Cutty Flam the blueprints for the weapon Pluton, which he recognizes straight away. Iceburg then tells him to throw away his name "Cutty Flam", as he is now dead to everyone, and get off the island with the documents. Franky then questions what would happen to Iceburg if it is discovered that he does not have the blueprints. The question is not answered and instead he states that if he had the blueprints he would not give them up even if his life depended on it. As he is about to leave, Iceburg states that he is happy that Franky is still alive despite the fact he still has not forgiven him. At this, Franky states he will not leave the island and this shocks Iceburg.
It then returns to the present events where Rob Lucci tells Franky that the "Tom" they were told of had good skill but was a violent fish-man with great power. Despite this, Franky tells them that he does not care about the World Government and will not say anything. Lucci continues to explain that despite hurting so many people, his crimes were dropped due to the fact he was confirmed as dead however, he will be escorted to Enies Lobby as a criminal. Blueno then takes out a Den Den Mushi and hands it to Lucci who then hands the receiver to Franky, stating their chief wanted to speak to him immediately.
Although the start of the call begins with the chief spilling coffee, he then goes on to say he could not believe that the criminal who he had thought was dead for so many years was still alive. Realizing Franky is unsure who he is, he reveals that he was the one who had arrested Tom as part of CP5, Spandam. As Franky finds out who he is, the CP9 are told to bring him as fast as possible. As they are about to leave, Usopp tells them to leave him alone before backing off after Rob Lucci's glare. It is then that Kaku recalls him being one of the Straw Hat Pirates.
At the Galley-La Headquarters, fires continue to rage through the building while the workers try their hardest to put out the flames without much luck. Just then Chopper, who is in his reindeer form, comes smashing through the window carrying Paulie, Iceburg and Tyrannosaurus with one of Zoro's katana in his mouth. As he tries to make his way to heal Nami, he collapses and the carpenters all decide to help him as well as Iceburg and Paulie since he saved their lives.

Franky looks on as Usopp is easily defeated by Kaku as the CP9 decide to take him along with them since he has not given up being a pirate despite no longer being part of the Straw Hat Pirates. As Kalifa goes to tie him up, Kaku makes his way to the Going Merry stating that his evaluation of the boats condition was true and that it should be scrapped. He then releases the water sending the Going Merry crashing into the rapid waves leaving both Franky and Usopp to watch in horror.
At the Galley-La Company, Iceburg begins to awaken to the delight of everyone there however, they are unsure what to do with Chopper since he saved his life despite being their enemy. Nami also begins to awaken and Iceburg asks for the others to leave while he talks privately with her. Although shocked and unsure by this, the shipwrights leave the pair alone. Once it is confirmed that Robin changed shortly after arriving on the island, he concludes that it must have been then that the World Government put their plan into action.
After shocking Nami by telling her how both he and Robin have the ability to awaken a weapon capable of destroying the world, he recalls the events that unfolded while he was left with Robin guarding him. Upon the discovery that the blueprints he had was fake, Iceburg told her that he would rather give his life over than the blueprints. However, after she states she only wishes to learn history, the pair begin to argue with Iceburg finally asking why she would assist the World Government she hates so much.
She then explains to him that she wishes for her wish to be granted and that she was given two conditions; to frame the Straw Hat Pirates and afterwards to obey the World Government. After being asked why she would agree to such things, it is learned that Buster Call, which summons five vice admirals and ten warships, would go against the Straw Hat Pirates if the CP9 wish them to for this one occasion as they were given permission by Admiral Aokiji. She continues to say that she had only been able to escape for twenty years as she had nothing to protect however, that is no longer the case and that her wish is that the six Straw Hat Pirates excluding herself, would get off the island safely. When he questions whether she cares that that would cause Pluton to be awakened and destroy the planet, she admits she does not care about that.
Nami, shocked by hearing that Robin is doing all this for them, collapses in relief that she did not betray them after all. Excitedly, she runs off to tell the others the good news explaining to Iceburg that they will go and safe her as once they are decided upon something, they all become much stronger. While Nami attempts to awaken Chopper, he recalls what Sanji told him before they split up that day.
At the Blue Station, the last train prepares to depart as Robin arrives to the waiting Corgi as Sanji watches close by.

At the entrance of Blue Station, Robin arrives and is told to board the Sea Train first by Corgi who laughs at the fact that the woman he had been chasing for so long had finally given herself up. Sanji, who is watching from afar, notes on how it looks as if she is being taken away despite the fact she could escape easily and that she must be after something or has a reason for not escaping. His train of thought is then interrupted by the arrival of the CP9 who are carrying both Usopp and Franky and states that despite Usopp claimed he would no longer cause them trouble, it feels as if he is.
At the Galley-La Headquarters, an awoken Chopper is happy to find out that Robin has not betrayed them as the crowd watches in amazement while he changes forms. However, they are interrupted by Iceburg who explains to them that the CP9 are most likely going to Blue Station to get the last Sea Train, as that will be the only safe way to travel, since the Aqua Laguna will be due to arrive sometime soon. It is revealed that they only have half an hour to make their way to the station as the train will leave then and cannot be delayed.
Nami decides that she will go to the station alone while Chopper searches for the missing Luffy and Zoro. Paulie, who has finally woken up, instantly shocks the other shipwrights by demanding they help them out. He explains to them that the Straw Hat Pirates were framed and that they saved him and Iceburg from the real assassins despite being the ones blamed. As for the missing Rob Lucci and Kaku, he lies to them and says that they both had to return to their home islands and will probably never be back. Although at first the others question this, he snaps at them to think about the Galley-La Company name and they all agree to believe what he had just told them as he agrees to show Nami to the station. Before leaving, he tells Iceburg that he did not want them to have the same feelings he had.
Chopper and a large fleet of shipwrights race through the city trying to find the four missing Straw Hat Pirates; Luffy, Zoro, Sanji and even Usopp. As time reaches twenty minutes before the destined leaving time, Paulie takes Nami through a short cut while Robin sits thinking in one couch of the train. In another wagon, Usopp and Franky are thrown, tied up, while Sanji hears that the train will be leaving earlier than expected! The CP9 begin to relax at the thought of their mission finally being over as Nami continues on her way.
While sitting with Tyrannosaurus, Iceburg wonders whether Franky is still okay as the search continues for Luffy and Zoro. Sanji, realizing that the others will not make it to the station in time, makes his way inside. Luffy is seen once again stuck between two buildings and Zoro is stuck in a chimney, neither able to move and both being located somewhere in the lower half of Water 7.

Chopper and the shipwrights continue the search for Luffy and Zoro while Rob Lucci confirms that they will leave early and that he has no regrets in leaving Water 7. As Sanji makes his way to the platform, a steam whistle sounds alerting both Nami and Paulie making them realize that it may easily leave early since there are no normal passengers and they continue on to make their way to Blue Station.
The train receives the signal to leave and Sanji watches as it prepares to move from the station. Just then, Nami finally arrives and makes her way towards the platform while onboard the train, Robin remembers when she became a member of the Straw Hat Pirates. Two of the workers on the platform notice Sanji standing right next to the train as it begins to pull away from the station.
While Chopper continues to search for Luffy and Zoro, Nami finally makes it to the platform however, she is too late and the train leaves and collapses to the floor as Paulie arrives. The two station workers notice the pair after complaining about someone who will be arrested at the other side and question why they are there. Paulie asks how Nami is as she continues to kneel on the ground shaking however, she burst out in anger yelling that she will follow them despite his claims that it is impossible.
Suddenly, Paulie picks up all three of them and runs up the stairs as a large wave comes crashing through the platform and managing to save them all. He notes that the velocity of the waves right now are abnormal however, he states that the Sea Train will manage to travel safely before the surge hits Water 7. Another Galley-La Worker arrives with a letter for Nami he found in the station square form Sanji informing her that he got on the Sea Train and that Usopp and Franky are also on board. He also left a portable Den Den Mushi which he will contact her with and with that, she is positive that they will also go to Enies Lobby.
On board the Sea Train, Sanji is seen outside complaining about being soaked and unable to smoke. Just then someone opens the door and spots him causing him to instantly kick him back into the coach filled with World Government Workers.

Sanji is shocked to see so many people riding in the last cart and seems not to care at the fact they are all pointing guns at him. After witnessing him kicking one of their members, they instantly realize he is no ordinary civilian and decide to tell Rob Lucci about him however, they are stopped by Jerry, a member of CP6. He begins to attack however, Sanji easily dodges them and he ends up attacking the others in the coach. Once he attempts to attack Sanji once again, he is knocked out easily by Sanji.
In the CP9's coach, Corgi explains that each coach has its own representative starting with the 7th car being Jerry. After that, there is T Bone in the 5th car, Wanze in the 4th and CP9's newcomer, Nero, in the 3rd. He explains that despite not expecting any attacks, they have enough strength to combat anything.
Back at Water 7, Nami finishes telling the news to Chopper and the pair note that they cannot leave until they find Luffy and Zoro. The shipwrights agree to help out and they begin their search of the area the pair flew in. As they race through the area, Paulie asks whether Iceburg had been informed and it is explained that two of them had gone back to tell him the news. The two workers from Blue Station run around the city looking for meat and sake which they were told to bring to her.
As they continue their search, the shipwrights notice that the ebbing of the water is abnormal. Kokoro who is watching this with Chimney and Gonbe notes that the amount of ebbing will allow you to know the size of the wave to come. Everyone looks and notices that the sea has receded a great deal almost to the point of it appearing dried up and Paulie checks that nobody was still in the backstreets as they will most likely not survive. As Nami arrives, Chimney notices something between two houses and after she notices the amount the ocean has receded, she notices Luffy is what Chimney spotted. At this, she makes a start towards the buildings as the others try to tell her to stop however, she ignores them and keeps going.

The others watch as Nami makes her way down the stairs and leaps into the backstreets determined to save Luffy. As they yell to her to come back, Chopper, who thought there was sea anemone coming out of a chimney, realizes that it is Zoro and makes his way towards him to the shock of the others. As the shipwrights are about to chase after them, they are stopped by Paulie who states that if they all go it would no longer be a rescue and that if someone has to help, it will be him. Chimney watches in amazement while Kokoro admits it is too late now as the wave is already close to the island.
Chopper finally reaches the chimney where Zoro is and Nami reaches as close a place to Luffy as she can and calls out to him. The wave continues to close in as she explains that Robin is going to die to prevent them from being attacked. Once finding this out, Luffy grows more determined while Zoro gets Chopper to hand his other katana over.
The others watch in horror as the Aqua Laguna finally arrives about to cover everything underneath it, including the four Straw Hat Pirates. Just then, Luffy manages to push apart the buildings, grabs Nami and make their way to a higher building. Zoro slices the chimney with
Sanjuroku Pound Ho just as Chopper uses Jumping Point to get the pair to higher ground. As the four make it back to the bridge, they appear safe however, the Aqua Laguna crushes the bridge with its force.

It appears at first that the four Straw Hat Pirates have been swallowed by the Aqua Laguna however, Paulie has managed to catch all four using his ropes and manages to pull them out of the water. As the bridge continues to be destroyed, the group make their way to Zousenjima and make it just in time as the others watch in shock at how high the wave had managed to reach. Paulie and Kokoro explain that the size of the wave was abnormal this year and if it was always that size, the city would be long gone.
After Nami explains what has happened, Luffy agrees that they should go after them and asks for a boat however, Paulie admits that it is impossible to sail in any boat as the waves would easily destroy it and that there is only one Sea Train, the Puffing Tom. When told to wait until morning, Nami concludes that that would be too late as that is where the Gates of Justice is. She explains to the others that Enies Lobby is a court island and usually when people are taken there that is enough evidence and that once they go through the Gates of Justice, they can only go to two places; Marine Headquarters or Impel Down.
Shocked by this, Paulie asks if they are truly ready to wage war on the World Government and the other shipwrights tell them to forget it however, Luffy declares that he will take a ship by force if he has to. As the four are about to go against the shipwrights, Kokoro stops them and tells them that Paulie is right however, if they still wish to go, she will start the Sea Train for them.

At Enies Lobby, Spandam gloats to his elephant, Funkfreed, at how easily he manages to capture Nico Robin and Cutty Flam, the two people capable of resurrecting Pluton. As the train continues towards Enies Lobby, Sanji defeats all the men in Cart Six which is also where Usopp and Franky are being held. It is also revealed that this is the communication cart with many Den Den Mushi which would allow them to contact Nami. Franky introduces himself to Sanji and comically gets kicked while Usopp prevents anything further from happening however, the next cart hears them.
Back in Water 7, Kokoro takes the remaining Straw Hat Pirates, excluding Nami, to the Brick Warehouse explaining that the other Sea Train may not function. As they make their way down to the room, they realize that the door is already open and enter to see the Rocketman, the second Sea Train. Iceburg exits the Rocketman explaining that he must have had the same idea and has prepared the train for them and explains that it is impossible to slow it down so it is not very safe.
Nami arrives with the two Blue Station workers carrying a sack filled with meat and sake to the delight of both Luffy and Zoro. As they prepare to leave, the Franky Family arrive and plead with them to allow their members to also go with them to save Franky. After explaining that they do not care about going against the World Government, Luffy agrees and they explain that all they need to do is latch onto the train.
As the train prepares to leave, the Franky Family leave to prepare while Paulie is seen hiding aboard the Rocketman. At this, the train leaves for Enies Lobby.

As the Rocketman flies through the air and lands into the ocean, the Franky Family follow revealing that they have a total of fifty members with them and connects their boat to the Sea Train. Kokoro easily find the tracks which she had monitored throughout the years and attempts to latch onto them however, she is shocked to see that Chimney and Gonbe are sitting at the front despite leaving them back at Water 7.
After the two are brought inside, Zoro comments on the appearance of the three Galley-La Company carpenters; Paulie, Peepley Lulu and Tilestone. Paulie reveals that after finding out the identity of the enemies who attempted to assassinate Iceburg, it had become personal whereas the other two simply followed him to find out who their enemy was and despite still not knowing, agree to fight too. After they and the Franky Family ask who the enemies are, Paulie reveals their identity and is greeted with looks of sheer shock.
At this, Luffy concludes that despite having problems with one and other in town, their enemies are now the same and that he will defeat the "Pigeon Guy". Zoro adds that until the ones who were taken are retrieved, they must work together. Chimney alerts them that the Aqua Laguna is straight ahead and Kokoro explains her job was only to get them onto the tracks as the Rocketman is a run away train. Just then, a representative of each group joins arms to symbolize that they are now allies and with this they have become strong and will save those who are on the other train. The Franky Family prepare to fire at the Aqua Laguna just as Nami's Den Den Mushi begins to ring.
Back on the Puffing Tom, the scary looking T Bone is revealed to be a caring swordsman who wishes keep a peaceful and gentle world. After covering up a marines bug bite using his own special cape, another enters and alerts him that the previous two carts have been completely defeated as well as that the two criminals are missing. At this, T Bone commands that a report should be given to the other carts and that emergency treatment should be given.
On the roof of one of the other carts, Sanji, Franky and Usopp are seen sitting as they send a report to Nami.

The Galley-La Members along with the Franky Family continue their attempts to stop the Aqua Laguna from hitting the Rocketman however nothing at all seems to be working. As they continue, Kokoro explains that although the rails will rise, they will not rise high enough to avoid the wave nor would they survive if they directly hit it. As Nami continues her phone call with Sanji, Luffy and Zoro climb up and attack the wave using Gomu Gomu no Sanbyaku Pound Cannon and they safely make it through the Aqua Laguna to the delight of the others.
As the pair enter the Rocketman, they are informed that Sanji is on the Den Den Mushi and after a conversation with them, Sanji decides to go after Robin. After hearing of what Robin had done for them, Franky decides to assist them in saving her as if she is caught, it puts him in danger too. However, Usopp tells the pair he will not help since this has nothing to do with him nor does he want to wage war upon the World Government. Despite having nowhere to go, Usopp leaves the pair where they are standing.
Meanwhile, in coach seven, T Bone continues to give aid to those who were injured by Sanji while Wanze and Nero are informed about the latest turn in events. One marine notices the window is open and upon looking on the roof, spots Sanji and Franky. However, before he can attack, he is hit by Metallic Star and as the pair look to see who it was, they notice a man who calls himself "Sogeking".

Sanji and Franky, knowing Sogeking's true identity, decide not to hurt his feelings, and the three make up a strategy to save Robin. Since they have already searched the first two coaches, Robin could possibly be in any one of the other five and they decide not to fight pointless battles.
Meanwhile on the Rocketman, the remaining Straw Hats have changed clothes and Nami explains to them that before leaving, Usopp perfected her Clima-Tact using Dials which gets both her and Luffy depressed because of the mention of Usopp.
Back aboard the Puffing Tom, Corgi informs the CP9 of the intruder and escaped criminals; they conclude that if anyone has sneaked aboard, it must have been before they departed the station and that they must calm down and search for them. The three make an appearance at the rear entrance of the seventh coach, where T Bone currently is, and the marines call for everyone to get there. T Bone slices the door open however, they have disappeared as the others arrive in the coach. T Bone, realizing that this is a trap, demands everyone to get to the other coaches however, it is too late for them as their coaches have been detached from the Puffing Tom and are left motionless on the tracks.
On the fifth coach, the three are attacked by World Government Workers whom they easily defeat and it is revealed to Sanji and Sogeking that Franky is a cyborg. It is also revealed that only the front of Franky is cyborg but his back is still normal since he could not reach that area. After the distraction of this, they decide to make their way to the next coach where they meet Wanze, who after a comical greeting, prepares for battle.

The CP9 are informed of the last two coaches being disconnected and that those in the fifth coach have been easily defeated. It is revealed that Nico Robin is in the first cart of the train and that the CP9 and Wanze are the only ones left to prevent her from being taken. They are also informed of the attackers appearances and conclude that the only thing they have to do is take both Franky and Nico Robin to Enies Lobby alive. They decide to focus on capturing Franky since saving Robin is impossible.
Meanwhile, on Coach Four, Wanze continues to prevent them from passing and Sanji decides to fight him while the other two progress to the next coach. He continues to prevent them from passing until Sanji attacks making him dodge and allowing the other two to pass. Wanze explains that Nero is in the next coach before being kicked by Sanji twelve times. Due to this, he uses Ramen Kenpo to create an armor around him.
Franky is greeted by Nero on the roof of the next coach and it is explained he cannot kill him since they need him alive. Franky lands the first hit after tricking Nero stating that he plays dirty since he is the underworld boss of his town.
In the first coach, Nico Robin hears a knock at the window and is shocked to see Sogeking there.

Sogeking, having entered the coach, explains to Robin that both Sanji and Franky are on the ship helping by diverting the attention of the others on the ship. He continues by informing her of the others who are also on their way to help save them. At this, Robin interrupts, telling him that she cannot leave and is informed that not only is Iceburg alive, he told them of her true reasons for departing the crew. As the pair begin to get their points across, they are interrupted by a knock at the door. Corgi enters the room and it is revealed that Sogeking is hiding under Robin's cloak and he instantly becomes suspicious but does not notice him.
In the fourth car, Sanji continues to fight Wanze who has instantly powered up since using his Ramen Suit. It is revealed that not only has he gotten more powerful, he can trap Sanji when he attacks him. At this, he decides to attack Wanze's face however, he uses another attack to prevent this explaining he has no weak spots at all and that he already knows Sanji's Fighting Style. However, Sanji begins to use chef knives explaining that since they are in a kitchen and the weapon he's up against is food, he could use his hands.
Meanwhile, Franky and Nero have begun their battle, both appearing to be on par with one and other. The pair are both suspicious of the others fighting and defending style as the Puffing Tom is revealed to be twenty minutes away from reaching Enies Lobby.

The Rocketman continues on its way towards Enies Lobby while those onboard attempt to pass the time by discussing what they had just witnessed. They are then interrupted by Luffy alerting them that there is a train up ahead however the others are instantly suspicious as it is way too soon for them to have caught up. It is revealed to be the last two cars of the Puffing Tom and since they cannot stop the train, Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Rocket to propel himself towards the train to check and see if any allies are onboard. Once he lands, he signals to the Rocketman that no allies are onboard, just Government officials. As Zambai proposes that he instantly dismantles the train cars as they pass to avoid crashing, Luffy calls for Zoro and tells him to cut the cars, as they are in the way.
Obliging, Zoro slices the cars in half using Nitoryu Iai: Rashomon, shocking everyone onboard the Rocketman and the unharmed passengers of the train cars, allowing them to easily pass by without crashing. Noticing defeated Sea Kings up ahead, Zoro then realizes there is someone stronger close by, putting on his bandanna. Up ahead, T Bone continues to make his way back towards the Puffing Tom however notices that there is a Sea Train behind him meaning something has happened to the cars he left behind. As he prepares to attack, he is easily defeated by Zoro using Santoryu: Gyuki: Yuzume and the Rocketman continues ahead.

Franky and Nero continue to battle upon the roof of the Puffing Tom. Neru uses Rankyaku: Sen, which Franky blocks with his Star Shield. Nero notes to himself that Franky cannot possibly be human. Franky fires a barrage of nails from his mouth, prompting Nero to dodge using Geppo. Noting that he has not mastered Shigan, Nero pulls out a couple of pistols as Franky attempts to move onto the next car. Franky reveals that he tricked Nero into rushing to attack him, turning around and uses Beans Left. Nero dodged the attack and appeared behind Franky, proclaiming that he figured him out, and fires his pistols at Franky's back, causing him pain and identifying Franky's back as his weakness. Franky attempts to use Ouch Finger but Nero dodges using Soru and uses Rankyaku, which Franky dodges. In order to mitigate his weakness, Franky decides to lay flat on his back. Asking Nero if he has heard of a centaur, Franky uses Franky Kentauros to comedically transform into a "reverse" Centaur.
Meanwhile in the kitchen, Sanji has destroyed both of the Ramen Suit's arms and as Wanze attempts to attack using his feet, the legs are also destroyed before the whole suit itself is cut into pieces. It is then that Sanji begins to continuously kick Wanze, while he is insulting Robin, to the point of completely altering his appearance. Sanji says that Wanze committed three crimes: calling himself a chef, wasting food, and speaking ill of his friend. Unhappy with his new appearance, Wanze goes to attack Sanji once again, however, he is sent flying into the second car where the CP9 are.

Franky is seen falling off the roof of the Puffing Tom injured by Nero who has taken advantage of his weakness. As he begins to mock Franky who is holding on to the side of the train, he is tricked and his arms and legs are locked down by Franky who smashes him through the roof of the third car. There, he meets with Sanji and the CP9 who are all now onto their feet.
Kaku explains that Nero is the new member of CP9 as he gets up onto his feet. At this, Rob Lucci gravely injures Nero explaining that he was too weak since he only knew four of the forms. Lucci continues to explain that it is worthless trying to save Robin and reveals that the reason she was given such a bounty at a young age was due to the fact she has the ability to wake one of the Ancient Weapons.
Angered by this, Sanji attacks Lucci just as Robin enters the room with Sogeking having defeated Corgi. Sanji happily questions her on how she is while Franky notes that she looks like the girl in the bounty. However, she throws Sogeking stating how her words appear meaningless to them. Just then, Sogeking declares to Franky to detach the third car as he throws a smoke star as he grabs Robin and the four make their escape.

Those on the Rocketman are shocked when Luffy cries out to return however, that was not what he meant, he was crying out about a frog standing upon the tracks. Everyone is shocked to see Yokozuna there as he prepares to stop the train and they begin to tell him to move.
Meanwhile, the four on the Puffing Tom appeared to have escape although they realize it shouldn't be so easy since they aren't as weak as that. Just then, Kalifa connects the cars using her whips and Blueno pulls the cars closer together again to the shock of the others. Sanji attempts to fight Blueno nearly breaking through Blueno's Tekkai. Just then, Robin attacks Sogeking telling them once again that this is her business, not theirs.
Kaku uses this chance to attack Sanji, knocking him back towards Usopp. Franky then stands between the Straw Hat Pirates and the CP9 giving them a chance to escape by shoving the front of the train into the second car despite this sacrificing his own chance to escape. He explains to the CP9 that he could not just let her continuously attempt to stay captured while they try to rescue her and he calls out that he has a plan of his own.
However, as Sanji attempts to persuade Robin to escape with them, Blueno uses his Devil Fruit ability to appear behind him and attacks him. The CP9 explain this to a shocked Franky as Sogeking is also attacked by Blueno. He explains to Robin that she cannot leave a pirate crew without the captain's agreement and that she should have faith in Luffy, shocking her.
As she makes her way back to the second car, Blueno explains that the Buster Call destroyed an entire island leaving her as the only survivor at the age of eight. It is explained that the horrible memories she had then have caused her to turn on her friends and escapes before Sanji can stop him.
As the Puffing Tom continues on with Robin and Franky captured, Enies Lobby comes into sight.

In the Puffing Tom, Robin informs the delighted Franky that Iceburg is still alive but he must keep quiet about this as the CP9 still believe him to be dead. At this, Franky discusses how the World Government now have both keys to awaken Pluton but states that he must get her back to the Straw Hat Pirates. Despite her refusal, he continues that it is she who is in danger and that she has not caused any crime as her existence is not a crime.
Meanwhile, the Franky Family have been separated from those on the Rocketman as the Sea Train was derailed thanks to Yokozuna. Up ahead, they notice disconnected cars and decide to slow down to discover whether it is friend or foe.
On the Rocketman, Luffy argues with Yokozuna for derailing the Rocketman while the others question whether it is still possible to reach Enies Lobby. Kokoro explains that they have an Eternal Pose to every station and Nami informs her she is a navigator and will help with directions. Kokoro calls Yokozuna and explains the situation to him including that Franky has been taken away just like Tom. After this, he agrees to help out and they continue on their way.
The Puffing Tom finally reaches the station at Enies Lobby as Franky comically bites the Marines trying to pull him off the train. They are shocked to see that Enies Lobby is an island in a hole in the ocean.
Inside Enies Lobby, Spandam exclaims that this will be the first time in five years since all the CP9 have been together but begins to scold the three other members of how they killed more people than they should have on their mission. It is learned that Fukurou had told them what they were planning to do angering Jabra while Kumadori attempts to commit suicide however, activates tekkai before managing to do so.
The Franky Family are seen to have picked up both Sanji and Sogeking as they continue to race towards Enies Lobby which is just ahead. At that moment, the Rocketman appears and as they realize Enies Lobby is in sight, they prepare for battle!

On the Rocketman, Usopp introduces himself as Sogeking, a friend of Usopp and both Luffy and Chopper believe this despite the others pointing out that it is obviously Usopp. They continue to watch as Luffy and Chopper continue to fall for this act. Sanji interrupts them and informs them of the knowledge that Blueno gave them just before he escaped.
After hearing this, Luffy becomes more determined to save her. Paulie reveals that he has been to Enies Lobby before and reveals that he drew a map to remember where everything was. He states that if Franky and/or Nico Robin reach the Gates of Justice, they will be unable to rescue them. They decide that the Galley-La Company and the Franky Family will charge in first to clear the gates, so the Straw Hat Pirates can avoid minor fights and can concentrate on the CP9.
As they observe the size of the gates, they realize that Luffy has charged in on his own despite hearing the plan. The Franky Family and Galley-La Company chase after him while the Marines notice him only as an intruder. However, they soon find out his identity and Spandam orders them to kill him. As he easily defeats the guards, the Franky Family and Galley-La Company make it over the gate as the Rocketman prepares to make its way in five minutes time.

Luffy continues to make his way to the front gate with ease using a new move where he controls the arms and legs of a Marine. When they think they have the better of him, he easily dodges their attacks and continues on his way right over the main gate and into the main island.
Spandam is shocked by this asking if he defeated Oimo and Kashii however, it is learned that they are still asleep and the Marines are told to wake the pair up. As the conversation finishes, the Franky Family and Galley-La Company invade the island easily defeating many Marines in the progress. As they reach the gates, they struggle to open them but finally do and progress through.
As they are about to reach the main gates, Oimo and Kashii appear and they are revealed to be two giants who work as the gate keepers. Meanwhile, Luffy is seen completely surrounded by over ten thousand men.

Oimo and Kashii prepare to attack the Franky Family to prevent them from breaking into the main island of Enies Lobby. The Kairiki Destroyers attempt to match the giants' strength. However, they are easily defeated by them despite being the strongest members of the Franky Family. Despite this, they are determined to open the gate and try their best to defeat the pair, however, their attempts fail. Just as it looks hopeless, Sodom and Gomorrah arrive and take down Kashii, with the assistance of Paulie, Zambai, Mozu and Kiwi.
Meanwhile, Spandam hears a damage report from one of the marines located somewhere on the island, but before he could give the proper report, he is knocked out. This causes Spandam to believe there have only been five casualties rather than five hundred. Immediately afterwards, he is told that the other members of CP9 have arrived.
Having already waited five minutes, those still on the Rocketman prepare to crash into Enies Lobby.

The CP9 are all reunited as Rob Lucci confirms that both Cutty Flam and Robin are in custody. Despite this, both Lucci and Jabra appear to show rivalry between one and other while both Kaku and Kumadori tell them to calm down and show affection towards their long seen friends. All of a sudden, the four returning CP9 attack Fukurou and it is revealed that he can count their strength in Doriki and he orders all the members in strength. Despite the reunion turning more into a comedy show, Spandam interrupts them and shows them a chest with two Devil Fruits. Nico Robin and Franky are then brought into the room and as Spandam insults Tom, Franky bites his head and Robin watches as he is then taken down by Kumadori.
While this is happening, it is seen that Spandam's Den Den Mushi has been left off the hook preventing him from finding out the trouble being caused on the island. Luffy continues towards the courthouse where the three headed judge, Baskerville, waits.

Since Spandam is not answering, Baskerville commands that one hundred law-guard-corps are to defeat those at the front gate. Oimo continues to guard the entrance, however, Mozu and Kiwi have managed to unlock the gate and only need someone to push it open. Before he can attack them however, Paulie ties his rope around him and with the help of Sodom and Gomorrah, causing him to spin round and round while the others open the gate and run through.
Outside, the defeated guards notice the Rocketman speeding towards the gate, with no sign of slowing down in the slightest. Yokozuna manages to smash the gate to an angle, causing the train to fly over the first gate. However, there appears to be no way to land safely.
Oimo finally appears to have fallen and the group made up of the Franky Family and Galley-La Company are seen standing upon his back. However, the Watchdog Unit of the Law appear and Paulie is stabbed by one, although luckily it is not fatal. Oimo gets back onto his feet only for the Rocketman to smash into his back. At first it appears unlikely any of them are okay, however all of them turn out to be okay. Zoro and Sanji take down a vast number of the enemy in seconds, when the Marines attack them.

The chapter starts with one of the World Government agents recognizing Zoro as one of Luffy's subordinates. Sanji laughs, saying Zoro is a subordinate. Zoro remarks that it is better than being nameless pirate A. Sanji gets angry, prompting Zoro to call him pirate B instead. Sanji retorts that if he got a bounty, it would be twice that of Zoro's. Sogeking tells them to stop fighting and Chopper tells him not to mind them. At that moment, an agent noticing Usopp and Chopper and identifying them as the criminals from the train. Government agents aim bazooka launchers at Rocketman. Sanji tells them not to as Nami is still inside. Sogeking is sent reeling during the commotion, causing his mask to fall off. Usopp quickly grabs his mask and puts it back on, quickly responding to Chopper that he is fine after the latter asked if he was ok.
The agents then cease fire as Kokoro, Gonbe, and Chimney are standing in front of them and they do not want to shoot civilians. They lie and say that the pirates forced them to take them to Enies Lobby. One of the Franky Family asks if there could be a hostage more drunk than Kokoro. After realizing they had almost shot hostages, a Marine comments on how shameless the Straw Hats are. One of them then notices something odd about the smoke still billowing from Rocketman's funnel. It is just hovering in the air rather than rising. It turns out to be a cloud made by Nami under cover of smoke. Sanji is happy to see Nami is safe. Nami comments on how amazing her new Clima-Tact is in comparison with the old one. She then uses the Thunderbolt Tempo, forcing her to jump out of the way. Nami then hits Usopp on the head, angry that the weapon hurts both friend and foe. Chopper was confused as to why Nami hit Sogeking, she said to call it a hunch. Sogeking said it was her fault for using it so recklessly and that "Usopp" never designed it to be used like that. He then remarks how powerful it is, as it took out several agents. Unfortunately, Zoro and Sanji were hit in the blast as well, and Zoro yells at Nami, saying she hit them too. Sanji said it reminded him of when they first met. Nami told Usopp to apologize, and Usopp said she should be the one to apologize. The Franky Family is surprised by Nami's power, calling her one of the Straw Hats' main fighters. Zoro asks where Luffy could be, Nami replies that she is not sure, as the island is rather large. While thinking of the best place to start, there is an explosion on a rooftop, and everyone in unison suggests starting there.
The scene changes to the center island of Enies Lobby, where Luffy is fighting hordes of Marines and government agents, leaving a trail of destruction in his wake. After using Gomu Gomu no Spear on an agent, he jumps into a tree. In the tree, Luffy comments on how annoying and unending the soldiers are. Luffy then notices that the soldiers are moving away, wondering if they were leaving. It turns out that half of the troops were going to the front gate to deal with the intruders there. Luffy gets excited, hearing that his friends have arrived, saying how things should be fun now. A Marine then fires a bazooka at the tree. Luffy escapes by running on the roof of a building, causing someone to tell the Marine he missed.
Back at the front gate, the Watchdog Unit of the Law had arrived. Nami and Usopp are scared, while Zoro, Sanji and Chopper stand their ground. Paulie then calls out to them, arriving on Sodom, yells for them to get on. Nami and Usopp are happy to be saved. Paulie then tells them to remember why they are there and that they are not where they should be. Sanji realizes he is right, as fighting everyone there would keep them there until sunset. Paulie throws ropes to all of them, telling them they are charging forward. Marines and agents move aside as the king bull charges through them. Gomorrah follows behind with the Franky Family. Atop Rocketman Kokoro cheers them on. The Hou no Banken Butai then try to board the king bulls. Paulie tells Sanji to hold the ropes and to give a message to Lucci, Kaku, and Kalifa: You're fired. Zoro smiles, saying of course they will. Paulie then dispatches the dogs with a Half Knot Air Drive. The agents are angry that the dogs were defeated, and sent more after them. Peepley Lulu, Paulie, and Tilestone jump off and dealt with them quite easily. An agent is shocked to see how easily the dogs were defeated. Paulie tells the Straw Hats and Franky Family to leave the agents to them.

An agent on the island hears an odd noise. A Marine tells him something is coming. The noise turns out to be Sodom and Gomorrah plowing through the foot soldiers. Another Marine recognizes them as the pirates who broke through the main gate. Sanji tells the king bulls to take them to Luffy.
In the island's administration tower, Spandam is talking to a tied up Franky, saying that he would not have had to suffer if he knew Franky was alive and in possession of the Pluton blueprints. He says it would have been too easy to capture him using the sins of his past. He also comments on how annoying Iceburg was. Spandam reveals how after Tom's death, Iceburg united the major shipyards of Water 7 under one name, allied with the World Government and became a World Government purveyor. He then became president of Galley-La Company and mayor of Water 7. His position made him indispensable to the point that not even CP9 could lay a hand on him. Franky then remembers talking to Iceburg about him agreeing to build government ships, saying he would never forgive him for doing it. Franky then understood why Iceburg allied with the World Government. Spandam comments on how smart Iceburg was, but that now the winds of change were blowing in his direction.
Then, just as he was about to start a reinforcement plan, Spandam received some good news from Aokiji, that Nico Robin was on her way to Water 7. Spandam goes on to say that after the receiving the information he had a cup of coffee and incorporated his access to the Buster Call into the plan. He then comments how the two keys to reviving the Ancient Weapons (Franky and Robin) were right in front of him. He then says that the power to take over any nation will soon be in his grasp. Robin then asks why Aokiji would trust Spandam with the Buster Call. Spandam, taken aback, punches Robin not to question him, calling her an insolent woman, and the abominable blood from the "Devil's Land", Ohara. He goes on to say that the value of Robin's existence would be nothing if it weren't for him, telling her to be thankful. He then tells Robin that she will suffer so much pain that she will wish for death countless times. He will beat her, use her, and cast her off into the sea, saying her existence is that sinful. He also says that the people who tried to take her back are there too, the Straw Hat Pirates. He calls Luffy garbage compared to the ten thousand Marines on the island, saying Luffy will be sent to Impel Down. Robin gets angry, saying that it was not part of the deal. She only agreed to cooperate with them so long as the Straw Hats could escape safely. Spandam called her desperate and then asked Lucci to recite the exact deal she had made with CP9. Lucci states "The six members of the Straw Hat crew, minus Robin, shall depart from Water 7 in peace". Spandam said that they left Water 7 to come there, meaning the contract was upheld. Robin was shocked that Spandam would violate their agreement using such a technicality. Franky says that there is nothing she can do against them, as they have botched sense of justice. Spandam kicks Franky out of anger, saying there was no point in keeping a promise with criminals in the first place and he and Robin give themselves too much credit. Spandam says they tricked the pirates and caught them, which was considered an acceptable method used by the Marines. Robin calls him a coward and Spandam says he will choose an acceptable demise for her, and that she and Franky can die together, as they are both powerless before justice.
Luffy is still plowing through the Marines and government agents. One soldier even comments to his commander how scary Luffy is. Luffy then sees a dead end, but that he would still get Robin out safely.
Back with CP9, Blueno asks Fukurou if the Straw Hat Pirates had shown up. Fukurou replies that they received word of it earlier and that Spandam was so distracted by the news that it was embarrassing but they only lost five people. Blueno then notices that the Den Den Mushi's transceiver is off the hook. Spandam orders for Robin to be chained up. He ordered for Franky to go to Impel Down and for Robin to go to the Marines Headquarters and to take them through the Gates of Justice as soon as the convoy was ready. He then tells the members of CP9 to go back to their rooms and rest. Spandam says CP9 will certainly be recognized for this and they would toast the turn of events on the ship. Rob Lucci then tells Spandam that is not in the mood for a toast and has no interest in status or authority. Lucci says that their brand of justice exists for the World Government and that the government recognizes Spandam as the leader of CP9 and it is their duty to complete their missions perfectly. However, Lucci goes on to say that he does not necessarily have to support Spandam's ideals. Spandam then asks Lucci what he wants. Lucci transforms into his animal-human hybrid form and answers blood, saying if he is there, even death is justifiable.
As Rob Lucci and the others leave to go to their rooms, Spandam thinks about how much Lucci gives him chills, and that this surely must be the government's only assassin group, and with individuals as promising as them, Spandam feels like he cannot lose to anyone.
In front of the courthouse, the soldiers report losing sight of Luffy. The guards are ordered to search for him. As it turns out, Luffy is on the roof of the drawbridge building, looking at the courthouse building, realizing there is no way to cross over to it. An Air Door opens in front of Luffy, and Blueno steps out. Luffy recognizes him as "the cow guy that was with the pidgeon guy". Blueno comments on how their intelligence division really messed up the information. Luffy asked how Blueno got there, saying his door was cool, and asking if he was a magician. Blueno remarks how a man breaking in all the way to the front steps of the government was unheard of. He then asks Luffy how long he plans on resisting. Luffy answers until the day he dies.

The chapter starts with Luffy asking Blueno if Robin was in the courthouse building behind him, and telling him to get out of his way. Blueno tells him that none of them noticed that what they are committing an offense on a global scale. Paulie and the Straw Hat Pirates are still plowing through the guards on their way to Luffy. Chopper tells the story of how Sodom and Gomorrah came to be part of the Franky Family. They were rescued from the stomach of a Sea King. The Franky Family told them "Since we're full now, we will not eat you guys". And the two king bulls have been loyal to the Franky Family ever since. Chopper translates for Sodom, who asks if it was ok that Sogeking did not travel with them. The rest of the crew then noticed that Sogeking was never on board to begin with. Someone thought he ran away.
Back at the entrance to the main island, the Galley-La Company are still fighting against the canine unit. Peepley Lulu and Tilestone seem to be having no trouble holding them off. Paulie remembers asking Luffy if he could beat CP9, which Luffy said he could. He also remembers Lucci and Nami, and says they can beat them. A soldier shouts to stop him, and Paulie yells at them to just try, and traps many of them with his Shrouds and Ratline Knot.
The scene switches back to Luffy and Blueno, with Luffy asking Blueno what he is talking about. Blueno explains that the World Government is composed of over one hundred seventy countries, and by breaking into Enies Lobby, Luffy revolted against all of those countries. The government will use its power to hunt down Luffy and his crew, and make them suffer cruel deaths. He calls the amount of people Luffy brought with him pitiful. Luffy tells him to get out of the way again. Blueno says that their fate is sealed regardless of whether or not he moves. Fighting would not help either as Luffy could not keep up with their Rokushiki techniques, as seen when they raided Iceburg's mansion. Luffy agreed, but said that somehow he would not lose this time.
Luffy launches a Gomu Gomu no Rifle and Blueno uses Tekkai, but Luffy's punch smashes through Blueno's Tekkai. Blueno is amazed by Luffy's increase in power since their fight in the mansion. Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Gatling and Blueno uses Soru. He dodges Luffy's initial attack, but Luffy was able to redirect his punch, connecting with Blueno's chin and sending him into a nearby pillar. Luffy tells him the government can do whatever they want, he just wants to get Robin back.
Back to the other Straw Hats, they are still charging in on the king bulls. The Straw Hats are arguing about how they cannot go back for Sogeking since he never rode with them. Zoro says they do not have anyone in their group who would die so easily. When they were nearing the courthouse, Sodom is seen through a crosshair, and shot almost immediately after, but not before he sensed it. Chopper realizes Sodom must be treated immediately. The Straw Hats were told by Zambai to jump from Sodom and onto Gomorrah, saying the mortar had hit his heart and he was finished. Sodom told them to go. The chapter ends with everyone riding ahead on Gomorrah.

Sogeking sticks his head out from Oimo's hair, realizing that he missed getting on the king bull, and worries about getting left behind. He then notices how incredibly powerful the shipwrights are. He thinks about running away, but snaps himself out of it, telling himself to be a man, how he disguised himself just so he could join the crew, and how Robin turned herself in to protect them. He devises a plan to disguise himself as a government agent and sneak past the crowd by blending in. He then realizes that there is a large amount of water forming around him. At first he thinks it is a flood, but it turns out to be Oimo crying. The giant told Sogeking he is mortified, he and Kashii having failed in their fiftieth year of work, calling himself a disgrace to Elbaf and apologizing to his bosses. Sogeking heard Elbaf and asked Oimo if he really came from the fabled island. Oimo at first was mad at Sogeking for eavesdropping, but then told him the story.
Oimo and Kashii were pirates until about one hundred years ago. They sailed all over the world. He then said that their two captains began a life or death duel on an island. All of the crew went home to wait for them but neither one returned. After fifty years, he and Kashii set out to go and retrieve their captains. However, before they could find them, the giants were captured by Marines who forced information out of them. The Marines then told them that their captains were being held in Impel Down. The World Government said the pirates would be released from prison if Oimo and Kashii worked as guards for Enies Lobby for one hundred years, and they all could return to Elbaf together. However, since they failed in their duty as guards, that could no longer happen. Oimo starts crying again, but Sogeking interrupts, saying the story sounds funny. At first Oimo thought Sogeking was insulting him, but Sogeking said he meant funny as in odd. Sogeking told him he had met the captains, who were none other than Dorry and Brogy, who were still fighting on Little Garden. At first Oimo does not believe it, but Sogeking offers to tell more about them such as their weapons and the way they laugh. Sogeking then tells Oimo that what the government told him was a lie.
In the Enies Lobby courthouse, someone is being told how the Straw Hat Pirates outmatched the Houbantai and the ten thousand guards. The person talking is a large three-headed man, who was berating a group of Marines and government agents. The soldiers try to explain themselves but the three-headed man tells them their words are useless. One of the heads yells that they are down to their last option and orders for "them" to be called in. The soldiers are shocked by this order. The third head reinforces order. The soldiers also tell the man they lost sight of Luffy. The man does not care, saying the time for justice has come, and orders the Just Eleven Jurymen to be released. A soldier tries to protest once more, saying the city will be destroyed.
Back on the main island, Gomorrah dodges a mortar fire. Zambai realizes that the central road they are on is bad as they are being ambushed from everywhere, and decides to change the route. Nami gets a call on the baby Den Den Mushi from Kokoro. She tells them that Paulie's map shows no road to the Tower of Justice from the courthouse. Sanji remembers seeing it, saying he had meant to ask about it. Kokoro explains that a lever must be pulled in each tower on either side of the drawbridge in order for them to cross. Chimney then tells Nami that she saw Luffy climb to the roof of the courthouse, and that there was some sort of fight going on. Nami thanked her, and Kokoro told her to keep the Den Den Mushi switched on, so they could know what is going on. After the transmission, Zambai told the Straw Hats to go the courthouse roof and meet up with Luffy, and the Franky Family would split into two groups and lower the drawbridge. Before they could reach the courthouse, Gomorrah is attacked by several hulking figures using iron balls attached to chains. Soldiers cheered as Gomorrah fell. The Straw Hats are soon surrounded and cut off from the courthouse.
In the Tower of Justice, Franky is telling Robin how lucky she is to have friends who would come to her rescue. He then pointed out that he was not sulking just because his friends weren't coming to save him.
Back at the main gate, Oimo and Kashii have woken up. The soldiers cheer and order them to attack, which worries the shipwrights since they do not have the strength to fight them. Instead, the giants attack the soldiers, angry that they had been lying to them for fifty years. Kashii said they would rampage until their anger was satisfied, and asks Sogeking to join them. Sogeking then says to give the signal to counterattack and to head to where their friends are.

In the Tower of Justice, as the members of CP9 are going back to their rooms, Spandam remembers something he wanted to give Kaku and Kalifa. He gave them each a Devil Fruit. Everyone gets excited over the Devil Fruit. Jabra panics, telling them not to bring the fruits close to him as Fukurou remarks that this is the first time he's seen one. Kaku asks Jabra what the matter is. Jabra explains that because he ate a Devil Fruit, that means there is a devil living inside his body and if he gets too close to another Devil Fruit, his devil and the devil in the fruit will start fighting and he will explode and die. Kaku was surprised, but Blueno cut in, saying it was nonsense, that an intelligence operative shouldn't be fooled by such a silly rumor. Blueno corrects him, saying that his body would explode, leaving no trace, only if he ate two Devil Fruit. Lucci adds that any greedy fool would die that way, and considering what one fruit does, it is easy to see what two could do. Jabra asks Spandam where he got the two fruits. Spandam simply replies that he has connections, and they should eat them for the future, and adds one last thing, he has no idea what kind of powers either of the fruits bestows upon the user.
In Lucci's room, Kaku says he has a hard time believing the Devil Fruits come from this world. He also said he felt a strange aura emanating from it, drawing him in like a gravitational force, and that he could not find either of the fruits in his picture encyclopedia. Kalifa replies that it is normal, going on to say that they can figure out the name of the fruit by the power it gives, but that power can be completely up to chance. She comments on how horrible life must be for someone who got some weird power, and they would lose the ability to swim. Lucci, having poured himself a drink, tells them that regardless of the type of power, how they use it is what matters, adding that there is a very low chance the fruit would weaken them, and that being a "hammer" is not much of an inconvenience, and that some people sail their whole lives looking for a single Devil Fruit. Jabra, hiding behind a doorway with Fukurou and Kumadori, tries to convince them not to eat it, saying nothing good can come from it and how his tasted horrible. Fukurou comments that Jabra just doesn't want Kaku to power up. Kumadori added, or possibly retorted, that envy and jealousy hurt a person's good name. Jabra makes his final argument, telling them they could sell them for hundreds, but eating them could mean a lifetime of problems. Kaku remarks that it could be fun as he bites into his banana-shaped Devil Fruit. Kalifa said she would gladly welcome the new power if the fruit turned out to be a winner, as she put a slice of her melon-shaped Devil Fruit into her mouth. Jabra is shocked beyond belief that they ate their fruits. Kaku and Kalifa both look slightly discomforted by their fruits. Fukurou and Kumadori ask if they feel anything different. Kaku and Kalifa both exclaim how disgusting their fruits taste. Jabra yells at them to do something, asking what kinds of power they got. Kalifa said she did not feel any different. Lucci tells them they will realize their powers in due time, and that he is looking forward to it. He also tells them to at least get the hang of their powers, as they might need to fight soon and how Blueno already went ahead.
The scene changes to the rooftop of the courthouse. Blueno tells Luffy he underestimated him while thinking how amazing it was that Luffy could keep up with his Soru. Luffy tells him not to underestimate him. Blueno launches himself at Luffy using Geppou, thinking how direct attacks will not hurt a rubberman. Luffy gets ready to attack but Blueno hits him with a Rankyaku, sending Luffy flying. He then starts attacking Luffy using Tekkai: Rin, which Luffy narrowly avoids. Blueno then chases after Luffy by moving his legs in a wheel-like fashion. Just as he is about to hit Luffy, he disappears using his Doa Doa no Mi ability, leaving a hole in the roof in the exact shape of his body if it were spread eagle. The whole then closed, leaving only the outline. This confused Luffy. Blueno then opens turns two of the roof's tiles into doors for him to stick his hands out of. He grabs Luffy's ankles and pulls one foot into each door, effectively trapping Luffy. When Blueno reemerged from the floor, Luffy asked him if he was a Devil Fruit user. Blueno responds that he has the power of the Doa Doa no Mi, meaning he can make a door anywhere and out of anything. He explained he could change anything into a door. To demonstrate this, he slaps Luffy in the head, causing the middle of his head to start spinning. This made Luffy unable to see anything properly as his eyes were spinning. Blueno then hit the defenseless Luffy with a Rankyaku, sending Luffy crashing into the side of the roof, destroying one of the blocks on the perimeter of the roof.
Zoro saw Blueno's attack, and asks Sanji, who had seen it too. Sanji reveals to everyone that Luffy is already fighting with CP9. Nami and Chopper look in disbelief, while Zambai seems annoyed that Luffy had already started fighting. However, due to Gomorrah being injured, and being surrounded by Marines and government agents. Zoro and Sanji decide their only option now is to fight their way through the crowd and make a path to the courthouse. The Franky Family agrees. However, before anyone can jump off completely, Chopper yells for them to stop. Everyone was surprised. Chopper simply tells them "Hold on tightly", saying it was a message from Gomorrah. As the king bull stands up, everyone is shocked that Gomorrah still has some fight left in him. Someone shouts the order to shoot Gomorrah down with mortar fire, but Gomorrah withstood it. The king bull then does something odd, he rams his head into a building. Zambai asks what Gomorrah is doing and if he has reached his limit. Chopper replies that the mortar fire got his retinas, and Gomorrah is now blind. As everyone tells Gomorrah to stop, Chopper relays what the king bull is saying. Gomorrah had promised Sodom that he would get everyone to the courthouse. Zambai then remembers when Sodom and Gomorrah first joined the Franky Family. They were in the belly of a sea king the Franky Family was eating. Since everyone was too full from the sea king to eat the king bulls, Franky suggested taking them home as emergency rations. He also remembered when they were beaten up by pirates, and how Franky Family fought the pirates for vengeance, and one time when the pair were dancing after being hurt. Gomorrah began running towards a dead end, their path being blocked by a building. Everyone yelled for Gomorrah to stop, saying the crash would kill him. Zoro asked Sanji if he saw a dead end, Sanji replied that he did not. With a shocked and confused Chopper looking on, Zoro and Sanji then reduced the building to large chunks of rubble, allowing Gomorrah to pass through safely. A voice was heard saying that the pirates had broken through the siege at D-Block, and had arrived at the courthouse door. The chapter ends with everyone congratulating Gomorrah as he collapses from exhaustion.

The chapter starts in the Tower of Justice, where a government agent is running up some stairs. Spandam is sitting in a chair in a large room, showing off the Golden Den Den Mushi to Funkfreed. He explains how it activates the Buster Call and that only a Marine with the rank of admiral or higher can have one. It is a precious species, and he said Aokiji gave it to him. He then gets ahead of himself, saying that if the Ancient Weapons were to be revived, he would be the one in charge of the Buster Call and would run the Marines. He points to the button on top of the snail's shell, saying one push of the button and an island gets destroyed. He then laughs at how authority can be used as a weapon. A government agent bursts in, holding a regular Den Den Mushi. Spandam is so startled he tells the agent he almost pushed the button by accident and that the agent should knock. The agent apologizes, telling Spandam he has an emergency call from the main island. Spandam wonders why the phone in the room did not ring, and realized that someone took it off the hook, much to his annoyance. He walks over to where Robin and Franky are chained up. He tells them about the emergency, that it likely is not anything serious, but invites them to make some predictions with him. He tells them that the Straw Hat Pirates have defeated five soldiers, and wondered aloud what happened to Luffy. He wonders how badly Oimo and Kashii trampled her friends. He said that they will listen to their fate. Franky calls him scum, Spandam told him to be quiet. Spandam calls the guard on the Den Den Mushi. The person on the other line seemed relieved to hear Spandam so they could finally report. Spandam tells him to calm down, and asked him to tell him about the Straw Hat Pirates, asking if they were killed. The agent responds that about sixty pirates invaded the island and that they have made it to the courthouse's front plaza, the last part of the island's mainland.
The scene changes to the plaza, with a Marine giving an order for all available troops to come to the Enies Lobby mainland. Zambai commends Gomorrah for getting them this far. Zoro and Sanji stood in front of the collapsed Gomorrah, with the Franky Family climbing down from the king bull and standing on the rubble. Zoro asks Sanji if he could see Luffy. The cook replies no. Nami, Zoro, Sanji, and Chopper stand in front of the door to the courthouse, sizing up the situation. There was no way for them to climb to the roof. Nami asks how many CP9 agents can be seen. Zoro tells her he can only see Blueno. Sanji said they probably would not be out in the open and on the roof, especially when they have Robin and Franky. Chopper says they have to hurry and catch up with Luffy and save their friends. A giant iron ball is thrown at the pirates, but is intercepted by Yokozuna. The Franky Family is amazed by Yokozuna's strength. One of them also recognizes the ball as the same type of ball that beat Gomorrah, and asks who owns it. The three men who attacked them suddenly start running away, much to Chopper's confusion. Zoro states that chasing fleeing enemies is a waste of time. Sanji knocks one of them out, saying he did it to confirm the type of enemy they are up against. The man that Sanji knocked out was very large, with a spiked belt and spiked shoulder pads. Someone asked if he was part of another special unit, like the canine unit. Sanji tells them to be careful, as there are probably more of them out there. Zambai tells them to hurry up as the guards are on their way. A Marine yells out to corner them, as they will not be able to open the heavy doors anyway. Zambai realizes that the doors will be an issue. He turns around, only to see to his stunned amazement that Zoro has already cut through the doors. Zoro yells at them for wasting time and that they are going ahead. Mozu and Kiwi stop Zambai, telling him that they will be splitting up now to pull the levers in each tower to lower the drawbridge. Zambai asks for only a few people to stay with him to run some interference inside the courthouse.
The scene changes back to Spandam, who is seen in stunned disbelief while sweating profusely. The Marine on the other end of the line goes on to tell him about the situation with the gatekeeper giants. Oimo and Kashii have joined the other side and are now fighting with the pirates. The giants are currently going on a rampage in the plaza. The soldier casualty count right now amounts to over two thousand, at least half of which were taken out by Luffy, who is currently missing in action. The Marines are searching for him right now. Spandam runs to the window as the voice tells him that this is the first time ever in the history of Enies Lobby that something this catastrophic took place. At the window, Spandam looks over the courthouse roof and sees Blueno, wondering why Blueno is there. Franky laughs and Spandam angrily exclaims what is happening on the island.

The chapter starts with Spandam calling Baskerville on the Den Den Mushi, demanding a full report of the situation. Right Baskerville responds that the situation is not necessarily about the plaza, but inside the building, saying the worst has occurred. The stone doors of the courthouse are sliced open and the pirates start rushing in. As they say this, they are looking at Marines and agents caught in a giant tornado caused by Zoro. Zoro says he does not see many people there, so they can proceed. Zoro and the others then notice Baskerville. Baskerville declares that they will momentarily render a verdict. Nami realizes that a trial has begun. Ignoring the judges as they start reciting the crimes, the Straw Hat Pirates and Franky Family notice that there are two staircases leading up. The agents are shocked that the pirates would ignore the trial. Zoro charges through the wall of soldiers with Enbima Yonezu Oni Giri. They then begin to move, with Zoro and Sanji taking out more soldiers as they go. Nami, Sanji and Chopper begin climbing one of the staircases. Sanji romantically tells Nami to follow him. Nami reminds him they are here for Robin. Sanji's romantic thoughts then turn to Robin. Somehow, Zoro begins running the wrong way. Nami is shocked, as she told him specifically to take the staircase, and could not see how Zoro could have possibly misinterpreted those directions. Zoro runs back and joins Nami on the correct stairs. Chopper and Sanji begin making fun of Zoro's bad sense of direction, with Chopper saying he will attempt to make some medicine for hopelessness. Two members of the Franky Family watch this and wonder if Zoro will be okay.
Baskerville, angry at being ignored, decides to just give everyone the death penalty, and smashes part of the stairs with his large sword. Zoro tells Nami and Chopper to keep going and that he would follow as soon as he dealt with Baskerville. Before either of them can attack, Baskerville is pulled down from the stairs by the Franky Family, saying that they will be his opponents, jokingly calling him Cerberus.
Up on the roof of the courthouse, Blueno watches as Luffy quickly pulls himself back up from the ledge. He realizes that the revolving door Blueno made on his face has finally "closed." Blueno tells Luffy that when a door opens, it must also close. He also compliments Luffy for avoiding his Rankyaku. Luffy replies saying that it is not that big of a deal, albeit unexpected, as Blueno vanishes. Blueno then suddenly launches a kick, but Luffy dodges it. Blueno then jumps up in the air and attacks Luffy with Shigan. Luffy dodges it again by doing a series of backflips. Blueno then uses Soru, and reappears behind Luffy to deliver a Tekkai "Sai", which the pirate also dodges. Luffy goes on the offensive with Gomu Gomu no Bullet, which Blueno counters with another Tekkai. The two then get into a high-speed fist fight, which ends with Blueno using Rankyaku which is sent off course by Luffy kicking Blueno in the leg, destroying more of the ramparts around the perimeter of the building. Blueno is amazed at how Luffy can match his speed perfectly and how he was able to redirect his Rankyaku, saying Luffy has unbelievable physical ability. Luffy then says that he is not good, saying he will not be any good if he stays the way he is. He explains that after he was defeated by Aokiji he began to think about what would happen if they encountered more people as strong as Aokiji. He realized he would have to become stronger in order to protect his friends. Luffy says he will have to be stronger than anyone, or else he would lose all of his friends. Blueno asks him what he will do. Luffy, getting in a straddling position, tells him that he thought of a way to fight with all of his strength. Pumping his legs, Luffy begins to emit steam from his body, and Blueno wonders what he is doing. Luffy tells him that Blueno will not be able to keep up with him anymore, as all of his attacks will have gone up a step. The chapter ends with Luffy introducing this new technique of his, Gear 2.

The chapter starts with Luffy beginning to unveil his new technique. Blueno is confused by what Luffy meant when he said his technique will evolve. Steam starts coming out of Luffy's body and Blueno asks him if he is trying to be a steam engine. Luffy surprises Blueno by saying he is glad to have met him here as he readies an attack. Blueno wonders what he was doing since saying the attack would only give him a chance to escape. He then challenges Luffy to try and hit him as he begins to use Soru. Luffy then launches a Gomu Gomu no Jet Pistol and hits Blueno right in the stomach, knocking him back several feet. Before he has time to do anything, Luffy hits him again, sending him skidding across the roof, and then comes down on him with a Gomu Gomu no Jet Stamp. Blueno realizes that the only explanation for Luffy's sudden bursts of speed and strength is that he somehow learned to use Soru. To avoid Luffy while he contemplates his next move, Blueno uses his Air Door technique to hide himself in another dimension. He cannot believe that Luffy figured out how to use Soru and how to use it with such ease. He then says that no one can beat a Rokushiki user in speed. He then comes up with a plan. If he can turn part of Luffy's body into a door, then he can take him out with a full power attack in an instant. Luffy says aloud that Blueno disappeared. Blueno then makes a door above and behind Luffy and is about to use an attack on Luffy, but Luffy suddenly gets behind him at the last second, causing Blueno to lose his balance. Luffy tells Blueno that he saw him kick ground more than ten times before disappearing by moving at high speed. He said he got the hang of it and is glad to know there is a way to move that fast. Luffy readies a Gomu Gomu no Jet Bazooka, and Blueno says he will take the attack by using Tekkai "Go". Blueno is knocked back but seems unfazed by the blow. Luffy is about to use another attack, but Blueno collapses from exhaustion. Luffy says he is tired, realizing his body still has not gotten used to his Gear 2 yet. He says he does not care about that right now. He realizes Blueno wasted a lot of his time.

Back on the main island, Oimo and Kashii are rampaging through the soldiers. The Galley-La Company are asking Usopp if the giants are really their allies now. Usopp tells them yes, and points out that the courthouse is just up ahead. At the courthouse plaza, Yokozuna and the Franky Family are holding off all of the Marines. Meanwhile, Mozu and Kiwi are each leading teams up the left and right bridge towers respectively, trying to reach the top to lower the drawbridge. As Mozu's team advances up the tower, Mozu stays back to hold off the soldiers pursuing them. In the court, more of the Franky Family are fighting Baskerville. In the upper level of the court, Sanji, Nami, Zoro, and Chopper are fighting their way up to the roof. They encounter two of the Just Eleven Jurymen. In the Tower of Justice, Spandam gives the order to take Robin and Franky to the Gates of Justice. Two agents tell him that the convoy departing from the gates is not ready. Spandam tells them they will just take them to the other side of the gate and wait. They must remove the pirates' main objective, and they will be out of reach once they go through the gate. He also orders for all CP9 agents to be gathered immediately. He then orders Robin and Franky to stand up and leave quickly on their trip to Hell and he would take his time cornering the pirates later.

At the front gate of the main island, Kokoro is following the invasion force's moves with great amusement. She tells Chimney that no one with common sense would ever think of touching the island. Regardless of whether or not they survive, the world would be shocked by something that had never happened before in the past hundreds of years. When the battle is over, Luffy's name will be known throughout the world. The chapter ends with Luffy standing on one of the ramparts of the courthouse, shouting to Robin that he is coming for her. Franky is glad to hear him, while Robin is surprised and Spandam is completely shocked.

On the tower, everyone is responding to Luffy's call to Robin. Luffy hears his stomach gurgling and pulls out the meat he stuffed in his pockets and eats it to restore his strength after fighting the Marines. Spandam notices Blueno is knocked out behind Luffy. Shocked that a Rokushiki expert and Devil Fruit user with a Douriki over 800 could be defeated by Luffy, Spandam panics a little and orders his men to gather Lucci and the others, as well as sends a message to Judge Baskerville not to let the Straw Hats lower the drawbridge or he'd lose all three of his heads.
With the attention drawn away from them, Franky tries to talk to Robin about the rescue effort in a bid to make her change her mind about her situation. Spandam orders the pair brought to him as he will head straight to the Gates of Justice. Attention is drawn as Franky's rear has expanded. Franky claims he senses his life is near its end, so he's chosen to self-destruct and he wants to take out some of his men with him. In a state of panic, Spandam begs him to stop so that he can live and the men all flee in a panic. Franky grabs Robin with his legs and lets go of the built up gas in a 'Coup de boo', which launches the pair away from Spandam and his men.
Franky breaks down the net surrounding the ledge preventing Luffy getting to them. He slightly overshoots the tower but once the chains holding him are broken he manages to pull him and Robin back in. Seeing Robin alive makes Luffy happy, he is surprised at seeing Franky also. As Luffy prepares to launch himself over to Robin, Robin tells him to stop, as she has already told him she refuses to go back to the Straw Hats. She tells Luffy she never asked them to rescue her and is not happy they are as she wants to die. Hearing her response makes Spandam laugh, before Franky can react, Kaku knocks him aside.
CP9 now gathers on the tower.

Elsewhere, Yokozuna and some of the Franky Family defend the doors into the courtyard in a bid to protect the others. Suddenly one of the members of the Franky Family with him is knocked away and attention is drawn as two of the Just Eleven Jurymen have now arrived on scene. In the courtyard right tower, more of the Jurymen attack Kiwi and the Franky Family members with her. In the right courtyard tower, Mozu and her comrades are also being attacked. In the courtroom, Zambai is still dealing with Judge Baskerville, who in turns claims all of his men are doomed as the Jurymen are pirates sentenced to death and so in the whole history of Enies Lobby they have never once declared anyone innocent.
In the upstairs of the courtroom, Zoro hears the noise elsewhere and decides to head up by all else means. Nami comes face to face with two of the Jurymen. She sends Chopper after them, but the ground suddenly collapses under the jurymen's feet.
Yokozuna is knocked aside outside the courtroom doors as the jurymen finally get the better of him after several blows. With the giant frog down, the Franky Family members start fighting. When all seems lost, back arrives in the form of the Galley-La members, Sogeking along with the giants Kashii and Oimo.
Back on the tower, Robin and Luffy talk. Other CP9 members question if they should go down there and beat the Straw Hat Pirates and have done with it. Spandam tells them "no" as he is enjoying hearing the sound of Robin rejecting Luffy's rescue attempts. To the shock of Spandam, Luffy's expression is anything but shock at Robin's response - Luffy is just picking his nose and being casual about it.
As he talks, a loud explosion happens behind him and Nami and Chopper reappear landing after the Jurymen fall behind her. Zoro joins them afterwards, apparently having been responsible for their sudden burst upwards. Lastly, Sanji appears, angry he was here after Zoro. Behind them, Sogeking appears flying through the air after being thrown by the giants. They beg Robin to return to them once more. Together they stand, waiting for her response.

Since the giants Kashii and Oimo have found out they were used, they are taking it personally. However, because they've guarded the gates for 50 years, the one thing they've become experts on is gate guarding and demonstrate it on the people in front of them. With their duty as handed to them by Sogeking is now clear before their eyes, the two will not back down now. Paulie gives orders to Tilestone and Peepley Lulu and all three of the Galley-La Company foremen to go off to aid Zambai and the Franky Family.
On the roof, Luffy gets an explanation as to what is going on while the crew stare at Robin waiting for her to speak. CP9 are delighted they now have permission to act without having to hold back. Franky wonders how much of a burden Robin carries. Spandam's only concern is his own life. He brags about the power he commands, the deadly assassins of CP9 and the Golden Den Den Mushi which can summon the Buster Call.
Robin recognizes the term "Buster Call" and Spandam brags about Ohara, Robin's hometown, disappearing 20 years ago from the map. Luffy remembers Robin's words upon her first joining, when she said she had nowhere to return to. Robin begs him not to push the button, to which end Spandam threatens to do just that. Robin has certain thoughts crossing her mind as she asks him if he truly knows what would happen if he pushed the button.
Robin flashbacks to the past, 20 years ago on Ohara Island. She sits by herself reading a book while some boys call her a monster and one throws a rock at her. When Robin throws it back, they run to their mother who in turn tells Robin off. Robin then sees a girl with her parents happily discussing their dinner plans. As she passes a window, she sees a parent and child embracing happily inside the building. A child points to her and calls her a monster; the child's mother hushes the child on.
She arrives home, but her aunt Roji is not there. She finds a note explaining her daughter is having her birthday today and they are off having a private celebration together. Robin is left with some bread, jam, and a list of chores. After completing her chores, Robin heads towards the Tree of Knowledge where a surprise is waiting for her. As she walks in, her mentor Professor Clover and the others at the Tree of Knowledge surprise here with a celebration and the news she passed her archaeology exam and now is a scholar.

Having passed her exam, Robin is given a badge signifying she is an archaeologist. Professor Clover explains the importance of Ohara and the Tree of Knowledge to her. However, a sharp change of attitude is displayed when Robin states she wanted to learn about the Void Century. Robin explained she wanted to join in their research and tried her hardest to study so she could. As a child, they had to forbid herself from becoming involved in the study, they know that they have come so far in their research that they cannot turn back and their punishment is beheading if they are found out, along with not wanting Robin to suffer the same fate.
As Robin runs away, another archaeologist states Robin is following in her mother, Olvia's path. The other day she was captured, her fate is already decided.
Robin finds a giant on the beach of Ohara. The giant wakes up and asks for water. Saul is then introduced. Saul asks if there is a town on the island, when Robin answers yes, he states that he wished he had landed on an abandoned island. Saul states he hurt his leg and might as well just sit there for a while, eventually building a raft to leave. He asks her if it's the first time she has seen a giant and she answers "yes", he ensures her is not like those barbaric giants of Elbaf and there are gentler giant races.
He then asks her not to tell anyone about him. When she answers too quickly, he states a child cannot hold that much responsibility but Robin states she is not interested in him anyway. Saul bursts out with "Dereshishishi" suddenly, which he later explains is his laugh. He introduces himself as Jaguar D. Saul. Robin asks him what the D stands for, but he only states those in his family carry it, and that he does not know much of the name.
On the fourth night after Saul drifted in, a figure is seen landing on Ohara. Roji calls for Robin, angry she is not around and that some of their shares of bread and jams are missing. After eating a few bites of the food Robin pinched from her aunt's house, Saul gives Robin the rest stating he ate anyway last night. Robin talks to him about the situation she is in, having just a mother who is not there for her and no friends. She then shows Saul her powers, Saul states she is a Devil Fruit user and in the Grand Line, he has seen many of them, in fact he is quite jealous of her powers. He encourages her to keep being happy and laughing.
Elsewhere in the West Blue, CP9 under the charge of Spandine receives a call from Marine Headquarters. Spandine tells them to ignore them as they just want a status report, angry he has been sent all the way to the West Blue.

On Ohara, Saul finishes his raft so he can leave. When he sees how sad Robin is about him leaving he decides to stay and add a flag.
They come to discuss where Saul will go, Saul says back to the sea. Robin says she would like to someday go there too, her mother who is studying archaeology somewhere will return to the island someday and Robin has been studying so she can leave with her. Robin then mentions the Void Century and speaks about the World Government banning people from studying it. She mentions the Poneglyphs, suddenly Saul realizes that what Robin is discussing and asks her if she knows her mother's name, Olvia.
Saul panics as he realizes it means he landed on Ohara and he did not know. Then Saul gives Robin the information that Ohara is currently the target of Marine Warships on their way to wipe out the scholars. Robin calls him a liar, but Saul insists it's true. Saul sends Robin to her local town to see if everything's okay, he even mentions her mother may have returned.
At the Tree of Knowledge, Olvia arrives to warn everyone. Olvia tells them the details of the ill-fated ship that left 6 years ago. The World Government has its sights set on the island. All 33 members of her team were killed leaving her as the soul remaining crewmember, the dead were examined and their belongings traced their origins back to Ohara. Olvia takes the blame from endangering them all, but Clover ensures her the only one taking a hard time is her. She begs everyone to leave, however Clover and the others have other ideas. Knowing this time they cannot stop the World Government from finding out their studies, Clover states they cannot abandon the treasures of Ohara. They come to the conclusion if they run they cannot protect the treasures on Ohara.
Her attention is then drawn to another thing, but she states she shouldn't go to see her daughter. A flashback to the day she left, she remembers how Robin cried at the idea of losing her mother, but she could not abandon her husband's desire to find the truth. Robin is then left in her brother's hands, but straight away his wife Roji shows signs of dislike for taking in another child. Later Robin turned up at the Tree of Knowledge and Clover allowed her in. Clover states Robin is a lot like her mother, Olvia replies once she finds Robin she must sever the ties with her least she be known as the daughter of a criminal.
As news of the arrival of a World Government ship is announced by a messenger, Olvia states they must not say they are related to her in any way. She takes her gun and runs out of the tree. On the coast, Spandine arrives giving orders to arrest anyone who is a scholar. In the town everyone is panicking at a woman running around with a gun, during the panic, Robin and Olvia pass each other by without knowing they are mother and daughter. Elsewhere on the island, Saul is upset by the situation. Elsewhere, Kuzan awakens to hear the news that Spandine has arrived.

With Saul's words still fresh in her ears, Robin arrives at the Tree of Knowledge asking if her mother Olvia had come here. Clover denies she came here. Robin repeats the words that Saul had said to her about warships heading to Ohara. Clover states that a "Government Ship" had indeed arrived, but not a warship. Clover then begs Robin to keep the fact that she is an archaeologist a secret as no one would expect someone as young as her to be one.
At that moment, Government Workers bust into the room and tell the scholars to stop working. Clover tells them to be careful as there are many treasured information stored here, however that does not concern the agents, who order the rest of the islanders that the scholars are demons who want the destruction of the world. The rest of the islanders are clueless as to what is going on, to them the scholars have always been their pride. They are given orders to go to the evacuation ship if they have nothing to do with the scholars, carrying proof of identification with them. Fearing for their lives, the residents run off to the west shore where the ship awaits.
Elsewhere, Spandine is shot by Olvia who defends the island, he rolls over believing he is done but it turns out Olvia just caught his sleeve. Spandine mocks the idea that the woman who denied being connected to Ohara would arrive on the very island by chance. Spandine remains confident that they will confirm the scholars are studying the Poneglyphs. Spandine states for years the World Government has been capturing scholars studying the Poneglyphs, trying to link them to Ohara. Now they plan to make an example out of Ohara to put off scholars studying the Poneglyphs.
Olvia then realizes that the warship coming are only on standby close to Ohara, Olvia is then struck by the two agents with Spandine.
At the Tree of Knowledge, the agents are knocking down bookcases, a scholar tries to prevent them damaging the books but he is hold back as they continue to look for a hidden room. Elsewhere Saul sights the approaching warships. Outside the Tree of Knowledge, the scholars sit awaiting their fate. The townsfolk sight them and continue their rush to escape. Clover pleas for Robin to run to the evacuation ship but she refuses because the others are never nice to her.
Attention turns to Spandine who now enters the scene with Olvia. He throws her at the others. Robin think how cruel Spandine is for treating a woman like that. As Clover calls out Robin's name, Olvia looks up to comment on how her daughter has grown. Suddenly there is a loud bang at the tree, at that moment, Spandine gets a call to confirm the Poneglyph has been found and Spandine informs the others their deaths have been sealed.
Robin cannot believe what she hears, she demands the truth from Clover. Spandine interrupts and states their goal is to awaken the Ancient Weapons. Clover demands that he be allowed to speak to the Five Elders directly.

The order is not given yet for the Marine warships to open fire on Ohara. The people of Ohara panic even more as they spot the closing warships. In the Tree of Knowledge, the agents find the Poneglyph, to their amazement it stands unscathed despite a bomb being let off around it. Elsewhere Saul rushes onwards, the people of Ohara rush around trying to avoid the giant's pathway.
The scholars hear their death sentence. Clover tells them to stop being so diplomatic. As Spandine orders Clover to be more polite, the Five Elders speaking continues to talk, Clover likewise also continues. Robin listens in on the conversation from afar, even though she remembers the danger it will leave her in. The Five Elders states the weapons will be revived if they continue on with their research, even if they do not intend it, Clover dismisses it stating that the past is something mankind must accept and take measures against it. He gets the reply that this is just a idealistic view, Clover continues on questions as to why they are denied the ability to take up idealistic ways.
Clover states that if the messages had been written on paper, the message would have been lost which is why the Poneglyphs were engraved instead. He speaks about the ancient people who wrote it must have been defeated by an enemy, who then went on to live in the history afterwards. The World Government came out after the Void Century ended and put forward the theory that the World Government is the enemy of the Great Kingdom and the Poneglyphs carry an inconvenient history. It is only through the reading of various documents and Poneglyphs that the scholars became aware of a country that no longer exists. When they knew they were about to be defeated, the people of the Ancient Kingdom engraved the Poneglyphs to let the world know what has happened.
Clover then states the reason for the World Government's banishment of Poneglyphs. While the Ancient Weapons are indeed powerful, the more dangerous power would be the truth of the Ancient Kingdom getting out. Before Clover could state the name of the kingdom and clear up the details, the order to shoot him is given and Clover is shot.
Elsewhere the people finally meet up at the ship leaving from Ohara. Saul continues to search for Robin. Robin seeing Clover shot rushes to his side, but Clover tells her she should have run to safety. Spandine meanwhile pushes the button on the Golden Den Den Mushi and summons the Buster Call. Attention is drawn to the Tree of Knowledge as it catches alight. Spandine is not bothered about killing them anymore, instead he decides to just leave. The scholars rush to the tree to save it from the fire.
As they go about their ways, Spandine orders Olvia to be taken with them. Instead of running away like everyone hoped she would, Robin asks crying to Olvia if she is her mother. Olvia refuses to accept she is, with all that had happened. After all that Robin had endured, she just wants to know if her mother abandoned her. Olvia denies having a child, leaving Spandine to think Robin is just a strange kid. Robin continues, Olvia is reduced to tears. Then Robin admits to Spandine's horror that she can read Poneglyphs.
At that moment, the Buster Call hits the island.

As the Buster Call continues to hit Ohara, an announcement echoes throughout the island, telling the people of the scholars' sins.
Spandine panics as a shot from the ships suddenly lands near him. The scholars notice the shots are hitting the Tree of Knowledge. Clover knows the World Government intended to take things to this level from the very beginning. One of the CP9 agents with him questions Spandine over Robin's claim to be an archaeologist, Spandine tells the man to watch her and make sure she does not leave. They leave Olvia behind fearing if they stay any longer they'll be caught up in the devastation around them and killed.
As Olvia sits on the ground crying, the other scholars go to work to try and protect the tree. Olvia hugs Robin and the two embrace and cry. Clover blames himself for the mess, stating had he known Robin knew how to read the Poneglyphs, he could have done more for her. Olvia states she is proud of Robin for studying hard. Clover begs Olvia and Robin to run away while they can, just then Saul walks in claiming he has been looking for her. Olvia demands to know why Saul is on the island, Saul puts it down to fate. Olvia begs him to take Robin away from the island, despite Robin begging for her to come with her because she does not want to be separated from her again.
Olvia enlightens Robin about what being a scholar is about. She states history has to be passed on. Ohara never wanted to reveal the history, just hear the voices of the past and pass it on. As Saul walks away, Robin continues to call for her mother, Olvia and Clover cry. On board one of the Buster Call ships, a soldier reports the sighting of Saul to Vice Admiral Kuzan.
In a flashback it is revealed how things came to be with Olvia and Saul. The crew of his ship open fire on Olvia's ship attacking it as though it was a ship of pirates. Saul does not understand why they had captured many ships in the past but had to make sure the people on board die. Reporting that one has survived, Olvia is dragged before Saul, she demands to know why they hurt her crew for no reason. Saul ask her if she was after the Ancient Weapons, Olvia angrily goes on about how people are afraid of the past without asking what it is about.
Later Saul is informed by Sengoku that he will be leading the Buster Call fleet against Ohara. Saul protests, demanding why every instance ends with the Marines killing people. Sengoku tells him to shut up and obey orders. Later Saul goes to where Olvia is kept and asks her to tell him about everything. The Marines then report Saul has fled with her, Sengoku states they must be killed as Saul knows about their mission. As they leave, Olvia states Saul will never be able to go back with the Marines, but Saul states it is fine as he would never be able to work for them with doubt on his chest. The flashback ends.
Back on Ohara, Saul runs holding Robin in his hands. He knows they are aiming for him personally, but keeps going. He tries to comfort Robin, telling her that her mother and Ohara are honorable. Just then Saul is hit in the face, the Marine who hit him apologizes, but he is corrected as Saul is the enemy now. Saul puts Robin down and goes off to the ship that fired on him. With Robin watching in horror, he lifts up the ship out of the water and smashes it.

Saul slams down the Marines' Buster Call ship and smashes it. The Marines panic over his sudden attack and question as to why he is here. On the island, the scholars panic over the cannon fire around them, they hurry knowing the island will not be around for much longer. They throw the books out the window into the lake in order to save them hoping the words of a thousand years are not lost for the future.
Saul asks Robin to run to the evacuation ship while she still can. Robin stares at the Tree of Knowledge where her mother Olvia is. As Robin approaches the ship, the other residents of the island spot her and immediately mock her for being a "Devil" as well as the criminal Olvia's daughter. They offer to fetch a rope, but when Robin forms a rope out of hands using her Hana Hana no Mi powers, they are frightened of her and leave her alone. Spandine finally finds Robin and orders the ship not to let her on board because she is a target of the attack.
Saul spots her running away. Saul runs towards CP9 to attack, but Kuzan interferes. Saul states Kuzan knows this is just to create an example of Ohara for the world to see but Kuzan states this is for the greater good of the world - the scholars broke the law. Kuzan states the rules of Justice change depending on where you stand.
Just then a blast is heard next to them. The evacuation ship has been hit and destroyed, much to Spandine's shock. Kuzan immediately knows Sakazuki was behind it. Sakazuki states on board his ship, if one of the scholars was on board the ship, everything would be for nothing if he was allowed to escape. Saul strikes Kuzan for the destruction of the ship, Kuzan replies he never wanted to take things this far. Saul flees taking Robin with him, but Kuzan freezes him on the spot.
Saul puts Robin down and tells her to keep running no matter what. Robin does not want to run and leave Saul as she believes there is no one left for her on the ocean. Saul gives her an inspiring speech about how there are people waiting to find her one day, the people who will always protect her. Saul then laughs and smiles as Robin runs off and he is engulfed by Kuzan's attack.
The other scholars stand in the Tree of Knowledge as it falls around them. Knowing it is the end for them, Clover reflects on humanity's choice. Olvia regrets leaving Robin with no final words for her daughter.
Elsewhere, Robin meets Kuzan. Kuzan states he intends to let her live to see what she becomes. Kuzan leaves her with a final warning that he is not her friend and if she amounts to nothing good, he will be the first to catch her. Robin states her mother is still on the island, but Kuzan replies no one could survive the inferno. Robin leaves, reflecting on the misery left behind in the wake of Ohara.

On the ruins of Ohara, some Marines inspect the damage done to the island. There are no survivors left, but the lake is full to the brim with books.
Elsewhere Spandine exams a poster and identifies the photograph as Robin for sure. She boarded a passenger ship far northeast of Ohara and escaped. Spandine recalls trying to chase after her when she escaped Ohara, but the helm suddenly froze up. Kuzan claims Saul must have allowed her to live as he died. Word is put around the world a eight year old girl called "Nico Robin", who can read the poneglyphs is wanted for 79,000,000 and posters flutter everywhere. A special Marine team is left in charge of finding her.
Robin returns to the old woman she came to stay with, only to find the old woman has betrayed her for the price on her head. Another couple that allow her to stay with them question the danger she is to them. When they read her bounty they find she has fled already. She stays with a pirate group, but when the Marines show up they search for her to hand her over in order to protect themselves. Robin is nowhere to be found.
Over the course of the years Robin is chased and chased. She is not allowed to even walk into a store to buy things and while she was on the run she found a Poneglyph and her search for the Poneglyphs continued. By the time she is 16, she has been on the run for 8 years and had gotten used to consult betrayals until finally she ends up finding Crocodile.
Robin ends her flashback. Robin continues to warn Spandam about the dangers of the Buster Call but he ignores them as silliness. Robin states she wishes to continue on with the Straw Hat Pirates but has a deadly enemy she cannot shake. Robin states she is afraid they will betray her with time. Spandam mocks Robin as a burden no one wants to have. He points to the flag of the World Government and mocks the Straw Hat Pirates. Just then Luffy tells Sogeking to hit the flag with a shot and he does so, burning it to a crisp.
To the absolute alarm of Enies Lobby the flag burns and they all gasp at what the Straw Hat Pirates have done. By burning the flag, they declared war on the World Government. Luffy screams out that it is fine and then tells Robin to say it, the others Straw Hats watch Robin and wait. Robin is upset by the words as Luffy is asking her to demand the one thing she never believed she would dare ask for. She calls out she wants to live and to be taken out to sea once again with them.
The bridge begins to lower, the Franky Family and Galley-La Company workers finally lower the bridge.

As the drawbridge lowers to provide access to the Tower of Justice, the Straw Hat Pirates yell that they will save Robin, and on the other side the members of CP9 laugh at the Straw Hats' bravery but are confident that they cannot be defeated. At the left and right towers in the Courthouse Plaza, Mozu, Lulu, Kiwi, and Tilestone celebrate their success in lowering the drawbridge. Meanwhile, Baskerville confronts the Galley-La Workers while ordering the Marines to destroy the drawbridge. Paulie and Zambai attack him, splitting him in three, but Baskerville reveals that he is actually three people with different bodies: the one on the left is Bas, the one on the right is Kerville, and the one in the middle is Princess. Baskerville then orders the mortars to be fired, and the mortars stop the drawbridge.
Baskerville yells at Spandam to flee from the Tower of Justice, and Spandam complies, dragging Robin away while ordering someone else to take Franky. Spandam gloated to the Straw Hats, saying he had CP9, Robin, and Franky, the latter of whom had the blueprints for the Pluton. However, Spandam runs into Franky, who much to his shock is holding out the blueprints to the Pluton, which he had kept in his body the entire time. Spandam tells Franky to give them to him, but Franky tells Robin that he knew she did not wish to abuse the Pluton as many believed, knowing that the mission of Tom and Iceburg was to keep the Pluton from falling into the wrong hands. Franky tells Spandam that if the blueprints fell into his hands, the world would fall into violence, although Spandam attempts to convince him that that would happen if Robin got them.

The Rocketman breaks through the wall of the Tower of Justice. Kokoro, Chimney and Gonbe are having fun, though Kokoro has memories about Tom. Stating Tom helped Roger, she will help Luffy. Spandam and the others see the Rocketman break in, which makes Spandam panic. Spandam then gives the order to destroy the Straw Hat Pirates, with the tower as their playground. Taking away Nico Robin, he orders Lucci to back him up. He takes his sword and starts moving.
Meanwhile, the Rocketman has stopped moving, and the Franky Family starts cheering when seeing this. The Straw Hat Pirates and their big brother have made it. Franky himself is not so cheery, concerned about the health of Kokoro, Chimney, and Gonbe, but they only have bloody noses, to the annoyance of Franky. Luffy stands up from the rubble and is motivated to run for Robin. Thanking Kokoro, he waits for his friends to join him. Then suddenly, they get up and are comically scolded by Franky.
While trying to head for the stairway, Luffy and the others are stopped by a member of CP9, Fukurou, who is hanging in the corner of two walls and the ceiling, at a safe distance. Luffy questioning his appearance, Fukurou welcomes the pirates at Enies Lobby. He demolishes Luffy's hope of getting Robin soon, as he tells everyone that Robin is taken by Lucci towards the Gates of Justice. Fukurou tells them about they need to find keys to Robin's handcuffs, needing to fight a CP9 member to get them, introducing the Seastone to Chopper. Being panicked by the fact it is a Seastone handcuff, Chopper starts to worry about Robin. Fukurou starts to provoke Luffy, to which a Gomu Gomu no Pistol follows in his direction. Fukurou quickly evaded and tells the Straw Hats that he may not even have the real key. While using Geppou to get higher, he tells them they should go find a CP9 member to fight with and take their keys. Then, Nami thinks of a smarter strategy, telling the Straw Hats to first get Nico Robin and then get the keys, although she's quickly interrupted by the guy in the air, telling her they'll throw the keys down the waterfall if they try. Provoking once more, he flees, leaving an aggravated Luffy behind. Zoro and Sogeking stop him from chasing Fukurou. Sanji and Nami make up a fighting plan, allowing Luffy to run ahead to fight Lucci.
Sanji tells them they need their keys to win, Zoro tells them that if they lose, they will lose time. They run up the staircase, leaving Kokoro, Chimney and Gonbe behind at the ruined Rocketman. Spandam, Lucci, and Robin are walking down a spiral staircase, as Spandam keeps mocking Robin. He tells her that no one is coming to save her and they do not even know the way to the Gate of Justice. Meanwhile, Luffy is already on his way to the tower, screaming for Robin to hold on, as he is on his way.
Before willing to fight, Franky makes his way to the kitchen, needing to restock his cola supply. Suddenly, Fukurou falls down from the ceiling and reintroduces himself, only for Franky to doubt his own power while low on cola. Sogeking is checking door to door, only to find Jabra sleeping with a key laying in front of him. Sogeking wonders if this is a super lucky chance.
Nami has made it to the basement, wondering why it looks like some underground prison. Suddenly, Kumadori makes his entrance, in a loud way. Nami wonders why he is so loud. Sanji asks himself which room to take. Walking further into the room, the door shuts and Sanji looks shocked. A female voice then asks him to stay for some tea. After Sanji turns around and sees Kalifa, he gladly accepts her offer.
Zoro enters a room. He sees Kaku, sitting in a chair in front of a fireplace. Kaku says Zoro already had drawn his swords, to which he replies they moan for blood.

The chapter starts with Luffy arriving in the room where Robin and Franky were being held. He realizes that they must have been there but are gone now. He then calls out for Robin. He then gets angry at Rob Lucci, but remembers they are headed to the Gates of Justice and runs off to find them.
Zoro is talking with Kaku, telling him to hand over his key before he gets killed. Kaku says that was a silly order, and tells Zoro he regrets being unable to see his real skill when they were in the Galley-La Company mansion, and his surprise that the pirates were able to make it so far. Zoro tells Kaku that he is several times stronger than when they last fought. Kaku believes him, saying he senses an ominous, beastly spirit within Zoro, and that he is a scary man. He stands up and goes on to say that his swordsmanship is the best in CP9. Zoro comments that he uses a Two Sword Style fighting style. Kaku uses his swords like crutches to lift himself off the ground and launch a Rankyaku attack on Zoro, which the swordsman redirects to either side of him. The waves destroy the shelves behind and on either side of Zoro. Kaku then contradicts Zoro by saying he is a Four Sword Style user, his legs being the other two swords. Zoro tells him it is no problem, as he remembers Kaku's entire body is a weapon.
Zoro then runs at Kaku and Kaku moves forward, intercepting the attack. The two then begin to match each other blow for blow. Zoro uses Nanajuni Pound Ho and Kaku uses Rankyaku "Hakurai", both attacks colliding and causing an explosion. Using the blast as a distraction, Kaku charges at Zoro using Soru. Zoro plants his sword, blocking Kaku's attack. Kaku then lets himself be repelled away by Zoro, moving across the room spinning but uninjured, staying on his feet. Zoro then charges at him, which Kaku dodges at the last second by falling on his back. Before hitting the floor, Kaku catches himself and turns his body around to land in a kneeling position. Kaku laughs and says the battle is fun. Zoro responds by saying he has no time for games. Kaku then jumps into the air and tells him to come and get him, launching a Rankyaku "Ran". Zoro wonders how he can control his attack so easily. Outside of the tower, it can be seen that a part of the wall was blasted away. Zoro is then seen catching his breath, having dodged every attack, asking Kaku if he is trying to make him look silly. Kaku contradicts him again, saying he is actually impressed. Kaku then tells Zoro that if he is in a hurry, he will show him his new ability.
The scene changes to Sogeking, having just entered Jabra's room. His first observation about the room is that it has too many trees, making it feel like he is outside. He then snaps himself back to the task at hand, getting the key to Robin's handcuffs. Jabra is napping with his key right in front of him. Sogeking begins to tip-toe toward the key, figuring everything should be fine as long as he can get the key quietly and run away quietly. He considers himself lucky for being able to avoid fighting. He then notices a rooster walking by Jabra. Sogeking wonders why such a loud bird would appear in front of him in this situation. Sogeking and the rooster stare at each other with mounting tension, Sogeking begging the rooster in his mind not to crow. The rooster then lets out a single, quiet chirp, startling Sogeking so much that he could not help but yell that roosters do not crow like that. Jabra wakes up from his nap at that exact moment, noticing how a pirate had finally arrived. Sogeking cursed the rooster in his thoughts. Jabra picks up his key, asking if he should now cause havoc for Sogeking. Jabra then punches Sogeking across the room, making Sogeking comment on how strong he is. Jabra then recognizes Sogeking as the one who shot the World Government flag, saying his sniping skills must be the real thing. Sogeking is still on the ground, stunned by how strong Jabra was just after waking up. Jabra apologizes for attacking Sogeking all of a sudden, saying it must have hurt. He tells Sogeking not to worry as tormenting his opponent wasn't his style while transforming into a human wolf hybrid. Sogeking asks if he ate a Devil Fruit, and Jabra tells him he ate Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Wolf. He tells Sogeking he will simply slit his throat and that would be all, asking if Sogeking agrees that he do not have to suffer before he dies. Jabra begins to attack Sogeking but realizes he does not look up to fighting him and he does not look that strong. Sogeking tells he is up to it no matter what as he came to rescue Robin. Little pieces of the ceiling start falling and Sogeking realizes that the floor above them is collapsing.
Zoro and a huge giraffe fall through the ceiling. The giraffe turns out to be Kaku, shouting that he meant to transform into the giraffe-human hybrid form but accidentally transformed into complete animal form. Sogeking is shocked and confused to see a huge talking giraffe, but Jabra laughs and tells Kaku that he loves his ability. Zoro sees Jabra and asks if they are in a zoo.

The chapter starts with Jabra laughing at Kaku's Devil Fruit, the Ushi Ushi Fruit, Model: Giraffe. He tells him he will now be a giraffe man for the rest of his life. Kaku says he does not care and that he likes it. Zoro remembers that Rob Lucci is able to become a leopard, and is surprised that there are three people in CP9 who can transform into animals. Sogeking is hiding behind some rubble panting. He says he did not know that Kaku was also a Zoan user, saying he got the worst two to fight. He is thankful that Zoro fell through the floor along with Kaku, as now Sogeking can make it look like they are engaging in a two on two battle when really Zoro is doing all the work. He then spots something on a wall. It is an open safe containing several pairs of handcuffs. Zoro gets bored of listening to Kaku and Jabra arguing, and asks Kaku when he will be done. Zoro asks Kaku he could just slice him up the way he is now.
This makes Kaku angry, and he tells Zoro not to underestimate a giraffe's destructive power as he transforms into his animal-human hybrid form. Zoro states that the new form makes him look even more ridiculous. This angers Kaku even more. Jabra cannot stop laughing at Kaku's new form. Zoro wonders about what he said that was so thoughtless. He tells himself not to lose focus, or his swords will lose their sharpness. Jabra is still laughing uncontrollably and Kaku asks him how much longer he will be.
All of a sudden, a pair of handcuffs goes flying and one of the cuffs gets locked around Zoro's right arm. Sogeking quickly apologizes and Zoro asks him what he is doing. Sogeking explains that he thinks those are the Seastone handcuffs they had heard about earlier. He thought that Kaku and Jabra would be weakened if they wore them. Zoro then asks why Sogeking put the cuffs on him. Sogeking then says that Kaku's face looked so funny that his hand slipped. Kaku tells them he has had enough of their teasing. He then uses Rankyaku: Amanedachi. He begins to spin his elongated neck, creating a whirlwind-like effect. Zoro yells for Sogeking to get down on the ground as they get pushed back. When the attack stops, Zoro realizes that the centrifugal force created by the power from Kaku's huge giraffe body has made his attacks sharper with longer range. Sogeking is surprised that nothing was broken by the attack. Zoro tells him to look at the ceiling, and Sogeking is surprised to see the sky. The Tower of Justice had sustained a clean cut from Kaku's attack, making the top portion shift to the right.
Jabra chastises Kaku for showing emotion during a fight. Kaku tells him to be quiet, saying that he actually loves giraffes. Zoro says that it still will not be a threat to them. He then hears the sound of something clicking into place. The open ring of the cuffs on Zoro's right hand had just closed around Sogeking's left hand. Zoro yells at him, asking what he is doing. Sogeking says it is not his fault, as Zoro had rushed into him. Zoro argues that he only did that because Sogeking was spacing out, telling him to get the cuffs off them. Sogeking tells him he does not have the key, much to Zoro's anger.
Kaku asks Jabra what the pirates are doing. Sogeking says that they are now in the same position as Nico Robin. One of the members of CP9 has their key and they must fight them to get it. Jabra notes that his and Kaku's targets are now connected. Kaku tells Jabra to sit back and relax, as he can take care of both of them. Jabra gets angry, saying Kaku is stealing his prey. Kaku then asks if he would rather fight together, to which Jabra responds he would not. Kaku then tells Zoro and Sogeking to tell them the number on thief handcuffs. Kaku explains that each pair of handcuffs and their corresponding keys have matching numbers.
If the number on their cuffs matches either Kaku's or Jabra's key, then they will set them free right away. Sogeking tells them their number is 2. Kaku and Jabra look at their key. Neither of the CP9 members have the matching key. Kaku remarks how disappointing it was. Zoro is angry, as they had gotten him hopeful for nothing. Sogeking realizes that means another CP9 member has it. Jabra tells Kaku that the first to kill the pirates is the winner, and Kaku agrees. Zoro yells that they have to do something as Sogeking screams in terror.
Elsewhere, Chopper arrives at a staircase that is split apart in the middle. He says he is not surprised that something like that would happen because of the blast earlier. He then wonders if the building is going to be alright. He hears a scream coming from a nearby room and rushes over to see who it is. He sees Zoro and Sogeking run by while being chased by a wolf and a giraffe. Chopper remarks how fun it looks. Zoro then shows him the handcuffs and tells him to find a key with a 2 on it. As he is running away to begin searching for the key, Chopper has a flashback to what Zoro told him. He realizes then that the cuffs and keys must match by number also. Zoro told Chopper he is their only hope. Chopper reasons that the one most likely to have gotten a key by now would be Sanji, and he runs off to look for him.
Outside the tower, Luffy is looking towards the Gates of Justice, wondering how to get there. At first he thought there would be a normal bridge for a path. He then sees two giant whirlpools and wonders if a boat could even get across to the gates. He realizes that he does not have time, so he will have to try something to get to the gates. He then wonders if Robin was there already. Back inside the tower, Nami is on floor 0 and having a tough time battling Kumadori. She is restrained by his hair and is having trouble getting out of it. She is able to break away just in time, though, by taking off her jacket. Kumadori's polearm goes through her jacket moments after she escaped, and would have impaled her through the heart. She fearfully says she is no match for him. Near the tower's kitchen, Franky is fighting against Fukurou. Fukurou asks Franky if he is a normal human as his punches are abnormally strong.
Franky tells him his fists are made of real steel. In Kalifa's room, Sanji yells at her saying this is not the time to have tea. He says he almost fell into her love trap. Kalifa simply responds by telling him he has had three cups of tea already. Sanji tells her to be quiet, saying he will not fall into her trap anymore. Sanji then says that he remembers that CP9 insulted Robin on the Sea Train and asks for the key. Kalifa says it is too bad, as she sees he is in a rush and tells him to take the key. When Sanji asks where it is, Kalifa answers that by wondering aloud where on her body she hid the key. She then tells Sanji he will have to look for it. The chef is overjoyed to hear this. While he is distracted, Kalifa takes the opportunity to send him shooting across the room with a kick. She then asks him if it was a bad sign. The chapter ends with a stunned Sanji realizing how stupid he was by falling for Kalifa's trick.

The chapter starts with Sanji sitting on the floor after just having been kicked by Kalifa. She tells him that Nico Robin is getting closer to the Gates of Justice, or as she calls it, "approaching Hell". Sanji tells her she is aware of that, and if Kalifa tries to get in his way, he will not consider the fact that she is a woman. Kalifa tells him that yelling will not make the key appear any more easily. She also tells him that he does not have to think of her as a woman, as she does not wish to live that leniently. As long as she has the extermination order, she will kill him. Sanji lights a cigarette, saying he will not give her his life, and that all he wants is the key to Robin's handcuffs. Kalifa then suggest that they bring tea time to an end. She uses Soru, which Sanji blocks. He then comments on how her strength is superhuman as their legs collide with each other. Sanji then proceeds to kick Kalifa square in the face, but stopping right before he makes contact.
Sanji says that that was one blow for him. Kalifa then roundhouse kicks him point blank in the crotch. After momentarily writhing on the floor in pain, Sanji calls her a fiend. As he is getting back up, Kalifa tries to use Geppo, which he dodges by rolling backward. Sanji then attacks her with a flying kick which Kalifa dodges by falling to the ground. However, Sanji was able to redirect his kick and pin her to the floor. Kalifa remarks how fast he is. He yells that he just crushed her with his leg, saying that she lost and should give him the key. Before he could finish the last sentence, Kalifa uses Shigan directly on Sanji's leg, causing it to buckle. She escapes and quickly uses Rankyaku, knocking Sanji to the ground. She tells him he may be a pirate, but he is also a coward. Sanji tells her to shut up and tries to kick her, but she dodges using Soru.
Kalifa then reappears, grabbing Sanji by the tie and restraining the leg he just tried to kick her with so he cannot escape. Kalifa tells Sanji she has had enough of his empty threats. She tells him they are about to do something fun, where he will die if he does not counterattack.
Elsewhere, Nami and Kumadori have moved their battle to the first floor. Nami is looking around a corner, wondering why Kumadori is not coming after her. She is relieved, unaware that Kumadori is directly behind her, pressed against the wall. She decides to just run. Before she can, however, Kumadori wraps his hair around her left ankle using Life Return. He then proceeds to bind her other leg, as well as her neck and both of her arms. Kumadori asks if he should kill her by stabbing her or by strangling her. He then recites a poem about killing her. He then tells her to say hi to his mother in the afterlife. He is about to kill her using Haru Gin Jo, but Chopper suddenly intervenes and stops him with Kokutei Roseo, having eaten a Rumble Ball and activated his Arm Point. Nami is released and falls to the ground. Chopper asks her if she is okay, and Nami thanks him for saving her.
Chopper then asks her if Kumadori is a Devil Fruit user. Nami said that she was not sure. All she knew was that he moved his hair like an octopus and that she could not counterattack at all. Nami tells Chopper that now is their chance to leave. Chopper argues if they do then they will not get the key. Nami then shows him the key, saying she had stolen it without him noticing, but just could not escape from him. She asks how the others are doing. Chopper instead asks her the number on the key. She tells him 3, much to his dismay. Nami then asks what the number meant.
While they are running, part of the ceiling falls in front of them, almost crushing them. They see a beaten Sanji, whose body has become completely round and shiny. Chopper compares Sanji to a glass doll, saying he is seriously injured. Nami realizes that it must have been a Devil Fruit user in CP9, shocked that Sanji was defeated. Sanji apologizes to Nami, saying he could not get the key. Nami then looks up and sees Kalifa looking down at them from the hole in the ceiling. Chopper tells Sanji he will give him first aid. Nami asks Sanji if he really fought Kalifa seriously. Nami says his opponent was the woman looking through the hole. Nami asks him if he means to keep his code, even if it kills him. Sanji tells her it is not as if he wants to die, but he was brought up being taught never to kick a woman, even if it kills him. Nami call him an idiot, hitting him with her Clima-Tact, much to Chopper's shock.
Nami tells him that if running away is against his code, then he shouldn't bother. She then tells him to leave Kalifa to her, saying she will not get away with it. She also says that Sanji deserves some credit for keeping his code, though Sanji thought Nami said he deserved some loving for it. Chopper quickly contradicts him. Nami looks up at Kalifa, saying she will not be as sweet as Sanji. Kalifa says she would not be sweet either, and they might get along well. As Nami runs up the stairs, Kumadori shouts that he will not let her get away. Chopper tells her to leave Kumadori to him, and holds him back with a Kokutei Cross.
The scene changes to Luffy, who had just tried to cross the ocean to the Gates of Justice on a rowboat. Chimney and Gonbe rescued him and pulled him ashore. Luffy tearful told them that Robin was being taken to the gate and he had to save her before she went through it. Chimney and Gonbe excitedly tell him that they found a way to get to the gate. They took Luffy to an underground passageway beneath the ocean. Chimney explains that she saw one of Lucci's subordinates laughing so she followed him and found the passageway. She thought that Spandam was Lucci's subordinate. They stop at a large steel door with the World Government insignia on it.
Chimney remembered Spandam touching something on a control panel, but realized they needed a key. Luffy tells them to stand back. Chimney asks what he is going to do. Luffy does not answer but instead bites his thumb and uses a new attack, Gear 3, punching a hole through the door. As the dust begins to clear, Luffy says they are going. The chapter ends with Chimney and Gonbe shocked to see a very small Luffy heading into the tunnel, asking him why he shrank.

The chapter starts with Luffy, Chimney, and Gonbe heading down an underwater passageway leading to the Gates of Justice. Chimney remarks how fun Luffy is. As Luffy is running, the shrinking effect of Luffy's Gear 3's attack begins to wear off and he grows back to his normal size. He calls for Nico Robin to wait for him, saying he will send Rob Lucci flying. Further into the tunnel, Spandam tells Lucci he hears a noise, wondering if it is his imagination. Lucci suggests that it might be the pirates breaking through the door. Spandam is astounded, saying that the door is solid steel, and that there was no way they could have found the door to begin with. Lucci tells him he remembers a small girl following them earlier, so she probably told them. When Spandam asks Lucci why he did not kill her, he smugly replies that he never received an order to do so. Spandam is annoyed, telling Lucci he should decide those things on his own. He then asks if that means someone is following them.
Back in the Tower of Justice, Franky is fighting Fukurou in the corridor outside the kitchen. Franky comments on how Fukurou is quick to run away. Fukurou tells him there is no reason for him to take Franky's punches. Franky uses Franky Triangle Jacker and Fukurou dodges it. Fukurou then punches Franky, which he blocks. He then grabs Fukurou by the mouth and throws him over his head, sending him crashing into the floor. Franky uses Weapons Left, and then notice that his cola supply was running low. He runs towards the door to the kitchen only to be intercepted by Fukurou. Franky comments on how Fukurou has amazing escaping skills. Fukurou tells him that really made him mad. Fukurou tells him to take his punch first.
He then uses Super Heavy "Shigan" Speed Punch: Jugon. The punch hits Franky squarely in the face, but he stays standing. Franky tells him that that punch will not do anything to him as he puts on a glove. He then uses Strong Hammer, hitting Fukurou cleanly in the jaw as he starts to use Tekkai. Fukurou tells Franky his punch was weak, chidingly calling it "wussy-pussy", and hits him with another Jugon. Franky retorts that Fukurou's punch is "wimpy-limpy". Franky also calls Fukurou's punch "flimsy-clumsy". Fukurou also calls Franky's punch "weaky-geeky" and "lazy-pansy panty", causing Franky to wonder why he added panty as they punch each other repeatedly. Fukurou tells Franky that "panty" is good enough for him. Franky grabs Fukurou's face as they crash through the walls of the kitchen.
They land with Franky on top of Fukurou, grabbing him by the lower lip. Franky is relieved to find himself in the kitchen, and even more relieved to see a huge refrigerator right next to him. As he is looking at the fridge, the wall on the left side starts to break, and Chopper and Kumadori burst through the wall. Chopper is angry at himself for using the Rumble Ball too soon. Franky thinks that Chopper is a Devil Fruit user that can transform into a gorilla. Fukurou then tries to attack Chopper, but Chopper pulls the giant refrigerator door at the last instant, causing Fukurou to collide with the door. Chopper then slams the door shut, pinning Kumadori between the door and the edge of the fridge. Chopper is happy to see the door has a lock. Fukurou is stunned to see Kumadori trapped in the door. Chopper is overjoyed to have gotten Kumadori locked up. Franky then tells Chopper to wait a moment, calling him gorilla, saying he has to get something from the fridge.
Chopper then becomes aware of Franky and Fukurou's presence in the room. He then gets angry at Franky for calling him a gorilla, leading Franky to comment on how slow Chopper is. Chopper tells Franky he is still angry at him for what he did to Usopp. Franky draws his attention back to the task at hand, saving Robin. Franky tells Chopper to get him three bottles of cola and give them to him so he can power up. He tells Chopper he can finish off the two CP9 agents easily and get their keys. Chopper asks how he could become stronger with cola. Fukurou asks how much longer they will be arguing. He then hits Franky with his ultimate Jugon technique: Fukuroudataki. Franky weakly tries to punch him, but Fukurou hits him again. Chopper realizes that Franky is on their side now, and figures out he can open and close the fridge fast enough to get the cola but without freeing Kumadori. He does so, and tosses Franky the cola. Franky feels rejuvenated and his hair takes the form of a tomato. He tries to hit Fukurou with a Vegetable Punch, but is easily knocked away by another Jugon.
Franky tosses the bottles Chopper gave him back at the reindeer, furious that he was given vegetable juice. A terrified Chopper tells him he thought Franky was just thirsty. Franky tells him to forget the healthy drinks and get him some cola. Chopper tosses him some more bottles, and Franky loads them into his fuel chamber, his hair this time taking a more wavy shape. He then sits in a chair, holding a gardening hoe, saying that he is done tilling the soil, and that they should all sit down and have some tea, which would give them power. He then realizes that Chopper gave him tea instead of cola this time and tosses the bottles back at him. Chopper stares at Franky, realizing how fun he is. Chopper then gets a gleam in his eyes. Franky yells at him to get rid of what he calls the "what would happen if I give him different drinks" face. He tells Chopper that this is his last chance, and it is not about what Chopper wants, as Franky takes only cola. Chopper then throws three bottles of cola to him. Fukurou tells them that he does not know what is going on, but he will not let them just play around. He attacks Franky with a Rankyaku, which sends him flying into the air and then crashing back down to the ground. Franky then gets back up yelling "Suuuuppppper".
Fukurou tells him there is no way he could have gotten stronger from cola. Franky tells Fukurou to guard himself. Fukurou asks if Franky is about to use one of his "crappy-flappy" punches. Franky then attacks him with a Strong Hammer punch. The punch sends Fukurou flying across the room and through several walls. Chopper is stunned by Franky's sudden increase in power. The chapter ends with Franky telling Fukurou that until a moment ago, his punches were truly "crappy-flappy".

The chapter starts by showing Fukurou in a heap in the balcony outside, having just been blasted through the wall by Franky. Chopper tells Franky to listen to him. He tells Franky they cannot do anything until they get the Number 2 key. Franky says at least he now knows what is going on, as Fukurou gets back up. Chopper remarks how tough he is. Fukurou tells Franky he has made him very angry. Franky tells Chopper to just sit back and watch. He then removes his shirt, exposing his shoulders. On each shoulder is what Franky calls a Destroyer Cannon. He says he hates using them since they dislocate is shoulders, so Chopper tells him not to use it. Fukurou laughs, saying that he cannot be bombarded, as he is a rokushiki user. Franky tells him that he cannot avoid a Destroyer Cannon shot, because they are "pursuit cannon balls". Chopper is amazed to hear of such technology.
Franky then runs after Fukurou while firing cannon shots at him, making Chopper realize that Franky is the one pursuing Fukurou, not the cannon balls. Fukurou realizes he fell for the trick, and uses Soru to get away. Franky looks around, wondering where he went. He then hears Fukurou's voice, telling him there is no point in trying to find him, as he is a master of Soru. He also mentions that in addition to his speed, his fighting style makes him as silent as an owl during a hunt.
Fukurou brags that he performs a perfect assassination, and the target will not be able to see him until the last second. Chopper then punches Fukurou in the stomach, and tells Franky he found where he has been hiding. Franky asks Fukurou if he saw that coming, which makes him mad. He yells that he will not tolerate such humiliation. He then uses Soru to go to the other side of the room, and uses Tekkai Dama on Franky. The force of the attack is enough to knock both fighters off the balcony and into the sea. Chopper realizes the severity of the situation. Franky could get swept into the waterfall, and Chopper would have no way of saving him. He can only wish Franky good luck.
In the water, Fukurou realizes he still has Geppo if he goes over the falls. Franky, on the other hand, is having a hard time struggling against the current, as Fukurou wishes for him to fall.
Back on land, Chopper hears a familiar voice. It is Kumadori. Chopper is amazed that he was able to open the heavy and locked refrigerator door. Kumadori is trying to say something, but is having a hard time due to his cold body. He gets his sentence out, in which he thanks Chopper for the food, and Chopper realizes that Kumadori has gotten much more fat, and wonders how much he ate.
In the ocean, Franky manages to get his head above the water. He says he does not want to drown in a place like this and realizes he is at the edge of the waterfall already. He then begins to panic as he begins to fall. Franky then uses Franky Butterfly, and begins to swim back to shore using the butterfly stroke. Fukurou will not let him get there, and uses Geppo: Dugong to send him back under the water. An angry Franky resurfaces and tries to use Weapons: Left on him. Fukurou uses Kami-e Slime, and bends his body to avoid Franky's explosives. Fukurou tells him too bad, as he came close. Franky goes under the water again, determined to get to shore by any means necessary. He then uses 1.0 Cola Cannon, Coup de Boo. He is launched out of the water and high into the air. Fukurou asks if he has learned that he cannot defeat a rokushiki user so easily. Franky then tries to use Strong Hammer on him, but Fukurou dodges using Kami-e again, and knocks Franky back toward the waterfall.
Franky launches a Strong Right attack at Fukurou, using it as a grappling hook to grab on to his ankle. He can now take Fukurou down to the bottom of the falls with him. Fukurou tells him it is too much to support two people with a one-legged Geppo. Franky asks him if he would like to go back to shore before he falls, or risk fighting someone while supporting two people's weight. Fukurou tells Franky that since his own life is at stake, he will take Franky back to shore. Fukurou tells him that the battle will end once they get to the shore, as he has found a way to finish Franky off with one last finishing move. The chapter ends with Franky saying he has found one as well.

The chapter starts with Franky and Fukurou still in the air, with Fukurou kicking his way to shore using Geppo as Franky holds on to his other leg. Franky tells him to hurry up. Fukurou is annoyed, as he does not want Franky telling him what to do, and he will silence him right now. He then begins to spin in the air, swinging Franky around with his leg. Fukurou then launches himself forward, using Super Cartwheel Tekkai-dama, with the intention of smashing Franky against the corner of the Tower of Justice. Franky realizes he will be smashed to bits if he does not do something, and uses Franky Centaur. He then locks both of Fukurou's legs, preventing him from using them, meaning he cannot move freely in the air. Fukurou tells him it does not matter, as there is nothing he can do at this speed anyway.
Franky tells him that is not quite true. He then connects his arms together, and uses Miniature Coup de Cannon. He aims the blast in the direction they are heading. The recoil from the blast is enough to cause Fukurou to lose all of his momentum. Fukurou realizes this, but Franky tells him it is good, as they are now over the shore. Franky then fires a Coup de Vent at Fukurou at point blank range while standing on his chest. Fukurou is blasted into the ground, making a hole in the shape of his body several feet deep. Fukurou is defeated.
The scene changes to inside the Tower of Justice, where Zoro and Sogeking are running from Jabra and Kaku. Zoro asks if the #2 key to their handcuffs has arrived yet. Sogeking tells Zoro he is tired and asks him for a piggy-back ride. Zoro just says whatever. Kaku launches a Shigan at the two pirates. He and Jabra then get into an argument. Jabra thought Kaku had meant to hit him with the Shigan. Kaku tells him that is a false accusation, but he would be more than happy to hit him if Jabra wishes so. Kaku adds that Jabra has been getting in his way since the beginning of the fight. Jabra snaps that he was going to say that, calling Kaku "Herbivore". Kaku tells him he prefers meat.
While they are arguing, Zoro is telling Sogeking his plan as they run away. The two of them will play Rock-Paper-Scissors, and the loser would cut his hand in off in order to get free. Sogeking is shocked that Zoro would think of something so insane. Zoro tells him that the loser could simply pick up their hand, take it back to Chopper, and have him sew it back on. Sogeking tells him they are not stuffed animals and it does not work like that. Zoro tells him he has another idea. Sogeking tells him he does not want to hear it. Kaku and Jabra then look over at Zoro and Sogeking. Sogeking is completely rigid. Zoro's right wrist is wrapped in Sogeking's bandages. Sogeking is on his side, holding Yubashiri with the hilt right in front of his face. Zoro tells him to keep his rigid posture, as he is a sword now. Sogeking is asking for a lawyer, saying he will sue Zoro for this some day, and begging Chopper to hurry.
The scene changes to Chopper and Kumadori. Chopper is amazed by Kumadori's utter lack of self control, and that he got so fat in only a matter of minutes. Kumadori then begins spouting random words. Chopper tells him he is not worried about him, he just needs something from him. Kumadori then uses a technique called Seimei Kikan. He is suddenly back to his normal weight and size. Chopper is shocked by what he has just seen. Kumadori tells him that after spending one thousand years in the ocean, and another thousand in the mountains, he inhales the air and drinks the dew, completing the training of the hermit life. As a result, he gained the technique Seimei Kikan. Kumadori goes on to say that there is no part of the body that humans cannot control by channeling the conscious to every part of the body.
Chopper remembers reading something about Kumadori's ability. Chopper asks him if moving his hair like an octopus is part of the ability. Kumadori gets mad, telling Chopper to call him manly. He then tells him to call him a manly lion. He then uses his hair in a technique Kamishabari. Chopper dodges, realizing he will be finished if he gets caught in his hair. Kumadori then uses Soru. He reappears above him and Chopper cannot find him. Kumadori then uses Shigan: Cue, and brings his staff down on Chopper. Chopper dodges at the last second, shocked to see that a staff that wasn't even sharp could make a hole in the floor. Kumadori then tries stabbing randomly at Chopper. Chopper gets annoyed, and hits Kumadori with a Heavy Gong as he was getting ready to use Tekkai.
Chopper hurts his hand when he punched him. He realizes that he will not be able to do any damage unless he uses Arm Point or Horn Point. But he remembers the dangers of using the Rumble Ball too soon in succession. The second ball would throw off the transformation, and the third ball would make him lose consciousness. He thinks that he can strengthen himself once more. Kumadori uses Shishkebab, trying to impale Chopper. As Chopper runs away, he realizes he is just wasting time, and eats a Rumble Ball. He tries using Horn Point, but it is intercepted. The same thing happens when he tries to use Jumping Point. As Chopper lies on the ground, he realizes that he cannot control his transformation. He thinks that if he could get into Arm Point, then he could use Kokutei.
Chopper realizes that the room is becoming dangerous with the flames created from the battle and that he has to find the #2 key to help Zoro and Sogeking, or they cannot get Nico Robin back. Kumadori calls him tenacious, and uses Seimei Kikan, making his hair take the shape of a hand. Chopper tells himself he has to do it, that he cannot be defeated here, and that he is the crew's hope. The chapter ends with Kumadori hitting Chopper in the stomach with a Shigan.

The chapter starts with Kumadori having just pummeled Chopper using his Life Return. Kumadori tells Chopper that he will not show any mercy as long as he is angry. Chopper considers the risks of eating a second Rumble Ball, and calculates the odds that he has a one in seven chance of being able to use Arm Point. He eats a Rumble Ball as Kumadori attacks him with another Shish Kebab. Chopper calls out his attack but realizes that he is not in Arm Point and that his body is at its limit. He has to get into Arm Point as Kumadori rushes toward him.
By some miracle, he manages to get into Arm Point. He then says that he has to place everything on this next attack. Kumadori hits him with Shigan, but Chopper plants his feet and withstands it. He knows if he retreats now, he will not get another chance to attack. As Kumadori gets ready to attack him with Tekkai Go, Chopper hits him in the chest with a Kokutei Roseo Metel. Kumadori is blasted back, knocking him to his knees, hoof prints covering his chest. Chopper collapses. Kumadori comments on the beauty of Chopper's attack. He then goes into a frenzy, saying he can no longer hold back and starts attacking Chopper. He kicks the weakened reindeer, who realizes his strength is completely drained.
Chopper has a flashback. He is lying in a bed injured. Kureha is asking him what he did to himself and Chopper says he cannot remember. Kureha tells him he will not be able to get out of trouble just because he does not remember, saying he is lucky no one got killed. Everyone in the country is distressed about the night Chopper cannot remember, and Kureha asks him what he is going to do about it. Kureha goes on to say that he almost destroyed an entire village. She tells him that she does not mind if he likes to experiment like Hiriluk, but things need to be done after careful consideration. She then asks him why he had to inherit everything from Hiriluk, including the ability to frighten people. Chopper apologizes to Kureha, promising he will not ever do it again, begging her not to kick him out of the castle. Kureha tells him not to be silly and to rest, as she cannot go shopping if he does not heal. Chopper fades back into reality as Kureha says that last line.
Kumadori binds Chopper with Life Return: Kami Shibari. He then tells him not to cry, for if he does, his manliness would cry also. Chopper realizes Kumadori is going to kill him. Kumadori then recites a poem about cruel fate. He then uses Yana Gin Jo on Chopper. At the last second, Chopper remembers he has to save Robin, transforming from his large form into his normal, small form. He escapes Kumadori's hair binds and avoids getting hit with the staff. Chopper eats a third Rumble Ball, saying if he is going to die, then he might as well do it, hoping no one enters the room. Chopper transform and is now several times larger than Kumadori. Chopper remembers what he told Kureha during the flashback. He ate three Rumble Balls, then he lost consciousness. Kureha interrupts him, saying that one could call it a Devil Fruit going crazy, telling him never to do that again. She tells him that his power can destroy friends and enemies alike and takes a toll on his body. It was as if he had become a real monster.
The scene changes to outside the courthouse, where Franky is lying on the ground. Franky is saying that he took longer than expected with his fight. He shrugs it off because he got Fukurou's key, Key 4. He then remembers that Zoro and Sogeking needed Key 2 and Kumadori has Key 3. He reasons that Kalifa must be the one who has key 2.
The scene changes to a bath, where Kalifa is playing with the bubbles. Nami is lying by a large dent in the wall, having trouble getting up. Kalifa teases her, saying she thought Nami did not have very much time, or maybe she misheard. Nami tells Kalifa not to make fun of her, as she will not her. Kalifa then invites Nami to come and get her, saying there is no need to wait since their battle started a long time ago. Nami tells her that she is amazed to see a Devil Fruit user bathing in front of an enemy, since she should be powerless with half of her body immersed in water. Kalifa asks if Nami is trying to point out a flaw in her defense, saying that Nami is just as powerless as she is. Kalifa then asks Nami to excuse her for a moment. She goes behind a screen to dry herself off and change into her clothes. Nami asks what she did to her.
Kalifa teasingly replies that solving that kind of mystery comes with the fun of fighting Devil Fruit users. Nami remembers how Sanji had become all rounded and shiny, realizing she needs to be careful or else she would have intervened for nothing. She then realizes that she is regaining her strength. Nami tells Kalifa that she will show her the true power of her Clima-Tact and that she should not be dismissed simply as "cute". She realizes she can move her legs again and gets up, using Thunder Charge, forming a ball of electricity on the end of the staff, then using Swing Arm, twirling the staff at a joint, launching the electricity at Kalifa.
Kalifa does not seem hurt by it at all, though she does comment on how amazing the weapon is. Nami then uses Thunder Ball, launching another ball of lightning, this time at the ceiling, where a storm cloud had formed. Kalifa seems confused by the cloud and Nami tells her she wasn't lying around doing nothing. The chapter ends with Nami discharging the cloud, calling it Thunderbolt Tempo, causing a large bolt of lightning to hit the ground near Kalifa.

The chapter starts with the smoke clearing from Nami's electric attack on Kalifa. Nami tells Kalifa she got overconfident. As the smoke clears, Nami can see an egg-shaped capsule where Kalifa should have been. The capsule begins to dissolve away, revealing Kalifa inside it. She steps out of the capsule, saying she has never thought she would be struck by lightning indoors. Nami asks what protected her from the lightning and why it dissolved away. Kalifa tells her that unless she figures it out, she has no chance of winning. Nami compares it Kalifa's power to soap dissolving in water, wondering if the Awa Awa no Mi made her a soap woman.
Kalifa, taken aback by Nami's wild guess, tells her that even knowing her power is not enough for her to win. Nami realizes that she guessed right, feeling sorry for Kalifa. Kalifa calls herself "cleanliness personified", a soap woman who ate the Awa Awa no Mi that can produce bubbles from any part of her body. Kalifa's beauty and soapy poise surprise Nami, making her comment to herself how sexy Kalifa looks, and how she would be happy if Kalifa were her secretary. She then catches herself, remembering she is not a man. Nami asks Kalifa if she finds her new ability inconvenient, since it does not seem useful in battle. Kalifa tells Nami that she can control the bubbles from her body any way she wants.
She then uses an attack, Bubble Master. She pulls the soap from her bath tub and uses it to cover herself, creating a large trail behind her. She calls it Soap Sheep. Nami asks her if she is an idiot. Kalifa tells her that appearances can be deceiving. She then launches the soap bubbles at Nami in an attack called Hitsuji-gumo Relax Hour.
Kalifa asks Nami why she thought she lost her strength when she first entered the room. Nami realizes it must be because of Kalifa's ability, remembering the floor was covered with bubbles. The bubbles collide with Nami, knocking her over. Nami realizes she is losing her strength because the bubbles are draining it from her body. Kalifa then attacks Nami with Rankyaku, removing the bubbles on her. Kalifa tells her that her bubbles can remove anything, from strength to stains. Nami tells her she will not forgive her, and launches a thunder ball at her from her Clima-Tact. Kalifa dodges the attack, and reappears behind Nami, saying that only Nami's weapon is still a mystery to her.
She then begins rubbing Nami's legs, getting soap on them. Nami tries to hit her but Kalifa dodges using Soru as Nami falls to the ground. She then realizes that she cannot stand up. Looking at her legs, she realizes they are completely smooth and slick from the soap. Kalifa tells Nami that anything she touches becomes smooth and shiny like her legs.
The scene changes to Chopper's battle with Kumadori. Kumadori attacks Chopper in his Monster Point from behind using Haru Gin Jou, but Chopper turns around and slams Kumadori into the floor. He tries to stand up but Chopper's fist pounds him into the ground again and proceeds to pound him repeatedly. Meanwhile, Franky is on the balcony, weakened from his fight and trying to figure out how to get more cola. Chopper then appears in front of Franky, dragging an unconscious Kumadori with him. Chopper then throws Kumadori over the balcony toward the other building. Franky then recognizes the hat that the behemoth before him was wearing is identical to the one Chopper wears. He then asks the monster if it was Chopper. In response, the monster's giant hand tries to crush Franky.
Back at the main island, the agents in the square are looking at Kumadori, whose body has just landed in front of them, wondering who could have done it. At the tower, Chopper is now outside climbing up the tower. In the undersea passage, Spandam is yelling at Nico Robin for not keeping up with him. He yells at her, telling her not to stop and ordering Rob Lucci to drag her over and pull her by the hair if necessary. Robin is looking back at the dark tunnel, thinking she just heard a voice. Lucci grabs her by the arm, telling her it is an order for her to walk. Spandam laughs at her, asking if she really expects her friends to save her. He tells Robin that the sound she heard earlier was just her imagination and there is no way they could come here. Spandam tells her that they are getting closer to the Bridge of Hesitation, which stands before the Gates of Justice. When they cross the bridge halfway, the other half will come up and they will go through the Gates of Justice.
After that, Robin will never feel hope again. As they continue walking, they all hear someone call out to Robin. Spandam panics, asking what that voice he just heard was. Robin smiles. Lucci tells Spandam to take Robin and continue on. Luffy is running through the tunnel and sees a set of double doors at the end. He comments that they do not look steel this time. Luffy kicks through the door and is in some kind of storage room. He wonders where he is when Lucci welcomes him.

The chapter starts by showing how each Straw Hat pirate and Franky are progressing in their fights. Zoro and Sogeking are on the fourth floor, fighting Jabra and Kaku, who are holding keys #1 and #5, respectively. Sanji is in a heap on the first floor, still smooth from Kalifa's ability. Chopper is clinging to the wall of the tower in his Monster Point. On the fifth floor, Nami and Kalifa are fighting. Nami has the #3 key and is trying to take Kalifa's #2 key. Outside the tower, Franky is lying on his back exhausted, while Fukurou and Kumadori are both defeated and unconscious. And inside the Bridge of Hesitation, Luffy is getting ready to fight Rob Lucci. Spandam is running up stairs, pulling Robin with him. He is furious that a pirate followed them this far. He pulls out a Den Den Mushi and tries to contract the rest of the CP9 agents. When he does not understand why they aren't responding, Robin asks him what he is holding. Spandam looks at his hand and realizes he is talking into, and holding down the button of the Golden Den Den Mushi, activating the Buster Call.
A Silver Den Den Mushi in Marine Headquarters starts to vibrate. Someone reports it, and that Aokiji had requested the Buster Call and confirmed it came from Enies Lobby. Vice Admiral John Giant is giving commands. He ordered five vice admirals in the area of the call to respond. He ordered the ten battle ships to be ready and for the vice admirals to be gathered. A soldier tells him that they can make it to Enies Lobby in thirty minutes. Spandam is talking into a Baby Den Den Mushi, the proper one, now. Kalifa responds. He tells her that he screwed up and accidentally set the Buster Call into action. The Den Den Mushi he is talking into is also linked up with an intercom system in Enies Lobby, so everyone on the island heard it.
The soldiers are shocked, and cannot believe what they are hearing. Lucci and Luffy are listening to the conversation on a Baby Den Den Mushi from the room they are in, and hear Robin's voice asking Spandam what he has done and telling him to cancel it immediately as it has dire consequences. Nami and Kalifa are listening to it, as are the captured Galley-La Company foremen and Franky Family. Oimo and Kashii, also tied up, are out of breath and smiling at the announcement, as a nearby soldier recognizes Spandam's voice. Spandam is now laughing, as if he is unafraid of the Buster Call. He then tries to make it seem to himself that it wasn't an accident. He tells himself that as chief of CP9, he ordered the Buster Call in order to deliver Robin to the World Government without fail.
He then asks himself if that is a good cause, since at least all of the pirates would be dead. Robin tells him it is foolish to think that way. The Buster Call is void of all emotion. It will burn down anything and everything on Enies Lobby, including the island itself. It will sacrifice everyone to carry out its goal, a focus fire attack. Robin tells Spandam that he does not know what happened twenty years ago on Ohara.
Spandam shrugs off her words, saying it is an important case for the world government. Since Cutty Flam burned the blueprints to Pluton, Robin is the only way left to revive the ancient weapons. He goes on to say that military strength that will overturn an era will depend on Pluton and anyone who dies as a result will be considered a sacrifice for the future. What he does not realize is everything he is saying is being transmitted across the island on the Den Den Mushi he is holding. All the soldiers listening are stunned that they would be sacrificed. Robin asks Spandam what human lives are to him. Spandam tells her that if people have to die for more people to be saved, then they will be killed without hesitation. In order for true justice to be enacted, there has to be sacrifice.
He tells her that the soldiers are better off dead anyway, since they could not stop the pirates from invading. Robin tells Spandam that the Den Den Mushi he is holding is still off the hook. Spandam realizes to his horror that everyone heard the conversation, and tries to pretend he is Luffy, but no one believes him. Robin tries to tell everyone to escape, as they will not survive the Buster Call. Spandam punches her out of the way and hangs up, telling her not to say anything unnecessary.
The CP9 and Straw Hat Pirates momentarily stop their battle to discuss the Buster Call. Jabra is angry at Spandam and Zoro realizes they are in danger. Kalifa tells Nami the pirates do not have any hope left. Nami tells her not to worry, since they are used to dire situations like this. Kokoro laughs, saying things are getting more interesting. Soldiers are scrambling to get off the island, leaving their prisoners unattended. Zambai asks why they are running away when war ships are coming. Paulie explains that the whole island will be burned down. They then shout to the fleeing Marine soldiers to untie them if they are going to run away. Spandam is walking down the stairs to Robin, who had fallen a good bit from him punching her. He asked her how she would take responsibility if the pirates escaped.
Luffy is talking to Lucci, asking where Robin's voice came from. Lucci points to the door on the other side of the room and tells him her voice came from behind it. Luffy attacks Lucci with a kick, and Lucci easily defends. He tells Luffy he cannot let him pass. Luffy punches him in the stomach but Lucci is unaffected. Luffy then goes for a high kick, but Lucci intercepts it with a kick of his own. He then hits Luffy squarely in the face. Luffy then dodges a sweeping kick as both bring their arms back, getting ready to throw a punch. The chapter ends with their fists meeting. The force of impact is strong enough to blow away everything in the room.

Luffy pushes the crate off of him, and tells Rob Lucci to back off, asking if Robin went through the door. Lucci tells Luffy she did, but he will never see her again. Outside, agents and Marines are trying to flee the island so they do not fall victim to the approaching Buster Call. In the Tower of Justice, the Galley-La foremen and Franky Family are still tied up and talking about what might happen to them. In another room, Kaku and Jabra realize they need to finish their fight quickly. Zoro decides to call the make shift sword he made with Sogeking "Hana Arashi".
Meanwhile, Luffy is still fighting Lucci. After some quick hand to hand combat, Luffy manages to push Lucci aside and makes for the door. Lucci sends Luffy flying into the wall with another high speed kick. Luffy throws a crate at him and Lucci breaks it easily with his hand. Luffy, who had run after the crate, quickly throws multiple punches. Lucci dodges them and the two continue to fight. They cross paths in the air, and Lucci delivers several quick attacks to Luffy, who does not feel anything until a few seconds after the attack stops. Luffy then charges at Lucci with a Gomu Gomu on Bazooka, which Lucci intercepts with a kick.
The scene changes to Nami and Kalifa's fight. Kalifa remarks how the room suddenly became crowded, and their lives will be in danger if they stay much longer. She uses Soru and sneaks up behind Nami, using her Golden Awa technique on her. Nami realizes her body is slippery everywhere. She cannot grip her Clima-Tact or stand up. Kalifa tells Nami to give up on the key, but Nami uses Cool Charge, and Kalifa stops it with a Rankyaku. The attack hits Nami and she dissipates. Another Nami identical to the first one appears behind Kalifa and tells her it was Mirage Tempo. She hits that one and it dissipates again. Kalifa hears Nami's voice saying "Over here". She turns to look, and the wall behind her shatters and Chopper in Monster Point bursts into the room. Both women are shocked, and Kalifa thinks Nami is a Zoan user after seeing Chopper.

Nami and Kalifa's battle is interrupted by Chopper's arrival in his Monster Point. Kalifa thinks that Nami is a Zoan user because Chopper appeared where Kalifa thought Nami was. Kalifa uses Geppo on Chopper to no avail. Nami tries to get Chopper's attention by asking what happened to him. Chopper sees Nami and then brings his fist down on her. Nami jumps out of the way. Kalifa realizes that Chopper in front of her is not Nami. Chopper picks up Kalifa's bed and throws it over the railing. Nami realizes that the bed Chopper threw is headed right for Sanji on the first floor. Chopper breaks through the wall and is standing next to the railing.
Nami realizes she has to stop Chopper and Kalifa comments on how the Straw Hats have a creepy pet. Nami ignores her, bothering Kalifa. Kalifa says she does not care if Nami stops Chopper, but she has to stop her. She attacks Nami with Rankyaku. Nami thinks she cannot dodge the attack due to being slippery, but miraculously does. Nami realizes that one of her feet is back to normal. It had gotten wet earlier and Nami realizes how to counter Kalifa's abilities. She runs over to the water from the bathtub pipe to soak her body but Kalifa attacks her before she can reach it.
Kalifa tells Nami there is no way she can let her do that. Kalifa then gets ready to attack Nami with Hitsuji Gumo, Relax Awa. Nami tries to counter with her Clima-Tact but her slippery hands drop it. Nami feels her strength fading from the Relax Awa. Kalifa attacks Nami with Bending Shigan Whip.
Nami then thanks Kalifa for hitting her because the more she blows her away, the more she blows away the soap. Nami then uses Cloud Tempo to make storm clouds. She makes it rain with a Cool Ball and then promptly uses the staff to block a kick from Kalifa. Nami then uses Cool Charge and then Mirage Tempo. Nami then tells Kalifa that she figured out Kalifa's ability and the only way to counter her strength is to catch her off guard. Nami then uses Fata Morgana. While Kalifa is distracted, Nami attacks Kalifa with Thunder Ball.

Kalifa, fried from Nami's attack, falls to her knees. Nami tells her that her "forecast" shows that Kalifa will be defeated by her next attack. Kalifa uses Soru to get behind Nami and kicks her, but she is a mirage. She attacks three more mirages to no avail. Nami is making a storm cloud on her Clima-Tact, saying the air currents from it will cause lightning to strike her heart. Kalifa reminds her that she was able to avoid being shocked before. Nami pointed out the weakness of her shield being that she cannot move. Kalifa then uses Soap Sheep, and attacks Nami with Hitsuji Gumo Tidal Wave.
Nami uses Cyclone Tempo to make an opening in the wave. She attacks a mirage. She then attacks the real Nami with Shigan. Nami then tells Kalifa that the thunder will gush out from the cloud she formed earlier, which it promptly does. The electricity passes through Kalifa's heart, as Nami predicted it would. Kalifa falls to the ground, defeated.
The scene changes to Franky, who is looking for Chopper. He climbs through a hole up to Nami's floor. Franky asks Nami about Chopper's mysterious new form. Neither of them know anything about it. Franky says he will simply have to strangle him, which causes Nami to hit him in the head. Franky then tells Nami that Kalifa's #2 key important. Nami quickly starts to look for it. Sogeking is suddenly seen crying. He and Zoro are running from the monstrous Chopper. Sogeking (who is still being held like a sword), says it is definitely Chopper, as he recognizes the hat and the horns. Zoro notes that Chopper's vitality is decreasing, concluding that his form drains more energy than normal.
Kaku asks Jabra what that monster is. Jabra concludes that it interrupted the battle and is probably one of the Straw Hats. Kaku remembers the Buster Call is coming soon too. The two then conclude they will simply have to annihilate all three of the pirates. Zoro tells Sogeking to straighten his back and uses 36 Pound Cannon. Franky then yells for the two to get out of his way. Zoro objects to Franky's interference, but Franky simply tells him to shut up. He shoots Chopper with a Coup de Burst with the intent to blast him into the ocean. Chopper is blasted through the wall and into the ocean.
Sogeking is bewildered by this and tries to ask Franky what he is thinking. Nami interrupts him and says Franky had the whole thing planned. Franky then follows Chopper into the ocean. Kaku and Jabra then turn to face the pirates.
Nami gives the key to Zoro and now he and Sogeking are freed. Zoro tells Kaku and Jabra not to laugh, but to regret, because the greatest chance they had in defeating them just vanished.

Everyone is running from Enies Lobby to avoid the impending Buster Call. Nico Robin is running back the way she came. Spandam tells her that if she goes back, all she will see are pirate corpses. Spandam draws Funkfreed and uses Ivory Dart to stop her. Robin is pinned between Funkfreed's left tusk and sword trunk. Outside, Franky has pulled Chopper from the ocean and dragged him onto shore. Chopper has reverted to normal, but he is unconscious. As he is pumping the water out of Chopper's body, he wonders how to get to the Gate of Justice. Kokoro, Chimney, and Gonbe conveniently appear to show Franky the way to the Gate of Justice. Franky then has a flashback of Nami giving him a baby Den Den Mushi and the 3rd and 4th keys. Franky then leaves Chopper in the hands of Kokoro and her granddaughter and heads toward the Gate of Justice.
Back inside the tower, Jabra comments that they are wasting time, and Nami yells at Zoro and Sogeking for it. Zoro and Sogeking each blame the other for being an idiot. Kaku uses Rankyaku Sen, which Zoro intercepts. He tries to slice Kaku's neck, but Kaku moves his neck out of the way, saying he gained the muscles to fully control his giraffe neck. Kaku then uses Bigan which Zoro blocks. Sogeking, Jabra, and Nami are watching the swordsmen's fight from the sidelines. Sogeking then challenges Jabra.
To his surprise, Jabra tosses his key at Sogeking's feet. He tells Sogeking that he hates blood and fighting. Sogeking bends over to pick up the key. Nami tries to tell him it's a trap, but before she can Jabra attacks Sogeking with Jusshigan. Sogeking hits the wall and Nami runs over to him. Sogeking fires a Himawariboshi from his Kabuto but Jabra dodges it with Soru. Jabra then kicks Sogeking's head into the wall. Just as Jabra is about to kill Sogeking, Sanji flies in out of nowhere and lands a kick on the side of his head that sends him across the room. When Jabra asks Sanji who he is, Sanji tells him he is the hunter.

Nami asks Sanji how he returned to normal. Sanji tells her that a bathtub landed near him and he got wet. Sogeking apologizes to Sanji for not being able to handle Jabra. Sanji says he does not care as long as Sogeking is fine. He then looks outside and sees the Gate of Justice are about to open. Spandam is dragging Robin up the stairs by her hair.
Luffy is still fighting Rob Lucci. Franky is running down a hallway trying to catch up with Robin and Spandam. Chimney is painting arrows on the walls so the others can follow Robin. At the entrance to Enies Lobby, everyone is trying to escape. The Sea Train's carriages are full to capacity, with people even riding on the roof. Someone calls for ships to be sent in from remote islands. The Galley-La foremen and Franky Family are also trying to escape. They were freed by Paulie who had tied himself up to trick the agents.
Back in the tower, Sanji tells Sogeking to leave Jabra's key to him. He also tells Sogeking that if he gets there, then he could definitely rescue Robin. Nami drags Sogeking away as Jabra uses Soru. He then uses Tekkai Kenpo Ookami Hajiki. Sanji is blasted into a wall. Sogeking suddenly understands what Sanji told him. He yells it, which attracts Jabra's attention. Jabra decides he should kill them. But before he can do anything, Sanji kicks his head into a wall. Jabra tries to attack him with Jusshigan, but Sanji easily avoids it. Sanji then attacks with Troisieme Hachis.
Jabra manages to counter somewhat with a Tekkai. Jabra then attacks Sanji with Rankyaku Koro. Sanji then attacks Jabra with a barrage of Basse Cote, Longe, Tendron, Flanchet, Quasi, Queue, Cuisse, and Jarret. Sanji then runs up on him and uses Veau Shoot, which Jabra absorbs with Tekkai. Jabra then attacks Sanji with Rouga. Jabra then tells Sanji he is the only member of CP9 that can move while using Tekkai. Sanji attacks him with Deuxieme Hachis. Jabra then laughs and tosses his key at Sanji's feet. He tells Sanji that Robin is his long lost younger sister and he needs Sanji to rescue her. Sanji is surprised. He goes over to pick up the key. Just as Jabra is about to attack him, Sanji delivers a kick to his chin, asking Jabra if he really thought he would fall for his lie.

Sanji has kicked Jabra through the floor, telling him to try a more convincing lie next time. Sanji then holds up Jabra's key, having taken it from him after calling his bluff. Sanji then runs off. Jabra uses Soru to overtake and intercept him. His plan backfires, as Sanji lands a kick on his nose before he could do anything. Sanji is about to use Party Table, and Jabra uses Tekkai Kenpo. Jabra is about to attack when he realizes Sanji has disappeared. The chef then hits Jabra from behind with Cuisse Shoot. He follows it up with a Brochette, which Jabra dodges. Jabra then uses Tekkai Kenpo Roga no Kamae and starts bouncing all around Sanji. He then attacks Sanji with Rokaru Area Network, a slashing attack. Jabra then uses another Tekkai Kenpo move, Dong Poro, hitting Sanji directly in the gut with his Tekkai-hardened fist, blasting him across the tower to the other balcony. Jabra then uses Rankyaku Lupus Fall, sending four slashes that look like wolves toward Sanji. The Rankyaku hits Sanji, and Jabra howls in victory, thinking he has won.
Sanji then gets up and reveals he is not planning to run or be killed, and he will not forgive Jabra either. Jabra then uses Tekkai Kenpo Matenro, a kicking attack similar to Sanji's Party Table. The attack hits, and Sanji is knocked back. He then gets up and starts spinning rapidly. When he stops spinning, his right leg is glowing with heat. He calls this new technique Diable Jambe. With it, he delivers a devastating kick to Jabra's stomach, breaking through his Tekkai and sending him across the room to the other balcony. Jabra realized that the kick broke his ribs and burned him all the way to the bone.
Sanji then jumps into the air to reach Jabra, who wondered what Sanji was thinking by having an aerial battle with a Rokushiki user. Sanji uses Diable Jambe Premiere Hachis. Jabra dodges with Geppo, reappearing above him. Jabra then roars as he comes down on Sanji using Gekko Jusshigan. Sanji blocks one arm with a kick, letting the other hit him, and tells Jabra that he had to reserve the other kick for the finishing blow. He then uses Diable Jambe: Flambage Shot as the finishing blow, hitting Jabra squarely in the face.

Jabra is on the ground unconscious. Sanji stands over him and says "God creates food and the Devil creates seasonings" as his leg cools. Sanji looks at Jabra and admits he might have overdone it on the finishing move. He looks up and sees some rubble falling and wonders if Zoro and Kaku are trying to completely break the tower. He sees the arrows that Chimney had painted earlier and realizes the others must have gone ahead and decides to do the same.
Meanwhile, Robin and Spandam have reached the Bridge of Hesitation. The Gate of Justice are already opening, and Spandam tells Robin that once they pass through them, he will be the hero of the world. The connecting bridge is rising up right now. Franky is running at full speed down the hallway, realizing everything will be meaningless if he does not make it with the keys. Out at sea, a Marine announces that the Buster Call will arrive at Enies Lobby in ten minutes. A wall then blows away in front of Franky. It is from Luffy's battle with Rob Lucci. Franky asks if he needs help, and Luffy tells him that he is fine, and should go stop Robin.
Back inside the tower, Zoro and Kaku are fighting each other at full power. Zoro is teasing him about being a herbivore, even though Kaku tells him he prefers meat. Zoro tells him he does not care and needs to finish the fight quickly, as he would still lose if he was late to save Robin. He then uses Nigiri Toro against Kaku and follows it up with Otoro. Kaku dodges both. Kaku uses Hirameki but is blocked and Zoro uses Samon to send two slashes at Kaku. Kaku sends Zoro crashing to the ground with Kamakirin. He then uses Tekkai Mushikaku and folds his neck around his body.
He is now incredibly squat and stubby. He then uses Rankyaku with his stubby arms, and Zoro asks him how he will fight like that. Kaku tells him that his attack has already begun. His attack will be reflected by the ceiling and rain down on Zoro, an attack he calls Kiri Shigure. Zoro manages to deflect the first several blows but gets overwhelmed. Kaku minimizes collateral damage with Tekkai. After the rain has stopped, Kaku hits Zoro in the stomach with Bigan. After teasing Kaku about being a giraffe again, Zoro then tries to break his Tekkai with Shishi Sonson which Kaku deflects with Rankyaku Rodan. Kaku the tells Zoro it is up to him if he wants to take his attack with Tekkai. Zoro calls Kaku a tough customer. Zoro then flexes his muscles and uses Nigori Zake which Kaku counters with Bigan. Kaku gets thrown back. Zoro comments on how arrogant it was of Kaku to think he would not fall. Kaku tells Zoro he is just as arrogant.

After being knocked down by Zoro's Nigori-Zake, Kaku got angry and claimed he has not yet shown his real Devil Fruit strength. Kaku used his Kyoku Bigan "Kirimanjaro" and attacked Zoro, but Zoro dodged it. Kaku then uses Rankyaku "Neji Hakujin" and Zoro managed to block it.
Kaku prepared himself once again to use Kirimanjaro but he pulled his neck inside so fast that his legs extended, surprising both Zoro and himself. Then Kaku realized he can use that form in battle and gives it the name of Pasta Machine. Zoro got angry saying that it was not the time to be thinking names for his attacks. Kaku claimed he is very good in unexpected situations and then used Kirimanjaro. Zoro used Tatsu Maki to strike back, making Kaku use Kirimanjaro and jump high in the air. Then he fell, attacking with his swords, Zoro tried to block it, but Kaku's strength was too much.
Kaku then bombarded Zoro with continuous sword slashes while he said he has several advantages: his Four Sword Style, his Rokushiki, and his giraffe form. However, Zoro stopped the attack saying that advantages are not enough to beat him.
Zoro prepared his counterattack and used Hyokindama, Kaku tried to dodge it with Kami-e but somehow Zoro managed to slash him, knocking Kaku down. Kaku went berserk and attacked with Rankyaku: Shuriken. Zoro tried blocking them, but Kaku's attacks were too strong, and the giraffe hit him in the stomach with Kirimanjaro knocking down the pirate. Before Zoro could stand, Kaku struck him with Henchikirin and Mochikirin. After Zoro stood up, Kaku used Gekirin; a great barrage of sword slashes and Rokushiki. Zoro tried to block them, and finally, he has awoken some kind of dark aura within him.
Kaku stopped. He thinks he has seen the form of a demon god of six arms and three faces. Kaku decided to end the battle, he started spinning in order to deliver his strongest Rankyaku "Amane Dachi". Zoro saw this and activated his ultimate form: Kiki Kyutoryu: Ashura, gaining two extra faces and four extra arms, giving him the form of the demon god Kaku saw before.
Kaku delivered his Amane Dachi. Zoro blocked it with his nine swords and then disintegrated Kaku's attack. Finally, Zoro charged against his opponent and with Ashura: Ichibugin, ended the face off.

The chapter starts off with Roronoa Zoro finishing Kaku. Zoro then gives him the message Paulie gave him which is, "You're fired". Kaku manages to joke around a small bit before handing over the key. Sanji catches up with him, and they both head off to catch up with Nico Robin.
Meanwhile, the giants, carrying the Galley-La Company foremen, the Franky Family, Sodom and Gomorrah, are hurrying to try to escape the island before the Buster Call arrives.
Meanwhile, Spandam and Robin have finally reached the Gates of Justice. Robin tries to run away back to the Straw Hats, but Spandam keeps telling her she has no hope.
Back to the fight with Luffy and Rob Lucci, Luffy is badly hurt. Franky tries his Strong Hammer move, but Lucci merely uses his Tekkai, which is five times stronger than Fukurou's. Lucci then proceeds to beat up Franky. Before he could finish him, Luffy uses Gear 2 and hits Lucci with his Gomu Gomu no Jet Pistol. Franky is shocked to see such an increase in power. Luffy tells him to go on and catch up to Robin, while he takes care of Lucci, who is now in his human-leopard hybrid form. Lucci reminds him that he stabbed Luffy in this form, but Luffy just said that wound healed after he ate some meat. Lucci again uses his Shigan move, but Luffy dodges and fights back with his Gomu Gomu no Jet Bazooka.
Meanwhile, Spandam manages to shake Robin free and they continue onward. Luffy yells at Franky to hurry up and get Robin. With that, Franky quickly runs off to get her back.

Everyone outside is shocked that the Gate of Justice are opening all the way. Paulie remembers Kokoro telling him once that the Gates of Justice would never open fully. The Franky Family, Galley-La Company foremen, and the giants are all trying to escape. Luffy is talking to Lucci, saying he left Robin to Franky. Lucci tells him he underestimated the pirate, as he did not think that Luffy would be this powerful. Meanwhile, the Marine ship at the end of the Bridge of Hesitation is ready to take Robin to Marine Headquarters to be interrogated and executed. The commanding officer orders the men to stand and salute Spandam. Spandam sees it from a distance. At this point, Robin is so resistant that Spandam has to drag her with a rope.
Spandam tells her that he planted a bomb underneath the bridge on the staircase, so anyone who tries to save her will trigger it. Spandam tells her that he knows everything that happened on Ohara twenty years ago. He mentions Saul's rampage and her mother in specific. He reveals that the man who told him was the same person put in charge of the operation, his father, Spandine. He also reveals that Spandine was the one who put the bounty on Robin's head. Robin tearfully yells that she is still alive.
The bridge then explodes where Spandam planted the bomb. The blast throws Franky into the water. Robin watches, realizing he had come to save her. Robin feels she is on the verge of a breakdown. Just then, Spandam bursts into flames and is thrown forward over the waiting soldiers. The soldiers then start falling over with flames coming out of them. They then look at the top of the Tower of Justice and see Sogeking. Zoro and Sanji are watching from the ground as Sogeking hits Spandam with another fiery shot. Robin takes advantage of the men's distraction and starts to run. The Marines try to shoot her, but Franky appears and blocks the bullets. Sogeking then starts talking to Franky on a Den Den Mushi. He tells Franky he should see a red cloth bundle near him. There are two keys in there, completing the set. Zoro tells Sanji they had better hurry, as it is about to get worse.

Franky tries all the keys everyone had fought for and gained from the CP9 members until he finds the one that opens Robin's cuffs to the shock of Spandam. Spandam cannot believe the Straw Hat Pirates defeated all the members of CP9 in the Tower of Justice, claiming they must have stolen them and ran. They tell Robin via Den Den Mushi to thank them later and do whatever she wants in the meantime. Her first act is to summon arms on Spandam and proceed to beat him senseless.
Franky orders the others to join him. Just then a loud explosion from the Gates of Justice grabs the group's attention, the fence around the island is now broken and the sound is a signal that Buster Call is arriving and the bombardment has already begun. A huge explosion hits the tower where Sogeking was, Paulie and the others with him hear it and start worrying. The World Government workers and Marines still left on Enies Lobby realize they have to get off now. Sanji calls Sogeking, Sogeking stands up reporting he is fine. Spandam orders the Marines with him to catch Franky and Robin now.
In the underground tunnel Nami, Kokoro and Chimney rush through the tunnel to escape the bombardment above as the vibration hits the tunnel. Meanwhile, above Bridge of Hesitation, Luffy and Rob Lucci continue fighting. Rob Lucci finally figures out how Luffy's Gear Second works. Rob Lucci speaks of the earlier explosion being a test and that the real bombardment is about to start on the island. He mocks Luffy saying his crew and everyone else is about to be destroyed and anyone in the underground tunnel will drown.
Back on the bridge, Spandam tells the Marines to stop messing around, reminding them the ships are coming. But it is already too late, one of them reports they can see the ships now; the Buster Call has arrived.

The details of the Buster Call are announced to all ships in the fleet; destroy Enies Lobby and capture Nico Robin again. On the Bridge of Hesitation, the Marines run in fear. Spandam retells his father Spandine saying how even the indiscrimination of Buster Call would not kill him. Just as he predicted, the bridge is excluded from targeting via the Buster Call. Franky is amazed by the sight, and Robin cannot stop shaking after seeing the horrid sight of the Buster Call in action again. Back in the Tower of Justice, all other members of CP9 lay still unconscious.
Under the tunnel, Zoro and Sanji rush Sogeking in the tunnel. Coming the other way is Nami, Chopper, Kokoro, Chimney and Gonbe who are trying to outrun the flooding waters behind them.
The battle with Rob Lucci rages on between him and Luffy. Below them, the room they are fighting in is now filling up with water. Lucci heads up to the top, followed by Luffy. Lucci says he'll allow Luffy to go off to save his friends if he wishes to, but Luffy says his crew and the others will survive and that he will not take his eyes off Lucci because he knows Lucci would take the opportunity to kill them. Lucci expresses some approval of Luffy's leadership as compared to Spandam's, but tauntingly asks if Luffy will be able to follow through in battle.
Lucci launches himself at Luffy and the fight continues as Lucci throws more Rokushiki techniques at him. Luffy tries his hardest, but Lucci gets the better of him in every instance. Luffy fights on, claiming that if he cannot beat Lucci, he cannot protect anyone. Once again Lucci attacks, striking Luffy hard, Luffy can barely hold out, Luffy decides it's time for Gear 3. Lucci is surprised at Luffy's technique which makes his arm the size of a giant, he blocks and is hit by a Gomu Gomu no Gigant Pistol attack, which knocks him through the wall of the tower.

Onboard one of the Buster Call ships, Doberman is asked by one of his men if they should attack the Bridge of Hesitation where Nico Robin is. The Vice Admiral retells the story of 15 years ago when a single aided in an incident against a group of pirates. The same boy was Rob Lucci who is on a mission right now to get Robin.
The remaining Marines on the island rush to the Sea Train to find there is no driver, but board it anyway. Underground, Zoro, Sogeking and Sanji suddenly find they have water rushing in behind them and are running for their lives. Unfortunately the water is rushing in from both sides and ahead Nami, Kokoro, Chimney, Chopper and Gonbe are heading their way. Zoro tries to cut through the wall, but unfortunately, the tunnel has been strengthened and cannot be cut and at that moment they are engulfed by water.
Lucci is near unconscious after being hit by Luffy's Gomu Gomu no Giant Pistol. He reminds himself he cannot allow himself to fall in the water. He uses a technique to survive and lands alive on a battleship. When he recovers and transforms back into human form, the Marines attempt to find out who he is and arrest him, but a Vice Admiral prevents them. They soon realize the man is Rob Lucci of CP9. Lucci tells them all to shut up as hearing their whimpering offends him. Attention is drawn as Luffy comes after Lucci.
The Marines fire at Luffy, but Luffy takes the shots and focuses on Lucci. Lucci avoids a Gomu Gomu no Gigant Axe . Lucci transforms into his Devil Fruit Beast Form and bites Luffy in the shoulder. Luffy blows off Lucci by pulling the air back into his body. With a Gomu Gomu no Gigant Whip, Luffy knocks down the mast of the battleship which once again results in Lucci escaping. Lucci believes he has figured out Gear 3.
At that moment, one of the Vice Admirals orders an attack on the battleship in an attempt to kill Luffy, despite the fact there are one thousand Marines on board. The soldier who asks him what about their allies being at risk is shot dead in front of everyone.

The Marine ship that Luffy and Lucci were fighting on collapses, Luffy is shocked from it due to his Gear 3 running out. He shrinks down to "Chibi" size. Luffy knows that Gear 3 is fun, but the side effects are too troublesome and he will now have to spend a minute like this because he spent a minute using it. He hides, but Lucci has already seen him.
Elsewhere, the Straw Hat Pirates allies are scrambling to get out of Enies Lobby.
As the destruction rages on round them, Spandam boasts about the power of his Buster Call. Spandam tries to reason with Franky over Nico Robin, but he mentions Franky's mentor, Tom which trigger Franky's anger. Spandam draws Funkfreed and orders it to give Robin a serious wound so she will not be able to resist later. The elephant sword is stopped by Franky who then calms the elephant's attack through a threat and a reminder of what kind of animal Funkfreed is. Franky remembers why he is doing this and that it is only because of the Straw Hat Pirates he is able to get what he has always wanted; to take out the guy who put Tom away. His anger boils and he throws Funkfreed back at Spandam. Franky proceeds to take out the Marines who are with Spandam. Robin joins in saying she is not alone and has no reason to be afraid anymore.
On the tower, Luffy has been drawn out by Lucci, Lucci boasts about how Luffy should accept his power's weaknesses and let it end now. Luffy attempts to hit Lucci after being pinned against the wall, but his attacks now have no strength against Lucci. He is thrown against another wall, Luffy can only beg his body to return before the next attack kills him, but the damage from Luffy's earlier attack suddenly hits Lucci's legs unexpectedly. Luffy is relieved as his body returns to normal.
In the tunnel below Zoro, Sanji, Chopper, Chimney, Gonbe, Sogeking, Nami and Kokoro have now all been submerged by the water in the tunnel. They attempt to hold their breaths and do something but all is lost. Someone grabs them and pulls them along, and they see an image of a beautiful mermaid. Unfortunately, the dream is shattered when they see the mermaid is actually Kokoro which causes them to all nearly drown out of shock.

Franky and Robin secure the transport ship for their escape. Kokoro then bursts out of the water, yelling for people not to die. The Franky Family, Galley-La foremen, and the giants reach the main gate. They then stop in their tracks when they see that war ships have already arrived. The Marines are boarding the ship, but are ordered by the vice admiral in command to identify their unit, quarter, Marine code, and have a photo ID. All the soldiers are grateful to not die. The ships' cannons, as well as all the guns on board, are being pointed at the escaping pirate collaborators. After securing the Marines, the ships pull back from the shore and start bombarding the island.
Back at the ship by the bridge, Nami, Zoro, Sanji, Usopp, Chopper, Chimney, and Gonbe are all on the deck in a state of shock. Kokoro called the state near-death and wondered what caused it. Franky tells Kokoro it was her. Zoro, Usopp, and Sanji regain consciousness. After seeing Kokoro again, Zoro believes the legend of dugongs being mistaken for mermaids to be true. Usopp does not believe that mermaids have legs. Sanji is in denial about the whole thing. Kokoro explained that mermaids' tail fins split in two when they turn 30, allowing them to live on land. She tells them they will see it once they reach Fish-Man Island. Chopper wakes up.
Sanji sees Robin and tries to hug her, but Nami and Chopper get to her first and hug her so hard that she is actually pushed back, causing Sanji to crash head first into the mast of the ship. Chimney is surprised her grandmother is a mermaid. Chopper then falls over, stiff as a board. Zoro is on the bridge, watching the assault on Enies Lobby. The whole place is on fire. Franky walks up and tells him about the order to not kill Robin. He figures that once the bombarding is done, they will probably double back and try to take her in close combat.
They see smoke coming from near the bridge, and realize that Luffy must still be fighting. They conclude his opponent is Rob Lucci. Usopp suggests lending a hand, but Zoro said it is best not to get involved. There is a brief glimpse of Luffy fighting Lucci.
The Franky Family and the others are still at the main gate. Paulie secures a Den Den Mushi to hear updates about the Straw Hats. Two cannon balls are then shot at the group. They get caught in the blast and fall over the side. The building is collapsing all around Luffy and Lucci. Luffy says he will not stop using his power until Lucci is defeated. The chapter ends with Luffy activating Gear 2.

The assault from the Buster Call continues and Luffy's battle with Rob Lucci rages on. The battleships report that all Marine and World Government personnel are safely aboard. They also report twenty five pirates at the main gate. They also report that those pirates are all dead, much to everyone's shock and horror, and that the only structure not obliterated was the Bridge of Hesitation. When Nami asks if people can just die so easily, Robin replies that humans cannot be seen on a map. She says that the Buster Call is erasing an island from the map, without any hesitation. Franky then yells for Luffy to hurry up.
Back underground, Luffy is fighting Lucci after having activated Gear 2. Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Jet Pistol and blasts Lucci back. Lucci uses Shigan, but Luffy dodges it. They both punch each other but both block each other's punch. Luffy then hits Gomu Gomu no Jet Bullet and hits Lucci in the stomach and follows it up with another Jet Pistol. Lucci then tells Luffy he will teach him the most powerful Rokushiki technique. He clenches his fists and brings them to Luffy's stomach. He uses the technique, Rokuogan, to unleash a massive shockwave on Luffy's body. Luffy compares it to the Impact Dial from Skypiea, only with a greatly amplified power. While Luffy is on the ground, Lucci uses Rankyaku Gaicho, causing an explosion. Chopper muses that it is almost like Luffy knows who he should fight from the start. A soldier reports to one of the vice admirals that they spotted Luffy, and he orders that all ships to make a battle formation around the Bridge of Hesitation.

Luffy and Lucci face each other as the first half of the Bridge of Hesitation. The battleships report Lucci and Luffy's fight on the first prop. The ships then surrounds the rest of the Bridge of Hesitation. One of the Marines on board one of the ships wonders what kind of people the Straw Hats are, as Enies Lobby's reputation had remained intact for 800 years. The Straw Hats then look over by the first prop of the bridge to see that the wall had crumbled to reveal Luffy and Lucci. Luffy looks up and sees his friends, who cheer him on in his fight. Zoro then turns and calls the whole ordeal a game of endurance. Lucci commends Luffy for being right about his friends being alive, but says it would be worth seeing if that is still true in a few minutes. Two ships come along the bridge on either side.
All personnel between the ranks of Captain and Lieutenant Commander are ordered to the front. Looking at all the officers, Zoro and Usopp then realize that Sanji is gone. As they wonder where he is, the order to attack is given. The men jump from the ships and pour onto the bridge. Franky punches a man in the stomach, but he absorbs the blow by transforming his body into balls. Zoro attack another man who blocks his sword attack with his bare hands. Zoro then watches as Yubashiri is turned to rust. Franky warns everyone that some of the attacking Marines have Devil Fruit users among them. Robin takes out several men at once with her Clutch technique, and Nami uses her lightning attacks to electrocute her opponents while Kokoro and Chimney declare themselves hostages.
Zoro, who had procured a cutlass to replace his freshly destroyed sword, tells everyone to hold out until Luffy arrives. Luffy and Lucci are still in a heated battle. Lucci notes that Luffy's Gear 2 technique seems to be losing its power. Lucci tells Luffy that it is impossible for anyone to escape, and that he will pursue Robin to the ends of the earth in the name of Absolute Justice. Luffy tells him that is what they are here to free her from. Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Jet Stamp, Lucci dodges with Soru and then uses Rokuogan, knocking Luffy to the floor. Luffy does not move. Sogeking sees his friend in danger as a Marine tries to attack him. Zoro intercepts the Marine, telling Sogeking to be careful. Sogeking then takes off his mask and calls out to Luffy.

Usopp calls out to Luffy to wake up. The Marines still on the ships are stunned, as the pirates are defeating their captains with ease. Luffy looks up and sees Usopp looking down at him, surprised to see his friend there. Usopp still tries to sound bitter at Luffy, and tells him he only came to rescue Robin and not to see him. Usopp then challenges Lucci to a fight. Luffy tries to tell Usopp not to try and fight him, but Lucci tells him he has no business with someone who has been defeated, and everyone will soon be dead anyway. Luffy tells Usopp not to fight him as he will be killed. Usopp tells Luffy to stand up and stop pretending he is about to die. He then points out that they aren't in Hell yet. Luffy gets up, as the soldiers and Vice Admiral Momonga watch the pirates fight the captains.
Lucci is surprised that Luffy can still move. He then uses Seimei Kikan: Kaijo to bring himself to full power. Lucci uses Shigan "Madara", which Luffy counters with Gomu Gomu no Gatling. Lucci then brings two fists forward and stops them in front of Luffy. Luffy feels determined not to get hit by Rokuogan again, but Lucci uses a technique called Sai Dai Rin: Rokuogan, the most powerful form of Rokuogan. To Lucci's amazement, Luffy is still standing. Luffy then remembers what Aokiji told him about how he would soon regret taking in Nico Robin as part of his crew. He then remembers Robin's involvement in the whole thing from shooting Iceburg up until now. Lucci uses Tekkai, but it is instantly penetrated by Luffy's Gomu Gomu no Jet Gatling. Rob Lucci is punched into and through the wall. Lucci and Luffy land on the ground outside where they were fighting. Lucci is unconscious. Luffy then calls out to Robin that they are going back together, causing her to tearfully smile. The chapter ends with the battleships reporting the defeat of Rob Lucci.

Everyone is shocked by Rob Lucci's defeat. One of the Marines calls him the strongest CP9 leader in the history of Cipher Pol. Nami orders everyone to get on the escape ship. One of the Marines on one of the ships asks a subordinate where a certain noise is coming from. He concludes it is coming from a Den Den Mushi. The voice is from Zambai of the Franky Family. Vice Admiral Strawberry asks if the pirates at the main gate were defeated. A soldier reports that he saw them fall into the ravine below the island.
Thanks to some quick work, Paulie had been able to fashion two nets together out of the rope he had with him, which everyone was holding onto. Kokoro and Gonbe are happy to hear everyone is ok. Franky tearfully tells them he wasn't worried about them. Zoro tells Franky that his relief would not matter if he died. Onigumo orders that the pirates at the gate be left for now. Franky blocks and attack from Sharinguru. A Marine is heard reporting that Luffy is wounded and not moving.
Usopp is urging Luffy to get up. Stretch over to the ship and Usopp would carry him from there. Luffy tells him his body will not move. Nami tells Usopp they can take the ship to Luffy. Right after she says that, the ship is blown up with Kokoro, Chimney, and Chopper still on board. Just then a black leg is seen coming out of the wreckage of the burning ship. Sanji bursts out carrying everyone on board. Sanji explains his absence by saying he had some errands to run. A Marine tries to attack Nami, but gets kicked away by Kokoro. They are now all trapped on the prop with five ships surrounding them with their cannons trained on them.
Nothing can be done to bring Luffy over to them. Everyone is yelling at him to stand up. Sanji asks him if he could do anything at all. A bow cannon from a warship is now pointed directly at Luffy. Usopp then hears a strange voice. Luffy tells him to look below him. The ships declare they will fire simultaneously at Luffy and the others in five seconds. As they are counting down, Usopp tells Robin to drag Luffy's body into the ocean and orders everyone else to jump. He tells everyone they have one crewmate left. Everyone falls as the Going Merry appears in the water below them. The ship tells the Straw Hats she has arrived to take them home.

The Marines are surprised that the Going Merry got past their warships without being seen. Everyone lands in the water. Kokoro tosses Luffy, Robin, and Chopper onto the deck. Zoro tells Nami to give them orders. Luffy tries to thank Robin for saving him from the attack, but she sprouts a hand to cover his mouth and just smiles. She then stands up and thanks everyone for saving her. Zoro tells her to thank them once they get out of there, prompting Sanji to kick him, but is blocked. Nami breaks up the fight by telling Sanji to steer the ship. Spandam gives the order to take out Robin with the Straw Hats, lying to the Marines the order came from Admiral Aokiji. The Marines try to fire at the Going Merry, but somehow accidentally hit another one of their own ship. They then realize that the Gates of Justice are closing without them noticing.
The whirlpools created by the gates closing are overriding the Marines' steering, causing their aim to be off. Usopp is about to ask Sanji if he was behind the gates closing, but Sanji simply tells him this was not the kind of enemy they could simply beat in a fight. They have to outsmart them as well. Zoro then points out that the whirlpools are dangerous for them too. Nami assures them that Merry can cross anything as long as they are on it. A ship right behind them fires at the Going Merry. Zoro and Sanji grab Luffy's arms and legs and catch the cannon balls in his stomach, using his rubber body to slingshot the cannon balls back from where they came, landing a direct hit on the ship behind them. Nami then orders Chopper to turn hard to port at 9 o'clock. They catch the outer edge of a whirlpool and gain speed from it.
Spandam is berating the Marines for having a whole fleet at their disposal yet are unable to take out a single person. Robin sees Spandam and uses Clutch on him to break his spine. Franky then uses Coup de Vent and launches the ship out of range of the Marine ships. Usopp creates a smokescreen and the Straw Hats get away. The Franky Family, Galley-La foremen, and the giants all made it out by getting on the Puffing Tom. Aokiji is watching the whole battle from a distance on his bicycle. The Marines want to go after the pirates, but one of them says that by looking at their ships and the island, it is clear that this is their and Aokiji finishes the thought by saying complete defeat. On the Going Merry, Franky asks the Straw Hats how they could do something so outrageous as burning a World Government flag. Luffy said all they did was take back their friend who was taken from them. They then declare their victory and celebrate.

Luffy and Chopper realize Usopp is missing. Usopp tells Sanji he cannot show his face now that he has come around. Sogeking tells them that Usopp got on another boat, and Zoro still cannot believe they do not realize who Sogeking is. Nami reports that she searched the ship but found no one on board to explain how the Going Merry got to them. They talk about the voice they heard with Kokoro. Chopper is certain that the Ko voice was that of their ship. Just then, Luffy spots a ship up ahead. It's the Galley-La Company's ship with Iceburg and the rest of the shipwrights on board. They are relieved to see that the Straw Hats are alright. Just then, the bow of the Going Merry falls off from the rest of the ship. Someone asks what is going on all of a sudden. Sanji replies that this is not sudden, since their ship was supposed to not be able to go any further. Luffy pleads with the shipwrights to help them. Iceburg tells Luffy the only thing that can be done for their ship is to let her rest. Iceburg then has a flashback to when he heard and found the Going Merry on Scrap Island. She told him she wanted to go out on one last journey. Iceburg then worked tirelessly to fix up the ship as best he could. The other workers tell him a big wave is about to come and he starts to walk away. He then heard the ships' voice thanking him as the wave carried it out to sea. Iceburg calls the ship a miracle that has reached its limit.
The Straw Hats and Franky are then in a lifeboat beside the Galley-La ship. Luffy is in a smaller boat several yards away next to the Going Merry, holding a torch, and asks the crew if they are ready for the Going Merry's Viking burial. Luffy tells the ship that the bottom of the sea is dark, and they will see her off here. Luffy adds that it is best that Usopp is not here, as he probably could not handle this moment. Zoro asks Sogeking what he has to say about it. Sogeking replies that Usopp is ready to accept it. He adds that when men part ways, there should be no tears. Luffy touches the torch to the ship's hull, and the flames engulf it. Luffy thanks her once again for carrying him all this way. Nami looks up and realizes it is snowing. The crew then remember when they first got the Going Merry, when they entered the Grand Line with her, and when they went to and left Skypiea with her. Going Merry then says she is sorry, as she wishes she could only carry the crew a little bit farther. Luffy tearfully tells her that they should be the ones apologizing to her. He tells her that he ripped the sails and drove her into an iceberg, Zoro and Sanji were clumsy and broke things too, and Usopp was never any good at fixing her. Going Merry simply tells them that she was happy. Luffy, Usopp, Nami, Franky, and Chopper are in tears and Zoro, Sanji, and Robin just look onward silently as their ship slowly sinks into the sea.

Two days after the Enies Lobby incident, the Sea Train is seen pulling into Water 7 pulling, along with its normal passenger cars, two flatbed cars filled with lumber. Zoro is on Scrap Island, looking at what remains of his destroyed Yubashiri, and remembers the day he got it. Paulie and the other shipwrights are in the streets of Water 7. He is dividing up the city into sections and giving orders to the different dock divisions as to what parts of the city they are to repair. He then reminds them that they still have normal work hours, so they will have to fix up the city in between shifts. At the northern edge of the city the Franky Family are repairing the Franky House. One of them jokes they will be camping outside again tonight. They tell their King Bulls to rest, as it were Dr. Chopper's orders.
Outside the gate to Dock 1, people are clamoring to meet the Straw Hat Pirates and to apologize for falsely accusing them, including the press. People are also there trying to get pictures and one person is trying to apply for Kalifa's secretary position. Oimo and Kashii are helping put larger pieces of buildings and gates back into place. They tell Usopp, who is sitting on Kashii's shoulder, that they are going to go back to Elbaf since they cannot go to Little Garden and ask him if he would like to go with them. At the Galley-La's temporary headquarters/Iceburg's house, Franky is telling Iceburg that he burned the Pluton blueprints and asks Iceburg what he is drawing.
Iceburg tells him that the day Water 7 sinks into the ocean is getting closer and closer, and is designing a way to make the city float on the ocean. They then get a call on the Den Den Mushi. Zambai excitedly tells Franky that the thing they bought with the 200,000,000 has finally arrived.
The Straw Hats have a section of the house reserved just for them. Kokoro enters with Chimney and Gonbe, and tells Yokozuna to stay outside. She comments on how it is good that everyone is awake now, since they have been asleep for the last two days. She sees Luffy eating and comments on how "The Pirate King" is as active as ever. Sanji tells her that Luffy hates to miss meals after fights, so he somehow learned to eat while asleep. Kokoro tells Nami that the Log Pose should be ready in a few days. Nami, with a very depressed look on her face, says it may be ready, but they cannot go anywhere and that all their money and possessions are gone. Sanji explains how they stored everything in the inn they were staying at.
Kokoro then tells them they have guests who might have something to say about it. They go outside and Nami tackles one of her orange trees in a hug. The men who brought them explained how they took them after they kicked the pirates out, thinking they were assassins. Chopper and Robin come in, having returned from checking the Franky Family's injuries. Chopper reports to Sanji that he did not take his eyes off Robin for a moment and Sanji salutes him. Nami excitedly shows them their newly returned possessions. Franky then enters with Mozu and Kiwi to check in on the pirates.
Franky then tells them the story about a tree in a war-torn country that never fell and people would always go back to it, even if the land was in ruins. He tells them the tree is called Treasure Tree Adam. He goes on to say that the wood from the tree appears on the black market from time to time, but is not cheap. Sanji interrupts, realizing Franky bought the wood with their stolen money. Franky tells them he has the blueprints and the materials necessary to build his dream ship. He asks the crew if they would sail on it when he is finished. The Straw Hats are overjoyed and accept Franky's offer.
Out in the city, Zoro is running frantically, having discovered something problematic, but is lost. In the city harbor is a Marine ship that someone says belongs to Vice Admiral Garp, the legendary Marine who cornered Gol D. Roger. Vice Admiral Garp marches to the front of the temporary Galley-La headquarters, and tells two subordinates in specific to wait outside. Garp breaks through the wall and into the Straw Hats' room.
He asks them if they are the Straw Hat Pirates, and tells them he brought someone he wants Luffy to meet. Everyone prepares to fight, but before they can do anything, Garp bypasses them and punches Luffy's head into the floor, telling him to wake up. To everyone's surprise, Luffy screams in pain. Garp then says that no one can escape his "Fist of Love". He then removes his mask and tells Luffy he heard he had been doing reckless things. Luffy is shocked to see the man behind the mask is none other than his grandfather, and everyone else is even more surprised that Luffy's grandfather is a high ranking Marine.

Garp tells Luffy he owes him an apology. Nami recognizes him as the hero of the Marines. Luffy tells the others not to mess with his grandfather because Garp very nearly killed him on many occasions. Garp claims those incidents were aimed at making Luffy a man.
Sanji recognizes where Luffy's strength comes from. Garp claims he wanted Luffy to be a strong Marine, which Luffy counters claiming he told him he wanted to be a pirate. Garp then claims Luffy was poisoned by Shanks, which Luffy takes to offense to because Shanks saved his life. While Luffy's crew panics over Garp suddenly grabbing Luffy, they find the pair suddenly fall asleep. Garp, being the first of the two to wake up, punches Luffy awake for falling asleep on him, while the others point out Garp did the same.
Usopp and Yokozuna continue to listen in on the event while Garp continues on about Shanks. He explains Shanks is one of the Four Emperors who are on par with Whitebeard who is also a Emperor. Garp tries to explain about the Three Great Powers of the world which, alongside the Four Emperors, include the Seven Warlords of the Sea and the Marines. Robin is surprised that Luffy has a connection with Red Hair.
Zoro is still trying to find the others after hearing the Marines are here to arrest Luffy. Michael and Hoichael show him the way. Zoro causes commotion which attracts Garp's attention. Garp sends two young Marines after him. One stops Zoro with his kukri knives. Another hits Luffy using Soru. Garp laughs as they are defeated by Luffy and Zoro with ease. Luffy's foe stands up and asks Luffy if he knows who he is.
The soldier then introduces himself as Koby, Luffy's friend whom he saved from Alvida, now a very different person in both personality and appearance. Koby is not an officer yet, but he had to greet Luffy when he heard he was nearby. Helmeppo is also with him and has also changed dramatically but grows angry when neither Zoro nor Luffy recognize him until they belatedly recall him as the spoiled son of Morgan. Helmeppo states he cannot forgive them for not knowing who he was.
Garp orders his men to repair the wall he damaged. The men say that Garp should help repair the wall as he destroyed it. Garp explains he did so because he thought it looked cool and agrees after they protest.
As Garp repairs the wall, he asks Luffy if he met his father in Loguetown, Luffy has not a clue as he did not even know he had a father. Garp then announces that Luffy's father is the revolutionary Monkey D. Dragon. There is a sudden shock amongst all those around him, Marine and otherwise. No one knew Dragon had a son, his status as Garp's son and let alone had they heard the full name of Dragon. Luffy wonders why everyone is panicking and who Dragon is. Robin explains to him just who his father is. While most pirates do not try to go against the World Government, the Revolutionaries are building strength and aiming to overthrow them.
Garp turns round and says he shouldn't have spoken, asking them to forget he said anything, causing even more shock amongst everyone.

Garp tells Luffy he will let him go since he is his grandson, and use that as an excuse when he tells the Marines. Bogard tells Garp it would be better to lie and say he got away. Luffy says good bye and Garp punches him, saying he is being too casual to his grandfather whom he has not seen in a while. Inside, Sanji and Robin are discussing Luffy's abnormal family. When Chopper asks where Luffy is, Zoro tells him he is outside talking to Koby. Koby is telling Luffy how he came to the Grand Line through the Calm Belt since Marine Ships are equipped with a special type of mineral called Seastone, spread across the bottom of the hull. It radiates the same energy as the sea, so the Sea Kings ignore it. Nami is at the pool listening in on the conversation using a Black Den Den Mushi. Chimney tells Nami to come swimming with her. Nami loudly tells her to be quiet since they were interrupting her eavesdropping. Koby goes on to say that the one behind this technology is the genius Dr. Vegapunk. Helmeppo adds that Vegapunk knows how Devil Fruits transmit their powers and even found a way to transfer their powers to objects. And this is only in the last few years. Koby and Luffy remember when they first met. Nami smiles and walks toward the pool.
Luffy is disappointed that Koby cannot stay longer and offers him some food. Koby tells him he is Luffy's enemy and cannot get too friendly with him. Koby then tells Luffy the name of the sea beyond the Red Line, in the second half of the Grand Line, the New World, and the only one to reach the end of it was the Pirate King Gol D. Roger. Luffy tells him that next time they meet they will be stronger. Zoro comments on how Luffy makes the strangest enemies. Over at the Galley-La company pool, Sanji announces that the Mizu Mizu meat is grilled. Everyone starts to eat. The Franky Family shows up and Luffy invites them over to eat. They are overjoyed to see a barbeque going on. Sodom and Gomorrah arrive too. They are soon followed by the entire Galley-La company, including Iceburg. Franky, Mozu and Kiwi show up too. Paulie is furious at Nami for wearing such a revealing bathing suit, and Nami reminds him they are at a pool.
Sogeking leads everyone in song and Luffy declares it a party. Everyone is celebrating and having a good time. Off to one side, Robin is standing against a wall while watching the festivities. She then hears a voice that tells her to listen. It is Aokiji, who asks her why she did not just run away this time. She tells him she meant it when she said things would be different this time, she could not just watch her friends die. Aokiji tells her that Jaguar D. Saul was a good friend of his, and he has a duty to see how Robin's life turns out, out of respect for Saul's wishes.
Aokiji asks Robin if she has found a place where she has truly belonged, and Robin tells him she has. Aokiji then tells her to live on, as Ohara still lives on within her. Robin runs behind the wall to catch him, but he is gone. Luffy then calls her over, getting her attention by showing how much meat he can stuff in his mouth. Robin tells him he is the greatest.
The scene changes to Mary Geoise, and one of the Five Elders is told that Shanks and Whitebeard have made contact. The chapter ends with Whitebeard allowing Shanks to come on his ship, say he better have brought some good alcohol with him.

At the Marine Headquarters, all Marines suddenly become alert as news gets out that Shanks and Whitebeard are about to meet. As both pirate ships approach each other, Whitebeard's men announce Shanks is coming. Marco gives the warning to the younger crew members to step back as they "will not last", causing them to question why. They soon get their answer as one by one the weaker crew members collapse unconsciously onto the floor. Marco is unfazed by the situation and ensures the crew not to make a fuss about it, while Jozu notes that Shanks' Haki is as strong as ever.
Shanks apologizes for his actions, since Whitebeard is still an enemy ship he was just being cautious. Marco points out what Shanks has done to him, Shanks turns round and in return asks him to join his crew, which Marco angrily turned down his offer.
Whitebeard pours some sake Shanks has brought over from his hometown in the West Blue and the two recall old times. Whitebeard recalls his days fighting Gol D. Roger and seeing Shanks as an apprentice during their fights along with the funny big nose that Shanks hung around. Shanks counters the memory with his own of the pair splitting up at Loguetown after Roger's death. Whitebeard notes how the fights between Shanks and Mihawk still ring in his ear. When the subject of his missing left arm is brought up, Shanks replies he bet it on the future recalling the memory of Luffy.
The conversation hits a more serious note as Shanks points to his scarred left eye. One of Whitebeard's crew gave it to him, Marshall D. Teach. Shanks has known what Teach has been up to all these years and tries to warn Whitebeard of what may happen if Ace and Teach meet, he begs Whitebeard to stop the search. When Whitebeard outright refuses and states he will teach Teach about morals, Shanks reacts by drawing his sword, stating the rampaging era will not be stopped. Whitebeard and Shanks clash weapons, splitting the skies to the shock of both captains' crew members.
Elsewhere, Blackbeard crew prepares to chase Luffy who has had his bounty raised, and also is nearby. However, they are stopped by Ace who has finally found them.

Franky is at Scrap Island, starting work on the ship. Iceburg arrives and asks if he could help. After asking to look at Franky's design, Paulie, Tilestone, and Peepley Lulu arrive with their tools and offer their assistance, saying they would do anything to help the Straw Hats. Franky is touched by this and hides his emotions by saying they have better not slow him down. At the Franky House, Tamagon holds up a newspaper and says that the events at Enies Lobby are in it. Much to the whole family's surprise, they are not mentioned in the report at all. They are relieved, as now they do not have to run from the World Government.
Back at the Galley-La Headquarters, the Straw Hats are wondering why the Franky Family is so excited. Sanji wonders if Garp used his influence to get all of them identified as innocent bystanders. Luffy disagrees, as Nami and Chopper agree with him. Robin, thinks it might have been Aokiji, but says nothing. Zoro adds that unlike the Franky Family, their actions are described in vivid detail, adding that their bounties will go up for sure. Sanji and Chopper get excited, but Nami does not understand why they are excited. Later, the crew tells Luffy that Franky is making a ship for them since he was asleep when Franky told the rest of them, and Luffy is overjoyed. Nami suggests taking the time to resupply and asks what happened to their 100,000,000. Luffy tells her that it was spent on all the food for the party they had. Nami gives Luffy three huge bruises for acting so casual about spending the money. Luffy is not bothered since they are getting a new ship, while Nami was looking forward to buying new furniture for the ship. Robin tells her they will have to stick with what they have.
The narration says that the ship will take five days to complete, which the crew uses to relax and stock up on supplies. Luffy and Chopper are seen eating Mizu Mizu meat on a Yagara Bull. Luffy thanks Chopper for buying him the meat. Chopper says he was given some money, so he will spend the rest of it on medical books. Zoro is seen trying to buy a sword, but is unsuccessful due to the small amount of money he has. Robin and Nami go clothes shopping, and Robin suggests looking at furniture. Sanji leaves a market pulling a large cart filled with various foods and a keg of sake. Usopp is practicing what he will say when he sees Luffy so he can get back into the crew, going through different situations dialogues, and taking notes on what works. Sanji sees him and wonders what he is doing. Meanwhile, the new ship is coming along nicely. On the third day, the Log Pose locks onto the next island. Kokoro asks if the crew knows what island they are going to next. Nami mentions the needle is pointing down a little.
Kokoro tells them their next destination is the underwater world of Fish-Man Island. Sanji gets abnormally excited, while Nami seems uneasy due to what happened at her village. Sanji then says that Fish-Man Island is one of the landmarks of the Grand Line, home to beautiful mermaids swimming gracefully in the sea. Kokoro looks at him and Sanji says he can dare to dream, and Kokoro tells him there should be young ones there too. Kokoro adds that getting to the island is not that simple, Robin mentions the underwater part of it is a little worrying. Kokoro said that is not the problem. She tells Nami to read the newspaper. Fourteen ships have gone missing in the last month. Kokoro tells them that to get there, they will have to pass through the Florian Triangle. Over one hundred ships a year disappear in that area, when they are found they are empty. Nami and Chopper are terrified while Luffy is excited. Robin mentions that ghost ships are usually linked to treasure, which causes Nami to become suddenly enthusiastic.
Just then, Mozu, Kiwi, and Chimney burst in with exciting news. Their new ship is finished. When they go outside, the rest of the Franky Family is there, out of breath. Zambai tells them that new wanted posters have been printed, and everyone has a bounty. He spreads the posters on the ground at their feet. Everyone except Nami, Chopper, and Sanji look excited to see their new bounties. Sanji never had his picture taken, and the artist's rendering looks nothing like him, Chopper is upset at his low bounty, and Nami does not like having a bounty. They also show them another poster, Franky's. Zambai tells them that if Franky stays on the island, he will be in danger of the government and marines. Zambai then asks Luffy to take Franky with him, and that he was the son of pirates.

Still going over the bounties from the previous chapter, the newest bounty-holding Straw Hats each complain about their current situation: Chopper hates that he got such a low bounty for his actions of Enies Lobby, Nami thought the photographer who took the shot of her was from a newspaper, and Sanji is griping about the horrific drawing that depicted his face. In Sanji's case, the photographer explains to a Marine at Marine Headquarters on how his picture did not develop, merely being criticized for not taking off the lens cap.
Back in Water 7, the Straw Hats discover a collapsed Galley-La crew as well as a cloaked massive object. Luffy yells for Franky, but Iceburg instead wakes, introducing the Straw Hats to their new ship, which he nicknames the "King of All Beasts". The sheet is removed to reveal a massive, brigantine sloop with a lion's head, complete with the various modifications each of the crewmates asked for. After guiding the Straw Hats around, Iceburg explains that Franky would be best for their shipwright as they plan, but he is too attached to the island to do anything about leaving. He suggests that the only way that Franky could leave is if they force him, giving the crew an idea.
At the ruined Franky House, Zambai tries to talk his boss into joining the Straw Hats on their journey, saying that he enjoyed being with them and working on their ship. Franky tries to deny this and stay in his home, and even states that he can fight the Marines if they come for his new bounty. Suddenly, one of the family steals his under and is instructed by the rest to keep it away from their boss as best as possible. Running through Water 7 with nothing on his bottom, Franky tries to get his underwear back while ignoring the chaotic screams and panic from the locals seeing his penis. Eventually, the underwear ends up in Luffy's hands, whom he begins to chase while asking him how they feel about his new ship. The game begins to involve the rest of the Straw Hats until Franky is forced to use a cannon to launch to Scrap Island in pursuit.
Arriving on Scrap Island, Franky sees his ship, which the Straw Hats thank him for once again and he accepts. But then Luffy makes him an offer: he would get his underwear back if he joins the crew.

The scene opens with almost everyone in Water 7 on Scrap Island, telling everyone to shield their eyes and Franky to put his panties back on (in addition to calling him a pervert). Franky demands his underwear from Luffy, but Luffy tells him again that if he wants them back, he will have to join his crew. Franky simply replies that he's not about to leave Water 7 for something like that, because "Even a naked man is great, if he faces the waves like a lion."
Robin then using her powers, tightly grasps Franky's genitals. Franky runs around in great pain as Mozu, Kiwi, Luffy and Chopper react in fear. Despite this, Franky refuses to comply.
Just as Franky begins to explain to the Straw Hats that while he is thankful to them more than he himself can imagine, Iceburg reminds Franky of his words as a child, he had said his "Dream Ship" will not be his dream ship just because he built it based on his blueprints. It has to face the many challenges the sea has to offer, and once that day comes, he will become a shipwright and ride on that ship.
Back in the present, Franky says he changed his mind on what he wants to do, but Iceburg replies that the stuff he's doing on the island is simply compensating for what he wants. He tells him that Tom was taken away so that he could give Franky a new direction to go in. He also reminds him of all the good things he has done in Water 7, although Franky said that the things he was doing he did not think were good. Then Iceburg tells Franky that he forgives him for what he's done, as did Tom, but he tells him he needs to forgive himself.
Franky then begins to cry, shouting, "It hurts! It hurts!" The Franky Family then apologize for their rash behavior. Franky shoos them, saying he decides what he will do with his life, and that he, as a boss, can not follow a path his men prepared for him. Zambai the shouts to him that they were the one how that helped them out, so he should deserve to be happy as well. Franky then bursts into tears, again shouting, "It hurts! It hurts!"
Everyone then tells Robin to stop hurting Franky. Franky, though his tears, tells Robin he will never forgive her for this. Luffy, however, realizes Robin is not the one making him cry. Robin admitted to causing the initial reaction, but says that now Franky is using that as an excuse for hiding the real cause.
Then a flashback of when Zambai first met Franky, including the Square Sisters, and the Franky Family was formed.
Suddenly, Zoro and Sanji come running back to the ship, saying that Luffy's grandfather, Vice Admiral Garp, is approaching. Luffy, confused at first, tosses Franky his underwear, and tells him to hurry up and get on. Franky, saying they'll never be able to fix the ship without a proper shipwright, agrees to join their crew.
Franky then thinks of all the people he's grown up with, before saying good-bye to everyone.

Sanji tells the crew that he saw Usopp recently, and Luffy, Chopper, and Nami decide to go get him back, but Zoro is completely against it. He says that they should not let Usopp rejoin, which angers Chopper and Nami, but Zoro explains that Usopp was the one who started the fight, and lost, and if Luffy is willing to forget all about that and let Usopp rejoin without apologizing for his rebellion, then the whole crew will fall apart. Zoro even threatens to leave if Luffy is going to act like this is just another joke. Nami tries to calm him down, but Zoro angrily slams his sword on the ground, asking if leaving the crew is so easy to do. Zoro then goes on to say that he cannot trust a guy that decides to quit the crew then just come back. He adds that if the first thing he hears from Usopp is an outright apology, then he will let him rejoin but will leave if he makes an excuse. Sanji actually agrees with Zoro and Luffy accepts that he is right.
The scene switches to Vice Admiral Garp's ship, where Koby feels embarrassed that Garp is going to attack Luffy after such a touching reunion. Garp tells him if he wants to complain, then he should complain to Fleet Admiral Sengoku, since he was the one who ordered him to return there. Aokiji is also there, but only because he does not want to ride his bicycle.
Meanwhile, Usopp hurries down the streets of Water 7, going over the different scenarios, thinking he is ready for a grand, warm welcome back to the crew.
Meanwhile, on Scrap Island, the Franky Family say their final farewells to Franky as he boards the ship. Franky notices they are short one member, and Luffy says they are leaving without Usopp. They wait for him to come, but he does not. Luffy says he will remember the good times he and Usopp had together.
Suddenly, Garp shows up around the corner, and announces to Luffy that he is going to die here. Luffy argued that he said he would not attack. Garp simply said he got his orders, and proceeds to attack by throwing a cannonball at breakneck speed at them. The Straw Hats are amazed, but prepare to defend the ship, and start to set sail. Garp then asks for one thousand cannonballs, intending to throw them all at them.
Just then, Usopp arrives, and ware surprised to see that they are leaving without him. He begins to run after them, going off on his great return scenarios, and even admitting he was Sogeking. However, the Straw Hats do not listen, as they are too busy protecting the ship. Usopp tells them he wants to come back and they should be happy, for he is Captain Usopp. He suddenly remembers Luffy saying all this time he was only a burden, and he took back the comment. He tells them to accept him back, since no matter what they are still friends. However, Luffy and Zoro in particular, ignore him, despite Chopper shouting.
Usopp is on his knees now, wondering if this is really good-bye. Then he remembers what he said back at his fight with Luffy and yells out that he is sorry for everything.
He apologizes for everything, and begs to be let back in the crew, tears rolling down his face. Luffy extends an arm, also crying his eyes out, and calls Usopp an idiot, while Zoro (who is actually smiling about this moment) calls Luffy the idiot. Nami also has a joyful tear in her eye, saying they are both fools. And so, with the crew reunited once more, they sail on to their next adventure.

The chapter starts with the Straw Hats trying to escape Garp's attack. Suddenly, the ship withdraws its sails. When asked why, Franky says he has a plan in mind, but not, however, before they decide upon a name. Even though it seems like an inappropriate time, Franky says a ship cannot set sail until it has a proper name. Luffy then comes up with some random names, which all just have animal names stringed together with "Lion", as Usopp points out. Franky said he had an idea, and a flashback occurs back to when the ship was being built.
Iceburg, Paulie, Peepley Lulu, and Tilestone were looking at the lion head, commenting it was a very nice sunflower, although Franky yelled at them, telling them it was a lion's head. Then Franky explained to them how he wanted the ship to be named on its maiden voyage; that way, it would embody the wishes of the pirates riding it. Iceburg came up with "The Sun", to which Franky yelled once again, but Iceburg said if you were a pirate, you'd sail "A Thousand Seas" like "The Sun", it's perfect for the Straw Hats. Franky keeps thinking he's wrong, but Iceburg then suggests the following name: The Thousand Sunny!
Both Luffy and Chopper agreed that the name sounded cool, even cooler than "Dumpling-Gorilla-Lion" (Luffy's next name idea), "Boss Lionel" (Zoro's idea), "Little Darkness" (Robin's idea), and "Monsieur Sunflower" (Sanji's idea); all of which Usopp thought were terrible.
Robin commented the name was wonderful, but Franky is it was only his first name idea; his second name idea was New Battle Franky "Young Champion Lion". Luffy liked Iceburg's name better, and the entire crew agreed that the ship's name will be Thousand Sunny.
Now they just needed to escape from the sight of the Marines. Sanji and Zoro asked if the ship had a secret weapon of some sort, with Franky saying he will be using something known as the "Water Escape". Luffy yelled back to Garp (and Koby, too) that it was good to see them again (Helmeppo felt left out). Garp was beginning to get flustered and threw another cannon ball, but Luffy knocked it out of the way. Luffy said he really had to run, and hoped they'd see each other again sometime. Luffy then said good-bye
to Iceburg and thanked him for the name, then said good-bye to everyone else.
Meanwhile, down below deck, Franky was taking something from several barrels, stating it's time to put the Great Cannon and the Adam Wood into gear!
Garp, however, now had an enormous cannon ball and tossed it at the Thousand Sunny. It seemed like they would be crushed, but then, a giant cannon came out from the back of the ship, and Franky used an attack known as "Coup de Bust" to blast the thousand Sunny up into the sky and out of the way of the cannonball. As the sailed through the sky, Franky said he used Cola to make the ship fly into the sky, something their previous ship, the Going Merry did as well, and also added that the Thousand Sunny will pick up the torch of that ship. The Straw Hats got away, the Marines pointed out, but Garp just laughed, stating that that is his grandson.
Meanwhile, back in Water 7, Oimo and Kashii were relaxing, saying they will wait until the King of Snipers (Sogeking) returns. They did not mind waiting, since their lifespan is 300 years. Meanwhile, Paulie, Lulu, and Tilestone decided to head back to the shipyard and get back to their old jobs, Kokoro, Chimney, and Gonbe headed back to the Sea Train station, and the Franky Family were offered jobs at Galley-La by Iceburg (who was now called the Franky Family's new bro/aniki).
Meanwhile, on an island somewhere in the Grand Line, Smoker had just caught a pirate worth 50,000,000, although he did not find it that hard and just wished he could get some rest. Tashigi, who was now called a sergeant, came up to him and told him that Headquarters called, telling him about their award ceremony for the Crocodile incident at Arabasta or so she thought. She was actually talking to a random Marine soldier because she did not have her glasses on. Smoker did not seem to care, saying that what the marines need is blood; they need a group stronger than the Straw Hat pirates. Then he bet his pride that he will crush them, in "The New World"!
Meanwhile, in Arabasta, King Cobra, Igaram, Chaka, and Pell had just heard about the incident at Enies Lobby. They were all surprised to hear that Luffy had actually helped "Miss All-Sunday" (Nico Robin). They told Vivi expecting her to be upset over this notion. However, it turned out that Vivi did not mind hearing that story at all; she wasn't even shocked. She just said there was no way to know just what is inside Luffy's head.
Meanwhile, on the Thousand Sunny, the Straw hats were celebrating; to the return of Usopp and Robin, a new crewmate (Franky), and a new ship. They knocked their drinks together with joy, Luffy shouting "To Fish-Man Island!"

The chapter starts out in the Baratie, where the cooks there had just found out about the incident at Enies Lobby. Zeff shows Sanji's bounty to the others, who immediately break out laughing. They then start handing out free wanted posters of their "ex-Head Chef", bragging that Sanji the Black Leg grew up there to their customers.
The scene switches to Foosha Village, where nearly everyone is celebrating Luffy's new high bounty. The mayor of the village, Woop Slap, however, is not the least bit pleased by Luffy's latest actions. Makino comments that their pet looks cute, and that Luffy has found some good friends. Woop Slap calls them a pack of weirdos, and could not believe that they waged war on the World Government. Woop Slap grumbles to himself, questioning why Garp has not done anything to prevent this. He continues to say all three generations of Luffy's family are screwed up, and wonders if Dadan knows anything about this.
The scene then switches to Syrup Village, where Ninjin, Tamanegi, and Piiman are showing Kaya Sogeking's wanted poster. They all immediately recognize that it is really Usopp, because of his long nose. The Usopp Pirates talk about how the mask looks cool, and how no one else would believe it was truly Usopp, and how only they and Kaya know. Kaya leaves, saying if she wants to be a famous doctor, so that she may treat Usopp if he should be hurt when he comes back, she will need to continue studying hard. The Usopp Pirates say that their captain is lucky, and that he had better not hurt Kaya.
The scene then switches to Zoro's Dojo in Shimoshiki Village, where students and pupils are asking Zoro's sensei, Koushirou, if he really taught Roronoa Zoro swordsmanship. He says yes, but he tells him they shouldn't follow in his footsteps. The students complain, because they think Zoro is cool. Koushirou then thinks to himself that he did not know why he invaded Enies Lobby, but he knows that he could not stop Zoro if he had tried. As long as he values his skills as a swordsman, then he should continue to follow his dream.
The scene then switches to Cocoyasi Village, where everyone is commenting on how sexy Nami is. Nojiko reminds them that's supposed to show she is wanted by the World Government, as she brings a sack of Mikan to Genzo. Genzo was just protesting to the local Marine Base for distributing Nami's picture, saying it will attract more perverts than bounty hunters. Nojiko says it's fine, though, since the Straw Hat Pirates kept their promise (Genzo told Luffy that if he ever took away Nami's smile, he'd kill him). Genzo reluctantly agrees, though he still does not approve of the poster.
The scene then switches to the new Sakura Kingdom, where Dr. Kureha is traveling down the mountain on a Lapahn. When she reaches the village at the bottom, she demands to see Dalton and ask why he called her down. She also asks why he stays in the village, seeing as he's the king, he should be living in the Drum Castle. He says he loves the village and likes living there, and then shows Dr. Kureha the new wanted posters, including the one of Chopper. Dalton thinks they might have made a mistake with his bounty, but Dr. Kureha is just glad to see his face.
Meanwhile, on the island of Baltigo, the Revolutionaries just received news of their victory in Centaurea in the South Blue. They then move to the issue of the Straw Hat Pirates. It seems they know Luffy defeated Crocodile, and now after the incident at Enies Lobby, they will be problematic to the World Government. One man, the apparent leader of the band, leaves for a moment. It is revealed that that man is none other than Monkey D. Dragon; the world's most wanted man. He says the day will soon come when he and Luffy will meet, face-to-face.
The scene then goes back three days ago, back on Banaro Island, where Portgas D. Ace has finally caught up with Blackbeard. Blackbeard calls him Commander, but Ace tells him to save it. Blackbeard continues to act friendly, saying it has been a long time since they have seen each other, but Ace reminds him that he killed one of his crewmates, and doing so is unforgivable. Blackbeard then offers Ace to join his crew, saying they'd be invincible if he joined. He then goes on to say that the reign of Whitebeard will soon end, and their first step is Monkey D. Luffy. He suggests Ace coming with him to kill Luffy (as he is still in Water 7 at the time), but Ace says that Luffy is his brother, and outright refuses to join his crew.
Suddenly, a bullet passes through Ace; Van Augur had just tried to shoot Ace. Ace uses Higan and shoots fire bullets rapidly at Van Augur. Suddenly, Jesus Burgess tosses an entire house at Ace, but Ace uses Enkai, then Fire Pillar to burn it up. Blackbeard yells at Augur and Burgess telling them Ace is way out of their league, and therefore, they should fall back. But suddenly, Ace uses Hiken to burn Blackbeard to a crisp. Blackbeard manages to survive the attack and gets up. He then admits of what he had done to Thatch, Commander of Whitebeard Pirates' 4th Division. He says he had no choice, as he had the Devil Fruit he had been searching for. He had researched the size and shape of the fruit, and recognized it, knowing it was the one. He then goes on to say he spent decades on Whitebeard's ship, because he knew he had a better chance of finding it there. He waited there for too long until it finally came to him in his "friend's" hands. He said that getting the Devil Fruit was his fate, and with it, he will be the greatest. His hand begins to dissolve into darkness, as he said that even for a Logia, this fruit is very special. His whole body begins to radiate in a black glow, as he says that he is "darkness".

On Banaro Island, Portgas D. Ace and Marshall D. Teach face off. Ace questions Teach's Devil Fruit abilities, but Teach states that his fruit, the Yami Yami no Mi, is said to be the strongest of the Devil Fruits, and that Ace cannot kill him. Meanwhile, the townspeople see black smoke in the town, and note that the pirates are still present, so they should run. The rest of the Blackbeard Pirates are fleeing, saying that Teach is about to go wild.
Blackbeard sends tendrils of darkness in every direction, enveloping the buildings and scaring the escaping townspeople. Some citizens say that the smoke reminds them of a hole in the ground, but they continue through the forest and out to the coast. Teach explains that his darkness is infinite gravitation that sucks everything in, including light. Ace comments that the darkness is not approaching him, but Teach states that he is not attacking yet, and is merely demonstrating. Suddenly, Teach activates his "Black Hole" and sucks all of the town's contents, including its buildings, into his darkness, making it disappear. Teach states that the darkness will draw in any object and crush it, and proceeds to tell Ace that he will show him the town in its ruined form. Teach then uses "Liberation" to send the ruined pieces of the town flying out into a ring around Ace and Teach. The civilians are stunned by the destruction of their town, but Teach simply brags about his ability. However, he realizes too late the small spots of flame from Ace's "Hotarubi" which explode, coating him in flame. While Teach rolls around in pain, trying to put the fire out, Ace states that he understands the power of the Yami Yami no Mi, but says that if Teach is a Logia user, he should have been able to avoid his attack. The darkness quickly absorbs the flame, and teach stands, saying that his fruit can suck in everything, including punches, thunder, flame, and especially pain, meaning he cannot fend off attacks like other Logias. Disregarding this flaw, Teach states there is one more thing he can do, and proceeds to drag Ace towards him with gravitation. Seizing Ace's shoulder, Teach states that Ace must have noticed the ability, and punches Ace hard in the stomach.
Ace is sent flying as Teach comments on how long it must have been since Ace was last punched. Teach explains that he can suck in the "Devil's power" so that while he is touching a Devil Fruit user, they cannot use their powers. Teach states that he has gained a power that cannot be defended against by Devil Fruit users that overrate their abilities, to which Ace replies that is only if he is caught. Teach states that Ace cannot escape, and drags him forward with his gravity again. Ace launches two flaming spears that pierce and burn Teach's chest, but Teach lands a powerful punch that nearly breaks Ace's neck. Crossing his fingers, Ace fires a flaming cross, but Blackbeard merely grins. As explosions sounds out, Van Augur comments that he had thought that a Devil Fruit user would be weak and powerless without his ability, but that Ace's basic fighting power is amazing and had earned him a spot as Whitebeard's division commander, which is another one of fate's crossroads. The civilians watch as their island is destroyed and Banana Rock falls, stating that no human could do this damage and that their entire island is at risk.
Ace falls as Blackbeard states that nothing stands a chance in front of darkness, and offers Ace a spot on his crew, as it would be a waste of his strength if he was lost. Ace refuses, saying that if he gives in, there will be no point in living. Teach laughs, saying that survival is what matters in the world, as Ace gathers fire around him before forming it into a large flaming orb. Teach states that only one of them can win, as Ace states his desire to make Whitebeard the king. Their attacks collide with no shown result, the only hint being Ace's trademark hat lying on the ground. This incident is described as the trigger for a later event coming soon.

On board the Thousand Sunny, Usopp and Luffy stuff the latest catch, a shark, into the ships fish tank. Franky, Robin and Sanji sit in the tank room, they witness the entry of the shark into the tank. Usopp and Luffy come rushing in to find the tank is now empty aside from the shark, the others point out their error in not considering the food chain. While they argue over when it should be cooked with Luffy, Nami comes out of the baths on board Sunny. Chopper relaxes in the medical room while Zoro keeps a sharp eye in the crow's nest.
Zoro spots something floating in the sea and calls to the others. It is a barrel with the word "treasure" on it. Anxious, the crew bring it on board to see what's inside. Nami asks if it has some text to sea Gods written on it. Barrels are sometimes sent out to sea as a form of prayer for a safe journey. They talk about opening it up but Usopp resisted it by saying it will be a curse and finally Luffy opens it. As the barrel is opened a something shoots into the air. The crew are startled, the barrel contained a flare. Robin concludes it as Flash Bullet, while Zoro makes fun of it as curse that is mentioned by Usopp earlier.
The crew reacts to the news, Nami takes control of the situation and orders everyone to get ready - a storm is on its way and fleets the ship towards south-east. The storm hits as predicted, the ship does not fare well against the strong headwind, until Franky unleashes the Sunny's Soldier Dock System, Channel 0.
Out of the storm, the crew enter a dark foggy area of sea where it seems to be nighttime all the time. The crew have entered the famous Florian Triangle in the Grand Line. Usopp reacts cowardly; he was the only one who did not hear Kokoro's story about the Triangle. Sanji lights up his face with a match to make him look scary as he retells the information Kokoro spoke of.
The crew hears a scary sounding song "Yohohoho..." and a huge ghost ship appears which frightens everyone (except Robin). As the song continues to come out, Usopp tells them not to listen or they will be cursed. Suddenly, a figure is spotted on board the ship - there is a skeleton on board drinking tea. Sanji, Luffy and Nami climb up to the ship, Luffy comments he could have gone alone but the others did not want him to have the crew cursed through his stupidity. They meet the skeleton on board, who introduces himself as a gentleman skeleton Brook.
The skeleton welcomes them and then spots Nami, he asks if he can see her underwear and gets knocked down for his perverted request. Luffy asks him if he can poop, Sanji cannot see the point of asking him about that. Sanji starts asking questions about the current situation but before he can answer, Luffy asks Brook to join his crew, which Brook replies "yes" to.

After unexpectedly accepting Luffy's invitation to join the Straw Hat Pirates, Brook boards the Thousand Sunny, where he is greeted by the anger and fear of the rest of the crew. Brook continues to ask Nico Robin and Nami to show their panties (which Nami stops) while Usopp tries to imagine that talking skeletons do not exist. Brook is invited to dinner and marvels both at the ship and the actuality that he has not had a meal in a long time (even with no stomach to digest it). Yet while claiming to be a gentleman, the skeleton acts up on wanting to eat, angering Sanji as well. He does eventually become cordial with the crew before dinner is finally served.
After dinner, Brook explains that he holds the power of the Yomi Yomi no Mi: though he was once part of a living crew, he and all of his crewmates were annihilated and the fruit's power, which originally merely made him unable to swim, let his soul come back after his death. But because of the fog, his body had decayed when he finally returned, leaving him to live as a skeleton (but still with his afro hairstyle due to his "strong roots"). Nami remains doubtful of the story and decides to use a mirror to prove he is a ghost. But when Brook looks in the mirror, no reflection appears. Similarly unusual, the skeleton did not have a shadow as well.
After trying to avoid the subject, the skeleton explains that his shadow was stolen, preventing him from living in the sunlight and forcing him to remain in the shadow and fog of the Florian Triangle or else he would be burned away into nothingness. Yet even in dire circumstances, Brook remains upbeat about his life, due to finally meeting people and remedying his lonely existence on his own ship. However with his happiness, Brook turns back on his ideas of joining the Straw Hats, stating that he cannot join unless he gets his shadow back. Luffy tries to ask to help, but Brook refuses again, knowing that they will not meet the "shadow stealer" but he could be a trump card if they do encounter "him".
Changing the subject again, Brook pulls out a violin and prepares to play a tune, exciting Luffy that he was a musician. But before he could start, a ghost appears directly in front of Brook, scaring him witless. Soon the Sunny is shaken as it is pulled within the gate of the wandering island of Thriller Bark, drawn to them after their encounters with the barrel. Nami notes the Log Pose did not response to the island, but the skeleton explains that the island is from West Blue. Joyful at the arrival on the island, Brook hops on top of the ship and gives his farewells while telling them to turn around and get away from here before zooming off on top of the water due to his light frame. While the other Straw Hats seem to want to heed the skeleton's warning, Luffy merely smiles, telling them that he wants to go to the island.

The Straw Hats are confused by their new predicament, captured by the massive island of Thriller Bark within a massive pair of lips and watching the ghost disappear back to its "home". Robin realizes that the mechanism for the island is locked with the Thousand Sunny approaching the island that Brook had been running towards. Everyone is scared or confused about going to the island, except for Luffy, who just wants to go out and catch the earlier ghost. Sanji and Robin bring Luffy his important "Pirate Bento", with Robin being one of the few interested in their latest escapade.
With no stopping them, Franky decides to further explain the Soldier Dock System in regards to their new ship and the potential both held within and what could be held later. When they are asked to open it on Channel 2, they reveal Mini Merry II, their former Going Merry, resurrected as a shopping ship. Nami, Usopp and Chopper ride on it while Franky explains the further usage of the Soldier Dock, including a Waver and some submarines and the empty potential within Dock 4.
A while after setting off, Mini-Merry does not come back as Nami unexpectedly screams from the island, with the remaining Straw Hats unable to trace them from the ship. Suddenly, Sunny's anchor drops by itself and an invisible being boards onto the ship by way of the hatch. The being messes around, first with Luffy's face and Zoro's swords while making sounds of a beast. Fearing the unknown, Sanji tries to leave the ship but is thrown back on it instantly. But "the invisible creature" makes its weirdest attack towards Robin, attempting to grab and lick her. The beast pushes the ship away as it leaves, with the Straw Hats continuing to fight on whether to go off to save the others or not.
The Mini Merry trio, meanwhile, run ashore and land directly on Thriller Bark. Nami tries to apologize but gets none of it from Usopp and Chopper's fear. Yet before being able to regroup too easily, the trio encounter a large Cerberus, a creature with two dog heads and the head of a fox. The trio flees, terrified and perplexed by the beast, with Chopper further enraged by its fox head. Running up a flight of stairs, the trio end up in a forest where they attempt to hide from the Cerberus. But hiding in a tree, they instead encounter Hildon, a bat-like creature trying to find the monster chasing them. Hildon offers to ride in a prepared carriage to the mansion of a doctor named Hogback, a name Chopper immediately recognizes.

Nami, Usopp and Chopper travel in the carriage provided by Hildon with bizarre horsemen to reach the home of Doctor Hogback. Hildon acts hospitable by offering wine to the guests while Usopp remains paranoid that other creatures like the Cerberus would come after them. Chopper, though, gloats about the genius surgeon praised as one of the greatest in the world prior to his mysterious disappearance and Hildon's confirmation he is on the island. Nami is more intrigued by the inhabitants of the forest, believing she sees a lion only to see it with a grotesque man's face.
When Nami tries to convince Usopp and Chopper what she saw, the trio look out and see the entire forest, complete with trees, animals and even ghosts partying. Yet on second glance, everything becomes still and the trio doubt what they've seen. Nami asks Hildon to stop the carriage after seeing such bizarre things, but the creature tells them they merely saw illusions within the forest. Though Nami wants to go back to the coast to meet up with the rest of the crew, Chopper wants to continue on to Hogback. Usopp uses his own cowardly logic to convince Chopper it is not worth it and thus convincing Hildon to tell the carriagemen to stop.
Ten minutes after stopping, the trio realize that they neither have moved forward or back but have been abandoned in the middle of a graveyard. With their fear rising, Usopp yells for Hildon yet unknowingly he flies off while even the carriagemen abandon them. Before wondering too long about their predicament, the trio are horrified to see dead corpses rising from the ground: Nami, Usopp and Chopper had been left with an army of zombies! The trio is soon thrown out of their carriage and fear getting bitten and turned into zombies themselves. Yet as the trio fight back, they soon see how the zombies are a tad abnormal, watching them comedically bounce around their heads and complain as Usopp tries to use a fire attack to burn them away. With nothing left to do but run (due to their speediness of the undead), they finally outrun the zombies due to their lack of endurance.
The trio seem to question why the zombies were on the island, but they soon find themselves in front of a massive building: Doctor Hogback's mansion.

Entering the mansion of Dr. Hogback, Usopp, Nami and Chopper continue to question the peculiar nature of their surroundings, including the tunnels and courtyard past the front door. As they approach a well lit by a spotlight, an eerie, sewn up woman emerges, welcoming and then immediately throwing plates at them. The woman allows Nami and Chopper entry but continues throwing plates at Usopp. A voice tells "Cindry" that Usopp can also be allowed in, explaining the cause of Cindry's hatred of plates to the three Straw Hats. The speaker introduces himself as the genius Dr. Hogback before arguing further with Cindry over the plates. Chopper is immediately in awe but the others are forced to follow along to avoid any further zombies.
Inside Hogback's dining room, Nami tries to explain their predicament and about the zombies outside. The doctor claims that he vanished from the public and came to Thriller Bark to study the zombies and continue to understand the matters of life and death. Chopper remains starstruck about meeting the famed doctor and asks to see Hogback's lab, but he states that it is off limits to all of them. Eating a serving of pudding (without plates), Usopp further asks about sightings of any living skeletons like Brook. Hogback suspects something but refuses to state what.
After eating, Nami decides to take a shower while Usopp and Chopper stand guard (with Usopp questioning why they are guarding her). The trio decide to remain in the mansion in hopes that Luffy and the others will get through the zombies outside and rescue them. At the same time, Nami notes that even inside the mansion, there are stitched up zombies, proving Hogback knows more than he's letting on.
Before she can figure things out further, Nami hears a growl within the bathroom. An invisible voice notes Nami's intelligence before grabbing her and pinning her against the bathroom wall. The voice admires the navigator's weakness and declares she will be his "bride". Usopp rushes into the bathroom to rescue her, happy but confused at the situation. Chopper locates the intruder by smell and Usopp fires a Gunpowder Star, but the intruder escapes. None of them knew what had happened but Nami guesses that the visitor was "an invisible man".
Back on the Thousand Sunny, the remaining crew realizes that they are completely stuck in a spider web with nowhere to go. Luffy decides that since they cannot go anywhere, they might as well go onto Thriller Bark as well. Within moments of arriving on the island, the crew encounter Cerberus. Compared to the earlier trio, the group reacts very differently, from Franky and Zoro's immediate belligerence, to Robin's commenting on its cuteness, to Luffy just wanting to eat it. The creature does not take it well.

The Cerberus creature becomes very excited around the Straw Hats, and Zoro wonders why it is so energetic, wanting to deal with the creature with the use of force. However, Luffy wants to try to tame it, and as Zoro expresses his doubts, Luffy holds out his hand to the creature. Suddenly, it pounces on him and bites his head, but Luffy calms it and has it let go of him. However, he quickly retaliates by punching it in the face and knocking it unconscious. Robin says that it is strange that something so wounded could still be alive, and Sanji wonders if it even is alive. Luffy rides the tamed creature into the forest, calling out for Nami, and Robin pities the creature, though Zoro tells her that it hurts its pride. Suddenly, Luffy sees a tree with an old man's face having a drink with a unicorn, which bewilders him. Franky catches the unicorn and he himself catches the tree and asks it to join his crew, much to Zoro and Sanji's discontent.
At Doctor Hogback's mansion, Hogback recovers from the earlier ruckus and asks Absalom what he was doing. Absalom says he was looking for a bride, and that Nami would suit him perfectly. Hogback replies that he cannot have her since she has a bounty on her head, and Perona reveals that there are six people with bounties, with Luffy having one of 300,000,000. Hogback takes interest in the amount and prepares to go all out to capture the pirates, saying that Absalom will be busy tonight.
Inside the mansion, Usopp questions the possibility of there being an invisible man, and Nami says that Usopp must have noticed him when she was being held up, but Usopp denies seeing anything in order for Nami to not charge him for seeing her naked. Usopp remarks in disbelief about all the paranormal creatures they have seen, and wonders how they can all be back from the dead when a skeleton already had a Devil Fruit allowing him to do that. Usopp says that there must be a natural explanation for this, and Chopper replies that this must be why Doctor Hogback left his old life to come here. Nami questions this, but Chopper angrily says that he is a great man and there is no proof he is allied with the zombies. However, Nami is still suspicious. They return to the dining room, but Hogback and Cindry are gone. Hildon suddenly chimes in from the chandelier that they have already gone to bed, and Usopp gets angry at him for abandoning them earlier in the graveyard. Hildon says that he was just off with the horses, but Nami shouts that he is lying, claiming that everyone on this island is in cahoots. Hildon scoffs at the notion and guides them to their rooms, but Nami and Usopp are suspicious about where he will take them and Chopper wants to see Hogback again.
Suddenly, a portrait begins talking to Hildon, laughing at the Straw Hats' distrust of him and wondering whether they should be allowed to escape. Chopper is shocked that the picture is talking, when it suddenly leaps out and screams that they will not let the pirates go home, which causes Chopper to scream in fright. Nami and Usopp are shocked as the portrait zombie pulls Chopper into its portrait, and a pig's head hanging on the wall suddenly throws a sword at Usopp. The head introduces itself as Buhichuck, the zombie boss of the room, and says they will not be able to leave. Suddenly, the bear rug shouts in pain at Buhichuck's sword stabbing it, and rises off the ground, taking Nami and Usopp up with it. Usopp screams in fright at the zombies in the room, and he jumps onto the chandelier as Nami lands back on the ground. The zombies in the portraits tell the rug-bear to knock Usopp off the chandelier, but Usopp throws a candle underneath the rug-bear's head, causing it to become frightened as it desperately tries to stamp the fire out. One of the portraits screams in fright at the fire and shouts to extinguish it, and Usopp, now knowing the zombies' weakness, throws candles at them as he prepares to escape with Nami and Chopper. They try opening the door as the zombies come for them, but realize that it is locked, and they hurriedly dodge an attack by the rug-bear. They desperately try to escape, but are cornered at the fireplace, when suddenly the back of the fireplace spins around and they fall into another room.
The three of them find themselves in a hallway, and on the other side, the zombies are shocked that the pirates found the secret passageway and are now in the hallway heading to Hogback's lab. They try to chase them, but the door is blocked from the other side. However, Buhichuck tells them not to get worked up, as there are Surprise Zombies like them all over the mansion. Inside the hallway, the Straw Hats run as they are attacked by more portraits, and they manage to escape into a room. They are then surprised to see that the room has several portraits of Cindry on its walls.

Inside the castle Usopp, Nami and Chopper examine the room, which appears to belong to Cindry. On the walls are photos of a different Cindry to the current one. Nami picks up a newspaper and begins to read it. She discovers Cindry in her previous life had been a very famous actress and child prodigy. She then discovers that Cindry had fallen to her death after falling off the stage. Then Nami, to her horror, discovers that Cindry had died more than 10 years ago. This also horrifies Usopp and Chopper, both forming the conclusion that the undead beings on Thriller Bark were indeed zombies. Usopp states that he was getting a bad feeling and tries to sit down on a box but misses and falls onto the ground.
Nami, suddenly delighted at the prospect of a "super strong box", asks Usopp to open it. Usopp opens the box, only to be a jack in the box, saying that this box was not the treasure box. The trio flee the room, going through the hall with pictures. Nami then gets the brainwave that the jack in the box had said "this is not THE treasure box".
A lone man wanders through the corridors of the castle. Two pictures attempt to get him but soon stop themselves, saying "It's THAT man" and resume their places. The man states that he would capture the intruders and laughs a lot like Brook.
Outside, Sanji argues that they could not recruit anyone they wished for the Straw Hat Pirates. He states that they have a reindeer and a robot. Outraged at the prospect of being called a robot, Franky begins arguing with Sanji, saying he is a cyborg and that he is based on a human. Sanji yells that Franky was based on a pervert and the cyborg pirate takes this with a laugh, thanking Sanji for the "compliment". Luffy is seen singing on the three-headed dog. Robin then brings the subject of the monsters in Thriller Bark, saying that all of the monsters had bandages, stitches and a number imprinted on the side. Zoro agrees, noticing the number "82" on the side of the three-headed dog.
A ghost appears which gets Luffy excited. The ghosts, saying "negative", multiply, exiting Luffy even more. Luffy attempts to catch one to keep, only to fail. Franky shoots one, only to go straight through. The ghost runs through Franky. At that point, Franky loses the will to live and grows depressed, only to get yelled at by Sanji. Luffy tries to catch a ghost barehanded, only to have it go straight through, also making him depressed.
Robin comes up with a conclusion, saying that when the ghost touched a person, they lose the will to live. Zoro calls them a disgrace, that they did not try to train their spirits to be strong and no mastery over their mind. He states that it wasn't a surprise they fell for the "poltergeist trick". A ghost runs through Zoro, also making depressed, ironically. Robin wonders about Thriller Bark, calling it mysterious. Revitalized, Franky and Luffy start bad-mouthing the ghost while Sanji mocks Zoro for his "mastery of the mind". They pass on through a graveyard, where Luffy wanted to eat his lunch, only to be stopped by Sanji.
Suddenly, a hand comes out of the ground and then the top half of a zombie. Luffy simply walks over and shoves the zombie back into the ground. The zombie gets up again, saying "Do you think I would just go back home you moron?!!!". Luffy studies the zombie, concluding that he was "badly wounded". Franky, Zoro and Sanji yell at Luffy that it was a zombie. Zombies rise up from the ground, doing dances in the air, preparing to fight the pirates. The Straw Hats accept the challenge, getting ready to fight.
The five use a combo move called 600,000,000 Jackpot, defeating all the zombies. They all kneel down in front of Luffy, scared that the Straw Hats would attempt to hurt them once more. Luffy asks if Nami, Usopp and Chopper had passed through. The zombies state that they could not answer the question under orders. Luffy finds out that they indeed passed through the graveyard and once again asks if the zombies touched them. They all reply with a no. Luffy asks again and one zombie rats out another, shocking the latter. Luffy, Sanji, Zoro, Franky and Robin all leave the graveyard, leaving the zombies stuck in the ground upside down.
A zombie calls out, saying that he had a story to tell. Luffy states that he was badly injured. Franky, Sanji and Zoro shout at Luffy that it was a zombie. However, this "zombie" reveals himself as a badly wounded old man. The old man continues, saying that he had a certain task for the Straw Hats, that he would be grateful if his shadow was returned to him and the perpetrator was stopped from his ill doings. Luffy relates this story to Brook's and the old man states that a man named "Moria" had taken his shadow. Robin, suddenly interested, asks if the name was "Gecko Moria". Luffy asks why this was so important. Robin states that Moria had a bounty exceeding Luffy's, and that Gecko Moria was one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea.

Luffy confirms with Robin with that Gecko Moria is indeed a Warlord of the Sea, as the crew is astounded that someone of his stature would be in a place like this. Although the old man before them is not able to confirm any of Moria's motives, he informs the crew that there are many more victims like himself in the forest. He cites that the fact the Straw Hats received an invitation here as proof that Moria has likely set his eyes on the crew. The old man states that the other victims hide in the dark of the forest, afraid of the zombies, afraid of leaving for the open sea and being exposed to the sun. He states that just once before he dies, he'd like to be able to walk in the sunlight again. Franky bursts into tears upon hearing the old man's story, causing Zoro to admonish him for being so compassionate and burdening himself so easily. Sanji tells the old man that only ladies have the privilege of persuading others by tears, and to not get carried away. Luffy however comforts the man as he points out that they were already looking for the person who steals shadows, so if he's targeting them, they are going to defeat him eventually anyway. As the old man expresses renewed hope, the other victims in the shadows shout words of encouragement to the crew, annoying Zoro that they were listening the whole time.
At Dr. Hogback's lab, Chopper, Usopp, and Nami stealthily peak into the room after hearing his laughter. He is reveling at his latest creation, an incredibly large zombie on his operating table, as he tries to get Cindry to appreciate his work. Cindry states that she hopes it dies as soon as it wakes up, causing Hogback to note that her comments are growing increasingly depressing. Cindry has prepared dinner, "soup spaghetti", though it makes a mess of the table, to Hogback's dismay. Cindry says she wishes plates ceased to exist. Hogback appears to understand, but wonders why she doesn't choose a more suitable menu. Nami, Chopper, and Usopp watch the antics from their hiding spot, still in disbelief at Cindry's presence due to having just learned of her death ten years ago. The body laying on Hogback's table piques their interest, as Chopper notes its similarities to the zombies they saw earlier in the graveyard. He takes careful notice of the number on the body, and that Hogback said it was "almost done". Nami deduces that this must be how the zombies are reanimated, and Dr. Hogback is responsible for them all. Chopper is perplexed by this, stating that the practice of medicine is all about saving people from dying, and there's nothing you can do to a dead body to bring it back to life. Usopp however points out that thinking about it and understanding it are two different things, so as long as they continue to watch, they should be able to figure out the secret. Someone appears behind them laughing, saying that if they're looking inside, they may as well enter. Recognizing the laugh, they initially believe it is Brook. They suddenly crash through the door into Hogback's laboratory however, greatly shocking him. Chopper and Nami discuss that unlike Brook, the figure they saw had flesh and bone, while Usopp alerts them that Hogback has discovered their presence. Hogback asks just what they saw, reminding them that he said to never peek in his lab. Usopp says they didn't see anything, especially the zombie he was creating. Hogback laments that they probably have already discovered some of his secrets, but he brushes this off as he informs them that the "night attack" will commence soon.
In the graveyard, several zombie corpses begin to emerge from the ground, as an invisible figure calls on them to rise. The person gives them a speech reminding them that they are dead, and as such, feel no pain. Some of the zombies note that this routine is tiresome, to which the person tells them to stop slacking off. He asks the zombies who he is, to which they reply, "Absalom". As more of the figure's body becomes visible, he asks them who likes to "peep". They state  him, as their leader, but he grows annoyed that they also point out his perverted nature.
The ghost spirits that were in the "Dead Forest" earlier return to a large mansion, where they are greeted by a large bear-like creature. A shadowy figure expresses annoyance at the bear, telling him that if he isn't "cute", then he doesn't deserve to work for them.
As the clock hits midnight, three zombies run frantically through the hallways of the mansion announcing that the "night attack" has begun, and seek to wake up their master Moria. One who carries a bow and arrow, known as Nin, fires an arrow that pierces a bubble. A gigantic figure is revealed to be laying down in front of them, who awakens stating that he had a nightmare. The three zombies note that Moria has slept for all four days since their last attack, but nonetheless, the "meals" are prepared. They state that the prey this time is a tough bunch, as they are the group that brought down Enies Lobby. For this reason alone, they believe the group should be useful to Moria.
Outside the mansion, it has started raining as Luffy, Zoro, Sanji, Franky, and Robin have finally arrived. Franky wonders if they should go ahead and run inside, but Luffy notices something huge in the distance behind the mansion. As the fog clears up a bit, Zoro notices that it is a flag. The Straw Hats soon realize however that it is actually a gigantic sail. The old man confirms this, having followed them all the way here, to their surprise. He states that Thriller Bark has a village in the middle, but it is actually the largest pirate ship in the world. He also points out that the back of the mansion is the main mast, and is thus where Gecko Moria resides.
Back at the graveyard, Absalom tells the zombie soldiers that the General Zombies will finish off the pirates, and their job is to corner the ones that are afraid of the undead. At the mansion, Perona readies her unit of zombies as she muses to herself that the Straw Hats think they will escape. Gecko Moria makes special note of Luffy's presence on the island, and prepares to give him a "proper" welcome. Luffy, Franky, Zoro, Robin, and Sanji decide to enter the mansion.

Now face-to-face with Dr. Hogback, Nami confronts the doctor about his work on the zombies, seeking confirmation that he is truly reviving the deceased. Seeing as the "Night Attack" has commenced, Hogback tells the Straw Hats that they may suspect anything that they would like, as it is now too late for them. Hogback does, however, ask what basis Nami has for her accusations, to which she responds that she found Victoria Cindry's obituary. Hogback is flustered at their discovery of his secret. He orders Cindry and a samurai to dispose of them. Ryuma emerges from the destroyed door behind the Straw Hats, laughing in Brook's signature style. Noticing Nami, Ryuma asks to see her panties. Nami is incredibly angered at the question, but remembers she had the exact same exchange with Brook, and wonders how this could be. Dr. Hogback explains that Ryuma is on a different level than the zombies that the Straw Hats have met up until now, as he is a "General Zombie" who holds the body of a warrior from Wano Country in the New World. Hogback points out that the legend of how this samurai cut down a flying dragon has been handed down for centuries, and that the Straw Hats will not be able to escape. Ryuma unsheathes his sword, and is behind the Straw Hats before they can even react. He then tells Cindry to open a nearby pathway for him, and that he would like his night meal. The Straw Hats are confused as to why they have not been cut, and take the opportunity to run for the exit. They are suddenly incapacitated, however, as Hogback explains the phenomenon that those who have been cut by Ryuma obliviously hum for about three meters before they realize that they have been cut. The technique is called "Three-Verse Humming: Arrow Notch Slash" (Hanauta Sanchou: Yahazu-Giri).
Luffy, Sanji, Robin, Franky, and Zoro finally enter the mansion after seeing that the lock on the door has been completely broken off. They notice that for such a big mansion, not a single person seems to be around, and the room itself looks as if there was some kind of struggle. Luffy directly calls Gecko Moria's name, while Sanji hopes that Nami is ok. Buhichuck comments from his post that Luffy knows the name of "the master", and is quite courageous to have entered the house. Luffy points out the pig talking on the wall, and several other "Surprise Zombies" emerge from their picture frames to attack the Straw Hats. The pirates are completely unfazed, though Luffy is visibly astonished by the zombies being able to come out of picture frames. The attacking zombies are effortlessly dispatched: Sanji kicks the face in of one of the zombies and asks of Nami's whereabouts, while Robin breaks all the bones of her attacker with "Twist".  The zombies wonder if the new arrivals are crewmates of the pirates that passed through earlier, which Franky confirms as he smashes two of their heads together. As Luffy and Zoro finish off the last of the attackers, Luffy laments that they could have been good friends with the zombies. Buhichuck is taken down for interrogation on the whereabouts of Chopper, Usopp, and Nami. He attempts to convince the crew that they are upstairs in a bedroom sleeping safe and sound, but Franky refuses to believe it, as Luffy also looks skeptical. In the midst of this, they notice that Sanji is now gone. While the crew ponders Sanji's sudden disappearance, Zoro notices a few of the zombies laughing amongst themselves and deduce that they have been planning something for quite a while. Luffy is not worried about Sanji's safety in the least, however Robin notes that their time may be limited to save Nami, Usopp, and Chopper. The pig warns the crew not to get cocky because they have some strength, but becomes annoyed when he realizes the crew is not listening to him while Robin discusses the crew's next move. She notes that the zombies have no real reason to tell them the truth, even with the threat of violence, to which Zoro proposes that they take the pig as a guide through the mansion. The Surprise Zombies lying defeated on the floor leave them cryptic warnings about Gecko Moria's strength, telling them that their missing nakama are not safe. Luffy tells the zombies to tell Moria that he will blow him off the island if anything happens to his crew, completely blowing them away with his defiant will. Luffy re-asserts that Sanji will be just fine as he digs in his nose, leading his crew forward. As the crew leaves the room, a few of the Surprise Zombies inform Gecko Moria that the Straw Hats have entered the mansion.
Outside the mansion, the zombies are having some kind of dance festival with a disco ball as they celebrate the commencement of the "Night Attack". Absalom enters a sanctuary, and calls on his General Zombies to awaken. As they rise from the ground, he tells them that the Straw Hats barely have eight members and orders them to catch them for their master.

Absalom orders his General Zombies to hunt down the Straw Hat Pirates as they exit the sanctuary that was their resting place. One of the General Zombies known as Captain John slowly passes through the doors as he hiccups on his bottle of liquor. Absalom reminds him that his infamous, life-time reputation is currently weeping, and laments on how hopeless he is as John finally makes it out of the door. Just then, Absalom is accosted a warthog zombie named Lola who asks him to marry her. Absalom orders her to go out and fight as he is the commander, but Lola simply asks him to marry her again. Absalom explains that he is a human and thus wants a human bride, while Lola is a warthog, and a zombie to boot. Lola gets a marriage license and attempts to force Absalom to sign it with his fingerprint, but he manages to free his arm from her grip at the last second to prevent this. Absalom then dodges further attempts to grab his arm and kiss him by a persistent Lola, before he is able to stop her by telling her that he has already selected a bride. Lola warns him that it will be useless once again, but Absalom shows her Nami's bounty poster, and indicates that she is currently one of the pirates that have landed on the island. Determined to not allow this, Lola dashes from the room in pursuit of Nami, with Absalom attempting to stop her.
In Perona's room, she orders her bear-like creature to bring some coffins to the Dance Hall once the Risky Brothers arrive with them. She asks the bear to confirm that he understands her instructions, and the bear appears very uncomfortable with answering before finally saying yes. As soon as he does, Perona reprimands him for answering, as he is not "cute" when he does. She indicates that she is going off to command the Treasure Recovery Group, and tells him to let her know should anything happen. She asks for his acknowledgment again, and this time he says nothing. Perona is pleased by this, reminding him he is cute when he doesn't talk. However the bear wishes her a safe trip, which immediately triggers her anger again.
Somewhere outside Hogback's mansion, a couple of zombie squirrels sing as they carry a large black coffin towards a towering building. One of the squirrels loses their footing, causing them to drop the coffin. The coffin opens to reveal an injured Chopper, who immediately begins to wake up. The squirrels panic and attempt to incapacitate Chopper again, but he transforms into Heavy Point and quickly defeats them. Chopper frees Nami and Usopp from their coffins, and they wake up as well. They remember the encounter with Ryuma, and Usopp deduces that he must have used the back of his sword due to their lack of serious injury. Chopper still doesn't understand the situation fully, but nonetheless updates his nakama that they were being carried by the squirrels in their respective coffins. The squirrels are able to escape, stating that they will notify their friends. The Straw Hats note their location as they look up to the mansion, realizing that they've been carried quite a distance. To their rear they notice another mansion, and Nami realizes that they are on the bridge connecting the two buildings, which in itself happens to be a forest. With this being where they were carried after losing consciousness, they discern that the squirrels must have been taking them to the mansion behind Hogback's; likely to turn them into zombies. Chopper and Usopp decide to run, but Nami points out that they will likely only run into more scary experiences after making such a scene. Nami remembers one of the zombies discussing treasure, which prompts Chopper and Usopp to immediately dissuade her line of thinking. She maintains that they are indeed in a dilemma however; as they may run into Ryuma again should they go back the way they came, but going forward to the new mansion might yield even scarier results. As they talk, they notice three penguins doing a dance routine with their backs turned. The penguins turn and introduce themselves as the Penguin Trio, with it being stated that the third penguin is the newest in the group. They reveal that their comrades behind the Straw Hats are the "Wild Zombies". As the Straw Hats turn and realize they are surrounded, they are welcomed to Perona's "Wonder Garden". The Straw Hats make note of their weird appearances, before the zombies decide to charge at them. Usopp attempts to fire at them with his slingshot, but is fiercely knocked down by two of the penguins. Chopper tries to go help Usopp, but receives a heavy blow from behind by a spiked ball and chain. Nami is helpless as the zombies swarm Usopp and Chopper. One of them attempts to slice Nami, but this triggers something in the newest penguin of the trio, who incapacitates the attacking zombie with a devastating kick. The other zombies tell him not to attack his own nakama, and to instead kick the lady. The penguin states that he doesn't know who the lady is, but even under his master's orders, and at the prospect of death, he absolutely refuses to kick a woman. This draws appalled reactions from Nami, Usopp, and Chopper. The penguin then issues a challenge to the other zombies; should they have a problem with it, they can fight him.
Back in the mansion, Luffy, Franky, and Robin interrogate Buhichuck about possible subterfuge against the group, as it is revealed that Zoro has gone missing too.

Luffy has inexplicably acquired a suit of armor, as he searches the halls of Hogback's Mansion with Franky and Robin for signs of Zoro and Sanji's whereabouts. Franky reprimands him for goofing off at a time like this, but Luffy offers a rebuttal that it is a man's "romance" to wear a suit of armor if it is just laying around. Luffy asks if Franky's new hardened body meant that he lost his heart too, which causes Franky to tear up and play a song on a guitar. While Luffy is highly amused at the cyborg's music, Buhichuck observes the antics and wonders if the Straw Hats truly grasp the weight of the situation. Robin notices that they have entered a large arena-like room, as Buhichuck giggles to himself in light of this. Suddenly a heavily-armored figure drops down attempting to impale Franky, but he is able to dodge. Noticing that the figure moves quite adeptly despite having a spear stuck in its body, the Straw Hats conclude that there is a zombie inside the suit of armor. Franky lands a "Strong Right" on the zombie, but this merely pushes it back some as the zombie replies with a cross-shaped flying slash. Franky is again able to dodge, and notes the zombie's strength as the attack destroys the wall behind him. He however points out that he's no stronger than a normal swordsman, and blasts the zombie with "Weapons Left". The zombie actually falls to the ground this time, but gets back up and immediately cuts Franky on the left forearm. Robin and Luffy show concern that Franky was cut, however Franky appears unfazed. He grips the zombie by its entire head, and flings it across the room as he asserts that he won't die from getting hit by a corpse like him. Luffy notices the zombie once again rising to its feet, and Franky comments that this one is on a completely differently level than the other zombies they have met so far. Buhichuck comments from afar on the nature of the zombies, stating that regardless of how much punishment they take, it doesn't actually hurt them. Each of these General Zombies made names for themselves in their lifetimes by being powerful warriors, so they only become more devastating when made immortal. He further taunts the Straw Hats that there is no way they can win, and that none of their nakama are safe. Luffy gives chase to shut the pig up, but Buhichuck runs away and commands a wall zombie to seal off the pathway behind him. The Straw Hats then turn and realize that they are surrounded by the heavily armored General Zombies.
Franky points out that the group will be slaughtered should they attempt to take them all on at once, to which Luffy agrees. Robin suggests that they get to the courtyard, which they all agree on as the zombies charge. The Straw Hats are able to repel the first wave of zombies easily, but Luffy notices a "36 Pound Cannon" (Sanjuroku Pound Ho) flying toward him that he is barely able to dodge. Recognizing the attack, Luffy asks if Zoro is there. The warrior states that a scar on the back is shameful, but ironically notes that he himself is covered with scars. This causes Luffy to again wonder if this is actually Zoro, but the warrior introduces himself as "Jigoro". This slight distraction gives the General Zombies an opening, and they capture Luffy. Robin and Franky repel another wave of zombies; Robin with "Once Fleur: Slam (11 Flowers)", and Franky with "Fresh Fire". Several of the zombies pour buckets of water on themselves to alleviate this, much to Franky's shock. Robin and Franky escape the room, but notice that Luffy didn't make it out with them. Franky mentions that Luffy's own armor makes it hard to distinguish him from the General Zombies, and Robin realizes that they can't just wait for Luffy there either or the zombies will catch up. Franky calls out to Luffy, but soon notices a coffin sealed with spider-web being slid across a chain above them. A person in the coffin screams to be let out, and Robin realizes that this is Luffy. Robin confirms with Franky that their captain has been captured, and they immediately dash off to save him. Their pursuit is swiftly cut off however, as a gigantic Spider Monkey, Tararan lands in front of them. Tararan notes Luffy's casket making it into the Mast Mansion, as Franky and Robin inquire on the enemy's intentions with their captain. Tararan assures them that whatever happens to Luffy will soon happen to them as well, as he reminds them of their situation: to their front they have to deal with him, but behind them are the rest of the General Zombies that gave chase. With this, he tells the Straw Hats that they are finished.

In Perona's "Wonder Garden", the zombies are in shock and bewilderment that Inuppe was able to defy their master's order. He has defeated several of the zombies in order to protect Nami, displaying a level of strength on par with a General Zombie. Inuppe states that "Love Is A Hurricane" in reference to his power, causing Nami, Usopp, and Chopper to note his similarity to Sanji. When the latter two ask the zombie directly about this he responds with aggression, though a distant voice quickly grabs their attention.
This is revealed to be Absalom; he is trying to stop Lola the zombie, who is running directly toward the Straw Hats. When she spots Nami she accuses her of being a thief and pulls out a gigantic axe to attack her. She tells a perplexed Nami that she won't let her have "Ab-sama", but before she can land a blow Inuppe jumps in front and breaks the axe with a powerful kick. His endeavor ultimately fails however, as Lola is incensed at his involvement and angrily throws him far away. Usopp and Chopper ask Inuppe why he didn't attack, and he responds that "Even if I die I wont kick a woman!!". Usopp and Chopper applaud that Inuppe was able to deduce that Lola was a woman, but with Lola busy, Absalom finds the chance to run away with Nami using his ability. Usopp initially thinks Nami is flying, though Chopper quickly reminds him of the "Invisible Man" that had appeared on the Thousand Sunny earlier. Nami recalls him as well, and upon Absalom finally introducing himself to her as her future husband, she attacks him with 'Thunder Charge'. This makes Absalom stop temporarily but he quickly shakes off the feeling, wondering if it is love. Lola, now even angrier and brandishing two katanas, continues pursuing the Straw Hats.
As the other zombies rally themselves to chase the fleeing pirates, Inuppe questions his inexplicable desire to protect Nami and grows frustrated that his body can't move the way he wants it to. Absalom warns the "Wild" Zombies not to harm Nami in any way at all, though they brush this off as his usual perverted nature and remind him that by Moria's order they are Perona's subordinates. Absalom roars loudly, freezing them in their tracks. He recognizes that they are under Perona's authority, but warns the zombies that they should not anger him. Inuppe then confronts Absalom, asserting that he won't allow him to pursue Nami. Absalom aims his palm at Inuppe, and suddenly a massive shockwave completely blows him and all the zombies in the surrounding area away. As the other zombies look on in fear, Inuppe appears to be incapacitated. Meanwhile, Lola is in hot pursuit of the Straw Hats, though Usopp notices that she seems to be primarily interested in Nami. He proposes that they split up, which earns him a slap on the head.
On the General Zombies' side, Franky and Robin find themselves trapped on a bridge between zombies and Tararan. Franky is quite surprised to learn that Luffy, Sanji and Zoro are all trapped behind the giant spider zombie in a room. Tararan warns that the same thing is about to happen to the two of them, as the zombies behind them draw closer. Franky realizes that Tararan is behind the giant web that trapped the Sunny, and the zombie is proud to reveal that Perona's "Ghost Network" has been tracking all of their movements. Franky notes how desperate their situation appears to be and asks Robin if she'll trust him in getting them out of it, to which she happily obliges. With a 'Coup de Vent' Franky destroys the bridge from beneath them, and Robin saves them by creating wings with her Devil Fruit. Franky is astonished by her ability to fly, though she notes that she can only do this for five seconds. Franky assures her this is plenty of time, as he uses a "Strong Right" to extend his arm and grapple to the doorway across from them. Robin lands safely and notes that the zombies have all fallen down, though Franky is upset with her for using him as a stepping stone to jump to safety. Tararan warns them that he is a spider and can get back up there in no time, but their conversation is halted when Brook is seen falling from the sky. He lands right in the pile of zombies that just fell from the bridge.

Lola keeps chasing Nami, with Usopp and Chopper trying to stop her. They fail, and Lola is ready to attack Nami. When she tries to kill her, Nami shouts that she is in fact a man. Lola believes her, and Nami asks her to be friends. When Absalom appears again, Lola runs towards him and Nami and the others find a chance to leave.
In Thousand Sunny, Perona is stealing the Straw Hats' treasures. Hildon appears and tells Perona that Moria is calling for a meeting. She goes to her room, just to find Absalom and Kumashi there already. Nami, Usopp and Chopper are hiding inside Kumashi just to participate in this meeting.
Outside, Franky and Robin witness Brook falling from the sky and lands badly on the ground. Tararan uses his web to reach them, but Robin and Franky trap him inside his webs while Franky deals some damage to him too. They think they defeated him, but he recovers and his spiders trap Robin and Franky.
Out of nowhere Brook appears in front of them, finishing off Tararan with a deadly slash.

The chapter begins after Brook slashes Tararan. Franky warns Brook that it will get up again but he responds saying he has already dealt with it. After Tararan saying he has seen Brook somewhere before, a black substance starts emerging from his body and flies away, much to the shock of Tararan's subordinates and Franky. Brook describes it as "the soul of a zombie". The subordinates then quickly scurry away, going to inform Moria. Brook tells Franky that the web is vulnerable to fire and Franky manages to break free using his fire-breathing skills. Franky is surprised that Brook knows so much about the island and tells him that Luffy, Zoro and Sanji have been kidnapped. Brook replies that it might be too late, which gets Franky angry. Brook then tells another "skull joke", which rills up Franky even more and aims at him, making Robin telling him to not fire at him, as he's already dead.
Brook then goes on about his past, saying that he tried to get out of the area, but his rudder was broken and he drifted onto Thriller Bark. He says that he went into the island to look for parts to fix his rudder, but was captured and brought into the castle. There he witnessed a person's shadow being cut off and says another skull joke, making Franky hit him. He then goes on with the story saying that the shadow was pushed into a corpse, and it came alive. His shadow was then cut away from him. He then goes on to explain about shadows and reveals Moria has eaten the Kage Kage no Mi. He explains that through Hogback's experiments, Moria is able to animate the corpses of others, as well as legendary warriors. Franky realizes that with the method he uses, it does not seem like he can actually bring back the dead, which Brook confirms, since the shadow used will always have the same personality and fighting style as the person it was stolen from. He then explains that the stronger the person, the stronger the shadow and explains that Moria wants people with bounties because he wants stronger zombies. He goes on to explain that zombies are obedient and people who have their shadows taken are set adrift on the sea. Brook then tells Robin and Franky to listen to his plan, which makes him start twirling around in happiness because it's the first time he has negotiated with someone in years. Robin asks him to continue and Brook explains his plan.
Back at the Mansion, the three commanders, Perona, Absalom and Hogback, arrive. Moria is then officially introduced, stating his former bounty and motto. Luffy is then revealed in a cage calling Moria a leek and asking for his friends back. Moria is shown to be oblivious about the Straw Hat Pirates, apart from Luffy and Zoro. Nami, Usopp and Chopper are shown to be hiding inside Kumashi. Hogback then questions about the three of them, but Perona says that they never arrived. Kumashi tries to tell her they are inside him but is silenced. Absalom then gets angry at Hogback as he realizes he must've harmed Nami (who he calls his bride). Cindry then answers that she will never come for him, which makes Hogback to try to silence her, but he says that the bride will never come for him either. Moria then tells everyone to be quiet and tells them that they are bearing witness to the birth of an exceptionally strong zombie. Luffy tries to escape by eating through the bars but is stopped by Perona. Moria then cuts Luffy's shadow from him, making Luffy faint.

The chapter starts with Franky questioning why he should return back to the Thousand Sunny. Brook explains that Luffy's, Zoro's and Sanji's shadows have probably already been taken, so they would've been returned back to their ship. Brook goes on to explain that even if their shadows are taken, they will not die but lose consciousness for two days. Franky asks why they do not just kill them while they are down but Brook tells him that if the body dies, the shadow will die too so they ship them away and make sure they aren't killed as well as stopping them from being able to get their shadows back too. Brook then tells them that if all of the Straw Hats' shadows are taken, they will be sent adrift, so he hurries them to claim Luffy, Zoro and Sanji's shadows back. He then reveals to them that salt is the zombies' weak point because their power originates from a Devil Fruit, and salt has the power of the sea, so if they put it into zombies' mouths, the shadow will return to their owner, leaving the corpse inanimate. Robin questions how he knows so much, and Brook tells her that his shadow was also taken five years ago and was sent adrift. Fortunately, he woke up while he was being sent back and returned to the island to reclaim his shadow, but failed. He then mentions that he needs his shadow to fulfill his promise to a friend. Just as he is about to leave to try reclaim his shadow a second time, Franky holds him back and demands him to tell them the part he missed out.
Back at the mansion, Luffy's shadow had just been extracted from him with a terrified Usopp, Nami and Chopper watching inside Kumashi. While Luffy's shadow is confused and struggling, Hogback mentions that he has been working on "Number 900" for a few years and it will be the strongest zombie ever created. Absalom and Perona state their dreams and Moria mentions he drew with Kaidou, one of the Four Emperors, in the New World. He then calls out to his subordinates to head into the freezer while Absalom orders some Spider-Mice to put Luffy's body on the ship. Before they start, they give a report to him saying that Captain Tararan has been beaten and his shadow has been extracted, causing Hogback to panic. Hogback explains that Brook had been causing trouble, purifying all the zombies. Absalom and Perona both do not know what he actually looks like and Absalom states that he will have no trouble passing through the surveillance. Moria, however, does not seem to be troubled and tells them to do something about it, heading into the freezer. The Spider-Mice then proceed to put Luffy back onto the ship while Usopp, Nami and Chopper stay inside Kumashi and plan to take Luffy's shadow back when they get the chance.
Back at the bridge, the General Zombies arrive on the scene and are surprised Tararan was defeated. Franky and Robin run up some stairs with Franky crying. At Hogback's lab, Brook encounters his zombie and asks his shadow to come back to him. At the mansion, Moria and his subordinates continue into the freezer and reveals "Number 900" is a large giant named Oars.

Moria took Luffy's shadow to resurrect the ultimate zombie Oars. Having witnessed what had happened, Usopp and Chopper fall out into view, letting Moria and Perona know they were there. Immediately Absalom spots Nami claiming that she is his bride. He begins asking her is she doing there. The Wild Zombies attempt to capture them. Oars finally wakes up; Nami, Chopper and Usopp run away at full speed with Absalom running after them. While running away Nami sees that Oars' first word was meat figuring out what has happened to Luffy, Sanji and Zoro. Chopper gets angry because he finds out that Hogback wasn't a good doctor, and he didn't even care about peoples' lives; he is just a villain.
As they run to the Thousand Sunny where Luffy, Sanji and Zoro's bodies are, Absalom suddenly catches up to them abruptly burning Usopp and Chopper. He kidnaps Nami because he wants to marry her. Usopp attacks Absalom but it was too late since Absalom had already disappeared with Nami. A group of wild zombies then surround Chopper and Usopp isn't unable to beat all of them. They're suddenly helped by Robin and Franky.

The zombies in the Mast Mansion tower stand in absolute disbelief over their defeated comrades, mortified that someone other than "Humming" Brook has discovered their weakness. They lament that their biggest advantage, the inability to die, has been nullified. Franky, Robin, Usopp, and Chopper dash down a long staircase outside the mansion, as they heard that this is the pathway used for the transport of those whose shadows were stolen. Usopp and Chopper update Franky that Nami was taken from them while in pursuit of Luffy. Chopper wonders if Nami will be alright, to which Usopp assures him that they will definitely save her. Franky inquires about the loud roar that he and Robin heard earlier, mentioning that it is what spurred them to come to their aid. Usopp states that it was Luffy's voice and he will explain more later, but nonetheless confirms that their situation has changed drastically.
Inside the Mast Mansion, several zombies frantically rush to bring Oars food, noting his incredible appetite may cost them their entire food supply. Gecko Moria is amused by Oars' appetite, while Perona angrily questions Kumashi on why he harbored Nami, Usopp, and Chopper inside of him. Oars tells Moria he doesn't even know his own identity and is appreciative of all the food he is receiving, but tells the Warlord that it is still not enough. The zombies express their disapproval of Oars' insubordination to their master, but quickly all bow and apologize once Oars looks their way. Moria gives Oars a quick brief of his history; stating that 500 years ago he was a great warrior that left behind countless legends. He explains that Oars is now his subordinate however, which the beast quickly denies. Oars states he has a dream, much to the astonishment of the other zombies. Oars wants to go outside, and possibly go out to sea, as the zombies remind him that they are in an incredibly dense freezer made of iron. Oars effortlessly breaks through the walls of the mansion with "Gomu Gomu no Pistol", astonishing the zombies present as they attempt to dissuade him from leaving. As Oars jumps down from the tower, he notes that he had a feeling his arm would stretch for some reason. Oars loudly exclaims that he will become the Pirate King.
In Hogback's Mansion, Brook confronts Ryuma. The latter teases Brook about their last battle, reminding him how he begged for Ryuma not to damage his afro. Brook retorts that such a thing won't happen again, as he similarly recounts the events of that day in his head. In a flashback, Brook is running through the forests of Thriller Bark, frustrated that a zombie he had fought kept managing to get back up no matter how many times he cut it. He is determined that there has to be some kind of weak point for the zombies, as even if he finds his own zombie with his shadow, this will not be enough. Brook then notices a zombie pass out, and listens in as his comrades point out that the zombie had just eaten grilled fish with salt. Brook is later seen interrogating Dr. Hogback with his sword drawn on him, demanding to know which zombie has his shadow. Brook threatens Hogback with a supply of fish, which the doctor quickly ridicules. Brook ponders to himself that there's no way it could be the salt, but noticing Hogback's frenzied reaction to the mention of it, concludes that it must be the salt. Under the full moon that night, Brook reflects on how scary zombies are, especially at night. He remembers that he can sing a song to take his mind off of things, as he becomes easily frightened by a grasshopper nearby. Brook decides that if he sings and moves with his enhanced speed so that he doesn't see the zombies' faces as he feeds them the salt, he will most definitely find his shadow. A few of the zombies in the graveyard notice someone humming a song. Brook then cuts through them all with amazing speed, purifying them in the process as he then runs away in fear. Absalom learns from his Soldier Zombies about Brook's reign of terror, as they describe his humming as a sign that he will soon appear. Kumashi informs Perona of the trouble as well, and it is revealed that Brook has completely annihilated the Soldier Zombies. Sometime after, Brook finally comes face-to-face with Ryuma; recognizing his distinct laugh as proof that the zombie indeed has his shadow. Brook is heavily outclassed by the zombie, despite having the exact same swordsmanship. He is for some reason unable to keep up with the zombie's strength, which confuses Brook that he can't match his own shadow in combat. Ryuma tells him that his efforts are useless, and considers cutting off Brook's "bothersome" afro as a means for him to move faster. Brook vehemently begs for Ryuma to stop, perplexed that the zombie doesn't understand the significance of his afro despite having his own shadow. Ryuma replies that he's forgotten all about his days with Brook, and that his only masters are Moria and Absalom. Ryuma goes on to state that it is laughable that he'd get along with a skeleton who cares about an afro so much, as he tries to cut it off of Brook's head. Brook deflects most of the attempts, but is ultimately stabbed through the eye socket by Ryuma. As Ryuma holds Brook by the eye socket with his sword, Brook begs for his life, saying he will leave immediately. Ryuma acknowledges that it would be problematic for him as well if Brook died, and commands him to get lost.
In the present, Ryuma reminds Brook not to have another pathetic display like their last encounter. Brook assures him that for the past five years, he has trained to become stronger for this second chance as their swords clash. In a different room, Absalom arrives with an unconscious Nami. He places her down on a table, and tells the zombie priest to start the wedding ceremony immediately. He orders a different zombie, who appears to be a tailor, to put her into a dress and bring her to the ceremonial hall.
Outside the Mast Mansion, Robin, Franky, Usopp, and Chopper have finally made it down the steps. They realize that the explosion and outcry that they heard earlier is likely the beginning of Luffy's zombie going on a rampage, and surmise that they must hurry. As they make it to the Thousand Sunny, they note its new location and are able to understand more about how the denizens of Thriller Bark capture their prey. Usopp gets onto the ship first, and informs the crew that zombies have looted the ship. Once they all board, they eventually locate Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji in the dining room. All three of them are unconscious. However, they have been sat in chairs with various objects stuck inside their nostrils, mouths, on the top of their heads, as well as their hair tied up in ridiculous fashion. Franky yells and uses violence to attempt to wake them all up, but this proves ineffective. Franky instead tries to use his bazooka, but Usopp has a better idea. Usopp yells that a "beautiful lady swordsman with a ton of meat" just arrived, which immediately wakes up the "Monster Trio". They respond to their individual desires; Sanji to a "beautiful lady", Luffy to "meat", and Zoro is awoken at the prospect of a swordsman. Chopper is astonished that such a crude method proved effective contrary to the use of actual force, causing him to call them all hopeless.

Luffy awakens in a hostile mood, seeking retribution for Gecko Moria taking his shadow. He is calmed by Franky however, as Zoro and Sanji also come to their senses. The trio wonders how they ended up back on the Thousand Sunny, and Zoro notices that he no longer has a shadow. Luffy is more concerned that there is no longer anything to eat, despite stuffing his face with a huge block of cheese. Sanji points out however that they specifically left them with the non-perishable food items. The trio finds themselves all very disappointed; Zoro for letting down his guard, Luffy for not having anything to eat but cheese, and Sanji notices that Nami is missing. Sanji becomes livid with Usopp upon learning that Nami was taken from them, demanding to know why they didn't chase the aggressor, who the person is, and where he is located. Usopp is quite frightened by Sanji's vigor, but nevertheless rebuts that Sanji needs to listen to the whole story. Usopp establishes that there are two things that they can't afford to not get back; Nami and their shadows, though Luffy interjects with "food" as a third item.
Sanji becomes incredibly infuriated that Nami is involved with a wedding, to the point that he literally appears to be on fire. Luffy mentions that Absalom must be brave to want to marry Nami, and is also surprised that his shadow is in a giant. Zoro on the other hand, deduces that they must already know the zombies that have Luffy and Sanji's shadows. While Chopper and Usopp become frightened after learning that Moria is a Warlord, Luffy remembers that he met Zoro's zombie. Zoro is curious about his zombie, but nonetheless affirms that they can get their shadows back by finding the three zombies  with them and feeding them salt. He commends the crew for being able to find out the zombies' weakness. Franky however clarifies that they learned of the weakness to salt, and that they should look for their nakama without shadows thanks to Brook, much to Luffy's delight. Franky explains that he was initially very rude to Brook, and refused to acknowledge him from the moment Luffy asked him to join the crew. However the more Franky talked to him, he realized that despite just being a skeleton, Brook is truly a real man. In a flashback to when Brook saved Franky and Robin from Tararan, Franky is shown to be very abrasive to the skeleton about his appearance. He asks Brook if he is aware of the kinds of reactions that he will get to people meeting him, even if he does manage to make it out of the Florian Triangle. Franky goes on to say that you can't be friends with something so creepy, and that Brook is sure to die of shame. He says that his fate would be the same as all the years he has spent in this sea, and since Brook stated himself that he is incredibly sad, he personally would have given up living a long time ago. Franky ends by asking Brook what promise he made to his crew that was so important. Brook explains that a long time ago, his crew left one of their nakama behind at a certain place, with a promise to absolutely return. Their crew was annihilated at sea, and so as to not break that promise, Brook remained on that ship for over fifty years after the crew died. Franky interjects that he wasn't even born fifty years ago, and that the person couldn't have possibly waited that long. Brook explains that he is well aware, and their nakama had every right to leave, but if by some small chance they did indeed honor the promise, they must be incredibly lonely now. They may think that the crew betrayed them, but if they did indeed wait, then they must have some very strong pent-up feelings. Brook reveals that the crewmember they left behind was named Laboon. He explains that they certainly couldn't take a young whale through the dangers of their journey, and that he must be so big by now. Brook can't help but feel as if Laboon has truly believed in them all this time, and is waiting for the day that they return and play their music for him. Brook doesn't believe that Laboon would forgive them for dying irresponsibly, and that if he could he would yell to them all that "Death isn't an apology", because a man once said that they would absolutely come back. Robin and Franky are deeply moved by Brook's sentiments.
Back in the present, Franky concludes his story by affirming this is Brook's reasoning for being on his ship for so long, but Luffy, Zoro, Sanji, and Usopp all remember Laboon from their initial entry into the grand line. Franky asks them to explain. Sanji complies, telling him the story of how they met Laboon at the Twin Capes: he was trying to break through the wall that divides the world's seas, eagerly awaiting the return of a certain pirate crew for 50 years. Laboon had heard that something happened to the pirates, and thus was attempting to break free to reach them. Sanji explains that Luffy eventually convinced it to not behave in such a suicidal manner, but Laboon is definitely still waiting at that location. Usopp is astounded that the crew and Laboon have kept their promise to each other for so many years, while Zoro is similarly shocked that Brook is one of the people that Laboon has waited for all this time.
Brook and Ryuma's battle is on in full force, with the two warriors shown to be in an intense fencing exchange. Ryuma acknowledges that Brook has indeed become stronger in the last five years, but because they think similarly, he has as well. Brook is able to dodge a thrust from Ryuma, but is impaled by a follow-up attack that sends him flying back. As Brook lays on his back, Ryuma once again admonishes him for attempting to protect his afro. Brook rises and charges Ryuma with a flurry of strikes, as he muses to himself if Laboon still remembers the crew. He jokes that it must be heart-wrenching to think of how Laboon feels right now, although he doesn't have a heart anymore. As Ryuma again overpowers Brook in a fencing exchange, Brook laments that their nakama have all passed away, and that even he has lost the body and face that Laboon remembers. Ryuma makes more attempts to cut Brook's afro, causing the latter to parry the sword strikes from his position on the ground as he begs him not to damage his hair. Brook laments that Laboon definitely wouldn't recognize him now in his skeletal form, but remembers that his afro always made Laboon laugh. Brook is thus determined to preserve his current look until the very end, as he is coming to see Laboon at their promised location. Brook rises to his feet again for another clash with Ryuma, but is again impaled through the midsection.
Back on the Thousand Sunny, Franky is in tears over Brook & Laboon's story, much to the annoyance of the crew. Luffy is overjoyed; taking into account that Brook is a musician, a talking skeleton, has an afro, has an amusing laugh, and was Laboon's nakama, Luffy is more determined than ever to have Brook join the crew. Luffy asks if the crew has a problem with it, to which a highly amused Robin asks if it would change anything if they did. Usopp wholeheartedly agrees with Brook joining, while Chopper and Franky tearfully agree as well. Sanji angrily interjects that they must stop Nami's wedding first, and Zoro departs the ship, saying that the number of shadows they need to get back has now increased. Luffy happily announces for the Straw Hats to get ready for their counterattack, as they are going to blow down Thriller Bark.

On the staircase leading to the mansion on Thriller Bark, Zoro is saying that it might be hard to find the zombies with their shadows. Chopper states that Luffy's zombie is huge, being twice the size of normal giants, and that the Straw Hats might not be able to defeat it. However, Luffy says that they do not have to look for their zombies, but Zoro says that they cannot step into the sun without their shadows. Luffy argues that since the old man they met in the graveyard had said that they might be able to beat Gecko Moria, all they have to do is defeat him and get their shadows back. The rest of the crew is surprised, and Sanji says that the man did say that. Luffy points up the stairs to the mansion, and says that he will go defeat Moria and reclaim their shadows. Luffy then tells Sanji to go to rescue Nami, making him explode into flames at rage, saying that he will kick defeat Absalom and prevent Nami from getting married. Usopp adds that Absalom took a long look at Nami in the shower, further enraging Sanji. Zoro tells Usopp not to excite him anymore, as he is about to transform into something. Usopp states that he is guilty about Nami being captured before his eyes, and since he does not want to encounter Moria, decides to accompany Sanji. Franky is worried about Brook and decides to check on him, and Zoro decides to go with him as he wants to see the legendary samurai who has Brook's shadow. Nico Robin says that the key is to defeat Moria, and Chopper says that even though they are talking about the adventure like it is easy, they are still fighting a Warlord of the Sea. Luffy says that this is the same as Crocodile, but Chopper says that Luffy almost died then, and that he needs to take better care of himself since Luffy's zombie is huge. Usopp then throws each of the Straw Hats a bag of salt, which Zoro said that Usopp was making earlier. Usopp says that they have no sense of danger, and tells the crew that even though the island is surrounded by deep fog, there is no guarantee that the sun will not shine through, making dawn their time limit. Luffy, saying that he hates that he is not eating until dawn, says that he will make Gecko Moria regret picking a fight with them. With this, the crew splits up in their respective groups.
On the mast of Thriller Bark, Oars looks out over the island, and is amazed that it is a ship. However, he cannot see anything, and decides that he will become Pirate King with Thriller Bark as his ship. In the mansion, Moria asks Perona where Oars has gone, and she replies that he has climbed up the mast. Some zombies complain that they cannot let Oars wander the island, as he is too dangerous, but Moria simply replies that since they have Oars now, they will be able to acquire the shadows of more powerful people and create more special zombies. Moria tells Hogback that he will have to create better bodies for the zombies, and he says to leave it up to him. Suddenly, Hildon flies in, saying that there is a problem. Hildon states that the three people who lost their shadows (Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji) have all woken up and are approaching. Hogback says that they should not be waking up this soon, but Hildon says that their fellows may have woken them. Hildon continues, saying that they seem to be connected to Brook and that they know how to purify zombies. Due to this, the zombie are afraid and running around. Hogback says that the surprise, wild, and soldier zombies could not match the Straw Hats even without salt, and that they need to get the general zombies to fight. Hogback asks what Absalom is doing, but Hildon says that most of the general zombies are attending his wedding ceremony. Furthermore, Hildon says that Absalom wants Hogback to dance at his reception in an hour, and although Hogback agrees at first, as it is a special occasion, then says that he has no time to dance. Hogback tells Hildon to go fetch Absalom, but Hildon says that he cannot in his current position. Perona laughs, saying that they do not need to ask Absalom anything. She states that they only need to weaken the Straw Hats with her ghosts so that the soldier zombies can take them out. Perona promises to retrieve them, and tells Hogback to go make bodies for the shadows they captured. Perona then leaves, and Hogback says that he is glad they have her on their side. Hogback tells Moria that everything is fine, and Moria says it is boring, even though Hogback states that he would not have even done anything anyway. Moria decides to stay and play with Oars for a while, and since Absalom is indisposed, Hogback asks for two zombies for himself.
On the stairs, Luffy punches his way through hordes of zombies looking for his food as Sanji kicks away zombies, asking which one of them peeked at Nami. Usopp, Robin, and Chopper follow, and Usopp states they do not need salt, as they are filled with anger, making Chopper wonder if they are really concerned about their shadows. The zombies yell that there are five enemies approaching the dance hall (Luffy, Sanji, Usopp, Robin, and Chopper), as well as two below (Zoro and Franky), and that they cannot stop either group. As Zoro and Franky fight their way through, Zoro wonders how he was ever captured by the zombies, and Franky says that since he rescued Zoro, he should be called Aniki, to which Zoro objects. Meanwhile, on the upper part of the bridge, Robin is surprised to see Luffy and Sanji fall after being struck by ghosts that turn all of their thoughts negative. The zombies catch the two, and Robin says that they do not know how to reverse the effect of the ghosts. Usopp shoots salt into the zombies' mouths, and Chopper and Usopp carry Luffy and Sanji up the stairs. Suddenly, Oars jump down from the mast and onto the bridge, crushing both the upper and lower parts and sending Usopp and Sanji crashing to the lower portion. Chopper, left with Robin and Luffy on the upper portion, is shocked to see that Usopp, Sanji, and all the zombies fell, while on the lower part, Franky and Zoro wonder what the wall is in front of them. Zoro stabs it, saying its not stone, and Franky shoots it. However, Usopp stops them, saying that the massive object is actually not a wall, but Luffy's zombie.

Unable to retrieve Usopp and Sanji, who fell when Oars crashed through part of the Mast Mansion, Luffy, Chopper, and Robin decide to press forward. Knowing those two would be fine despite what happened, the three Straw Hats hurried to find Moria. They head towards the giant freezer where the Warlord was last seen. Before they could get to the freezer; however, they go through the dance hall and encounter Hogback and Cindry.
Seeing the enemies before them, Luffy prepares to engage them. Chopper however tells Luffy to let him deal with Hogback and go ahead to Moria. Luffy obliges Chopper's request and with a little help from Robin, is able to pass by an attacking Cindry to the freezer. Having gotten Luffy through, Chopper confronts Hogback and expresses at how disappointed he is of his former role model. Hogback, upon recognizing Chopper after the reindeer transformed into his Brain Point, decides to confront him as well with plans to make the reindeer a zombie. As the two doctors confronts each other, the two zombies that Hogback asked from Moria, Inuppe and Jigoro, came forward to Hogback's aid. Meanwhile, Luffy reaches the freezer and confronts the lazily resting Moria.
Back at the bridge destroyed by Oars, Zoro, Usopp, Sanji, and Franky, prepares for what might be a fight with the giant zombie. The behemoth however instead of fighting, takes some debris and places it on his head due to its likeness to a pirate bicorne. With his new accessory, Oars continues on exploring the rest of Thriller Bark leaving the four Straw Hats unnoticed. Having been left alone, the four Straw Hats are relived. Usopp; however, is deeply scared of what had happened.
With the giant zombie gone, the four Straw Hats then face a new problem. Since the zombie destroyed the bridge, the gap is too far for them to jump over and the situation seems to force them to take another route, an option they do not have the luxury of taking at the moment. Fortunately, Franky is able to create a bridge across the gap from the debris around quickly. He however asks his crewmates to wait a few seconds later since he is not yet satisfied with the finish. With the bridge built by Franky, the four Straw Hats cross the gap and enter the Mast Mansion.
Upon entering the mansion, the four Straw Hats soon notice that they've entered a special room. Within it is the owner, Perona, waiting for them. From her, they learn that she, having eaten the Horo Horo no Mi, is the one controlling all of the ghosts on Thriller Bark. With that explanation, Perona wastes no time and sends some ghosts to immobilize the four Straw Hats. Unable to escape, all four of them were seemingly immobilized. Seeing her work done on the four, Perona set her Wild Zombies on them and decides to take care of the rest of the Straw Hats. However, just as she is about to leave, she suddenly notices that one of them was still standing and purifying her zombies. Thinking that she might had missed him, Perona sends another ghost towards the pirate, Usopp. To her surprise, Usopp did not fall down like the rest. Wondering why her powers aren't working on him, Perona asks what trick he was pulling. Usopp stated in response that he wasn't doing anything but told Perona why her powers weren't working on him. To Perona's shock, the reason that Usopp is not overcome by negativity was because he's already negative to begin with thus rendering him immune to Perona's powers altogether.
Unable to comprehend that such a negative person could exist, Perona tries in vain, along with her zombies, to cheer up Usopp. Usopp on the other hand, tells his fellow crew mates that he will take care of Perona himself since they could not. Relived by Usopp, the three Straw Hats moves on ahead to rescue Brook and Nami, leaving Usopp to deal with Perona. Unfortunately, Usopp did not intend for this. He wants them to stay and take out the surrounding zombies. Unable to get his fellow crew mates to stay, Usopp is left alone to face Perona and her Wild Zombies much to his fears and doubts.
Meanwhile, within the Thriller Bark church, Absalom's wedding is proceeding smoothly to his plans. The ceremony has gotten to the part where all that was left to do was to kiss the bride in order to fully consummate the marriage. With this, Absalom dangerously approaches a still sleeping Nami with his lips puckered.

Perona pierces Usopp with four of her Negative Hollows, expecting Usopp to lose all of his will to live. But unexpectedly, the Hollows became negative, losing to Usopp in the terms of negativity. All of the Wild Zombies are shocked at the outcome. They then realize that Perona also became negative. Usopp then challenges everyone in the room to conquer him in terms of his negative thoughts.
Meanwhile, Franky, Sanji, and Zoro outrun some Wild Zombies. They comment on how lucky they are that Usopp's negativity came in useful in times like this. Sanji then departs to rescue Nami from becoming the bride of Absalom and flies down. Zoro and Franky continue heading to the castle where Brook and Ryuma are dueling. Ryuma knocks Brook down, and comments that Brook is almost like a phoenix or a zombie as he should not be able to stand and then ask what he should cut off with his special arrow notch slash. Brook, kneeling in front of Ryuma, tells him not to use that name because it is his signature fast cutting technique that his crew praised and nicknamed "Hanauta Sancho: Yahazu Giri", since Brook's shadow had forgotten his memories and feelings.
Ryuma then challenges Brook to use his real technique versus Ryuma's so-called fake fencing techniques. Brook then stands up and pulls out his sword. Both Brook and Ryuma walk past each other saying Hanauta Sancho: Yahazu Giri at the same time. However, Ryuma struck first, resulting him into the victor of the duel. While falling down, Brook has a image of Laboon and him playing the violin only wanting to apologize to him. Ryuma goes and grabs Brook's afro as he decides to cut it off first. However, the island suddenly starts to shake, making Ryuma lose grip of Brook's afro.
Franky and Zoro finally find Brook in the laboratory. Franky goes and helps Brook. While he is helping Brook, Ryuma tries to attack them but Zoro blocks Ryuma's attack. Zoro recognizes Ryuma as the ancient "legendary samurai" who cut the dragon even if Zoro is not sure whether dragons exist or not but admits that he always wanted to meet Ryuma. Brook asks Franky who exactly is Zoro, to which Franky responds that Zoro is a strong pirate swordsman. He also asks Zoro to get his shadow back, but Zoro yells at him to shut up. Zoro then notices Ryuma's sword, Shusui, one of the twenty-one great swords. Zoro is determined to get the sword, as he lost one of his sword back at Enies Lobby.
In the mast's first floor cathedral, Absalom keep trying to give Nami the closing kiss, but keep missing Nami due to the Thriller Bark shaking. He finds out that Oars is moving the rudder without any permission and accidentally crossed a strange ocean current. Absalom then commends all of the General Zombies to move out. The General Zombies try to attack Oars in an attempt to stop Oars but instead they are attacked and smashed by Oars trying to use Luffy's Gomu Gomu no Gatling Gun. Oars yells out in anger to not interrupt his adventures. Back inside the cathedral Absalom is informed that the General Zombies were defeated by Oars in an instant. Absalom is shocked by the news and proclaims that it cannot be possible as the General Zombies are the ultimate zombie fighters.
Sanji is then seen running to the cathedral. In the cathedral, he yells out for Nami saying that he had come to take her back. When he sees Nami, he is relieved to see that she is okay. Absalom then asks if Sanji is one of the Straw Hat Pirates.

Unaware of Oars' constant interference with the ship outside, Luffy wonders what's causing the entire island to shake. Having arrived at Gecko Moria's location, the Warlord of the Sea tells Luffy that it is most likely his zombie causing the ruckus, if not a strong current. Moria asks Luffy what he has come here for, to which he demands back the shadows of the Straw Hats, Brook, and the old man that the crew met earlier. Moria inquires as to how Luffy plans on getting them back, and he replies that he will defeat Moria. The Warlord of the Sea explains that even if Luffy were to defeat him, the zombies would retain their shadows. He further explains that his power allows him to command the shadows, and that the only way to get a shadow to return to its former host is if he commands it. Moria tells Luffy that he is far too weak to compel him to do so, which prompts Luffy to attempt attack him with "Gomu Gomu no Pistol". A shadow of an arm emerges to block the punch, which Moria introduces as his shadow clone, "Doppelman". As Luffy wonders just what the clone is, Moria explains that in the past he was consumed by the desire for his own strength. He has since discovered the value of having powerful underlings, and plans on becoming the Pirate King exclusively through the use of other people's abilities. As Luffy dodges an attack from Doppelman, he angrily retorts that he is the one who will be Pirate King. Moria notes that Luffy's shadow said the same thing, and that it appears his will manifested quite strongly into his shadow as expected. However this is only a matter of time, as once the shadow loses all memories of being Luffy, he will become completely obedient to Moria. Luffy again demands Moria return his shadow, landing a powerful neck kick on Doppelman which he follows up with a "Gomu Gomu no Gatling Gun". The attack appears to break pieces off of Doppelman; but Moria uses "Brick Bat", which causes the pieces of shadow to turn into small bats that absorb the impact of Luffy's punches. As Luffy realizes that he can't hit the real Moria, the bats swarm him while the Warlord of the Sea taunts his efforts. Luffy is covered and bitten in multiple places, before the bats eventually retreat and reform Doppelman. Moria tells Luffy that when young people like him underestimate the Grand Line, it only ends in embarrassment. Luffy jumps over the railing, to Moria and Doppelman's confusion. Luffy then catches the ledge by stretching, and uses "Gomu Gomu no Stamp" to kick Moria through the ground beneath him. After Moria expresses how much the technique hurt, Luffy taunts the Warlord of the Sea for saying that he can't be touched.
At the cathedral of Absalom and Nami's wedding, Sanji spins into the room, skipping and singing a song. The zombie holding Nami is confused, and Sanji lands a powerful kick to send him flying. As Sanji catches Nami's falling body, he is blown away by her beauty, not initially recognizing her and believing he is saving a goddess. Absalom appears and confirms that Sanji is one of the Straw Hat Pirates, but stops mid-sentence as he is astounded by Nami's beauty as well. The two men briefly discuss their amazement at Nami's goddess-like appearance, much to the confusion of the observing zombies. Absalom catches himself agreeing with his enemy, and fires a blast at Sanji. Sanji appears behind Absalom with Nami in his arms still, highly upset that Absalom would use an attack with so much collateral damage while a lady is present. Absalom commends Sanji for dodging the attack, but notes that he no longer has a shadow. Recalling his earlier battle with Inuppe, and Inuppe's fascination with Nami, Absalom realizes that Inuppe must have Sanji's shadow. As Sanji sets Nami down, Absalom expounds on his assessment of Inuppe's strength, deeming him not worthy of being a General Zombie. Absalom is thus surprised that someone of Sanji's level would think that they could challenge him, as one of the "Mysterious Four" of Thriller Bark. Sanji doesn't appear to be listening at all, as he again confuses Nami with a heavenly figure due to her beauty. Absalom explains that his General Zombies have been defeated by Luffy's zombie, he has not yet kissed his bride, and doesn't have time for an underling of Sanji's level. Before he can finish his sentence however, Sanji lands a devastating kick to his face that sends him flying across the room. The zombies can't believe their eyes, revealing that Absalom weighs over three hundred kilograms. As Sanji takes a puff of his cigarette, he asks Absalom if he is the "Invisible Man" that Usopp mentioned to him earlier. In total shock at Sanji's strength, Absalom muses to himself that the enhanced strength Hogback augmented his body with shouldn't have been blown away so easily. He raises his arms to fire blasts at Sanji, but Sanji stands on them, parrying the blasts away in opposite directions. Sanji then proceeds to land an extremely powerful kick combo on Absalom: "Basse Cote", "Longe", "Tendron", "Flanchet", "Quasi", "Queue", and "Cuisseau ", all while berating him for peeking in on Robin and Nami in their baths. Absalom wonders to himself how an "underling" could be so powerful, as he endures more punishment and threats from Sanji. Sanji concludes by daring him to speak again of his marriage to Nami while he is present. Absalom attempts to go invisible to retreat, but Sanji uses Usopp's "Special Salt Balls", and snuffs him out with a "Veau Shot". Absalom is further confounded by Sanji's strength when he recalls that he didn't see a bounty poster for him. Sanji says that Absalom may be irritated, but he himself is about to explode with anger. An onlooking zombie looks on in amazement, as his body literally does. Standing with an aura of flames around him, Sanji states it is unfortunate that there also happens to be another connection between the two of them.

Having watched Sanji absolutely throttle Absalom, the bystanding zombies observe in awe as their master lay beaten on the floor. Absalom inquires about Sanji's aforementioned connection between the two of them. Sanji replies that Absalom is the man who has taken away one of his dreams. Absalom retorts that this must be some mistake, as this is his first time meeting the pirate. As he raises his arms to fire more blasts at Sanji, the chef warns Absalom to remove the bazookas mounted on his arm. When Absalom appears confused by this, Sanji clarifies that if any of the resulting destruction from Absalom's bazookas harms Nami, he will beat Absalom until his original form is no longer recognizable. Absalom dismisses the idea of Sanji realizing his secret, and fires at him anyway. Sanji dodges, and reminding him of his warning, lands a kick on Absalom's left arm that exposes the bazooka. As the observing zombies note the sudden appearance of the bazooka, Sanji elaborates that he realizes Absalom is capable of making the things that he touches invisible as well. Sanji reveals that Absalom has eaten the Suke Suke no Mi, and that he thus knows all of its abilities. Absalom wonders how all of this knowledge can be possible, while the zombies similarly question if the two have met before. Sanji explains that as a child, he studied a Devil Fruit Encyclopedia. While he was opposed to the associated "curses" of the sea for being a Devil Fruit eater, there was one item in it that if he found, he would eat despite the consequences. However, since there is only one fruit of each kind, if he came across the man who happened to have this ability, it would mean his dream is ruined. Absalom is thus the man who has ruined his dream. Sanji tries to explain how ideally he would be able to use the ability for others, but constantly catches himself voicing perverted intentions, to the shock of the onlooking zombies. Sanji concludes that thanks to years of simulation, he is fully aware of what can be done with Absalom's ability, and states that he won't forgive him for dragging Nami into this. Initially believing their connection to be more profound, Absalom ridicules Sanji's frustrations and calls him a pervert. This infuriates Sanji into landing another powerful kick on Absalom that sends him flying away. The zombies again comment on the irony of the fight, noting how they both are guilty of perverted intentions. Absalom's coat has been removed, and as he rises to his feet, he states that he will turn Sanji's grudge back at him. He goes on to explain the various augmentations Dr. Hogback made to his body: the skin of elephant, the 300 kilogram muscle mass of a bear and a gorilla, as well as the jaws of a lion. Adding the Suke Suke fruit to the mix, he claims his body is the ultimate piece of art. Sanji interjects with a hard kick to his head, telling him that he still peeped on women, which the onlooking zombies agree to. Absalom muses to himself that Sanji's kick is quite powerful, which makes his augmentations almost meaningless. He resolves to make himself invisible again, taunting Sanji that with the ability he always wanted, and by marrying the woman he is trying to protect, there will be no greater defeat for the pirate. Sanji recalls Usopp's story that they lost complete track of Absalom's whereabouts once he made Nami invisible too, causing him to hold Nami in his arms for protection. Absalom lands a powerful blow to Sanji's left jaw, causing him to lift Nami above his head as blood briefly spatters from his mouth. Absalom then unleashes a flurry of blows on a defenseless Sanji, taunting him for being a human sacrifice. This culminates in him stabbing Sanji through the back, forcing Sanji to put Nami down as he coughs up more blood. Absalom further ridicules the pirate for not sticking to his word, but Sanji apologizes to Nami for putting her down, as he did not want to get his blood on her white dress. Addressing Absalom again from all fours, Sanji comments that he no longer has any desire for his ability. Sanji says he will peep on his own, with the irony of the situation again befuddling the onlooking zombies. Sanji notices Absalom step in some of his blood, and grabs his leg. Sanji states that since Absalom is composed of different animals, he is perfect for making mince meat. Sanji removes the knife from his back and unleashes "Extra Hachis", delivering several powerful kicks in rapid succession to Absalom's invisible body. Absalom is flung across the room, and his invisible body crashes hard into the walls of the cathedral. As Sanji lights another cigarette, he tells Absalom that a beast bride is enough for a beast.
In the Mast Mansion, Usopp chases Perona through her room, as Kumashi chases Usopp. Kumashi dives for Usopp, and just barely misses him as he continues his pursuit. Usopp comments on the bear's speed & strength, before using "Hissatsu Flame Ball" to spread fire at its feet. This scares Kumashi away, and Usopp breaks a bottle of oil on the ground to create a perimeter of fire in the hallway. Usopp dubs his "You Can't Come Over Here" technique, and boasts that he no longer has a weak image due to overcoming both of his opponents. Usopp then turns his attention to catching up with Perona, who calls for him outside of a window. Usopp is flabbergasted that Perona is capable of flight, causing him to wonder just what her ability is. Perona tells him not to look down on the Ghost Princess, and asserts that she has just devised a plan to defeat him. Usopp laments that this was not supposed to happen.

As Usopp remains puzzled by Perona's ability to fly, she attempts to shake his newfound confidence by reminding him of how he was just running in fear from Kumashi. Perona asserts that her fear was simply a result of being caught in the moment, as she never imagined she would meet someone who was unaffected by her "Negative" Ghosts. She offers Usopp some words of encouragement, much to his annoyance. Usopp retorts that as a sniper, her ability to fly has no impact whatsoever on his ability to hit her. Usopp explains his new weapon, "Kabuto": It has five supportive stems that improve range and stability, in addition to a Breath Dial he obtained from Skypiea that adds enhanced speed to his projectiles. Furthermore, he also has Impact, Flash, and Flame Dials that can enhance the power of what he fires from Kabuto. After finishing his wordy description and preparing to fire a shot however, Usopp notices that Perona has vanished. She re-appears behind him, however in a gigantic form that completely terrifies Usopp. He fires "Ageha Ryusei" at her, but she changes back to her normal size and effortlessly dodges. Usopp follows up with "Kamakiri Ryusei", but she dodges this as well. Perona moves in and plunges her hands into Usopp, causing him to severely panic at the possibility of bleeding out. She points out however that he has no external injury, despite the appearance of her penetrating him. She instead states that her hands are around his heart, and she will smash it, causing Usopp to freak out all over again. This is revealed to be a bluff however, as she reveals that she doesn't have an ability like that. Usopp is still reeling, and notes that this is all bad for his heart regardless. Perona displays more of her powers; she shows that her body can pass through just about anything, which freaks Usopp out as she demonstrates by sinking into the ground leaving only her head visible. Usopp responds by firing "Rokuren Mamushi Boshi", but the six shots all completely phase through her body. Perona reminds Usopp that her body can go through anything, phasing through him once more as she asserts that his attacks are all useless.
Usopp grows frustrated, as Perona inquires about his plans now that he knows his attacks can't hit her. He counters that due to her bluff of being able to crush his heart, she must not be able to touch him either. She responds by creating "Mini Hollows", and one of them flys past Usopp into a wall. Perona snaps her fingers and uses "Ghost Wrap", which causes the hollow to explode in a shockwave that destroys part of the wall, much to Usopp's chagrin. Another hollow appears on his shoulder, and he frantically tries to get it off before Perona detonates it. Usopp quickly gets back to his feet and fires "Hi No Tori Boshi", though this simply phases through her as well. He attempts to run away, stating how unfair it is that her attacks can hit him but the reverse is not true. She cuts him off by phasing through his body again, which obstructs his vision long enough to cause him to run into a pillar. As he lay on the ground, he notices more Mini Hollows have attached themselves to him. Perona successively detonates them all over Usopp, causing him severe damage. Lying on the ground once more, Usopp muses to himself about his pathetic appearance, and how he was sure this woman as weaker than him. Before he can be absorbed in thought too long however, Kumashi reappears and smashes him further into the ground with a powerful swipe. Perona warns that Kumashi's strength is superior to that of a real bear, as Kumashi pummels Usopp further. Usopp again thinks to himself; he remembers that no one in the crew could stand against Perona's power, and that it was thus his responsibility to bring her down. He laments this his failure here will lead to her taking down the rest of crew, and that the load of being the one responsible for saving the crew for once was too heavy for him to bear. Usopp calls on "Sogeking" to help him once more, who responds to the call by jumping up and forcing a ball of salt down Kumashi's throat (Usopp is now wearing the Sogeking mask). Perona is mortified by Kumashi's purification, as Sogeking asserts "one down". Perona inquires about the mask, but Sogeking states that it is not a mask as he introduces himself. Perona is highly annoyed at the alter ego, as Usopp turns to run away again. Usopp and his Sogeking persona have an internal debate in which Sogeking attempts to persuade Usopp not to run, as he is a man that can get the job done when he needs to. Usopp does not believe it and continues to run, as Perona creates more mini hollows. As the mini hollows catch up to him, Sogeking implores Usopp to think about Perona's suspicious behavior. This prompts Usopp to ponder Perona's sudden shift in confidence. As she uses "Ghost Wrap" again to detonate the hollows and damage Usopp, he realizes that Perona wouldn't have run away at the beginning of the fight if his attacks were truly useless. He further notes her shift in demeanor occurred after Kumashi caused him to lose sight of her, and that she must have done something in that time. As Perona states that it is about time she brings Usopp to Gecko Moria, he remembers that there was a room somewhere in the area. Usopp spots a door adorned with curtains and fires "Atlas Suisei" at it, much to Perona's dismay. With one of the walls destroyed, Perona's true body is revealed to be motionless atop a bed.

Having finally pierced the veil on Perona's tactics, Usopp takes time to review the facts: Perona is visible to the naked eye, but is capable of phasing through people and objects effortlessly. She can also fly, and change her size at will, so a person who didn't know any better would assume that she isn't made of flesh and blood. However, based on how she ran from him as he chased her, it was clear in that particular instance that she did indeed have a physical body. He thus concludes that the Perona he has been fighting is merely a ghost that was created when he initially lost sight of her. Usopp calls attention to Perona's real body sitting motionless on a bed in the chamber in front of them, and asserts that he will no longer be fooled. Perona praises Usopp for being much more intelligent than she assumed, and notes how the Sogeking mask seems to have given him confidence. She clarifies however, that rather than a "ghost" that is being controlled by her real body, the form Usopp sees in front of him is her actual spirit. She is capable of separating this spirit from her physical body at will. Usopp questions what would happen if she has no physical body to go back to, as he fires "Daibakuhatsu Boshi" at it. Perona screams out in protest, but is relieved when the projectile appears to miss. Usopp states he needs to fire another shot, but Perona doesn't give him the chance, sending a "Toku Hollow" at him. Usopp surmises that this is a larger version of her "Mini Hollows", so allowing it to detonate would instantly kill him. The ghost bites down on his upper body, and Perona uses the opportunity to return to her physical body. As she re-awakens, she confirms that she can detonate this hollow as well by snapping her fingers, using "Kamikaze Rap". To her surprise, the ghost completely vanishes, and it is revealed that Usopp absorbed the blast using an Impact Dial. Before she can follow up with another attack, Perona realizes that her arm has been stuck to the bed. Usopp divulges that the attack he fired at her earlier was actually "Torimochi Boshi", and that he didn't miss, as his plan all along was to immobilize her once she returned to her physical body. This way, he could deal with both her physical and spiritual presences at the same time. As Usopp prepares to finish her off, a Wild Zombie, The Gallant Hippo, emerges and accosts Usopp for his defeat of Kumashi. Usopp however releases the absorbed impact from the Toku Hollow, instantly defeating the Hippo. Perona is in awe of the strength Usopp displays, though Usopp himself mentally notes the pain from the recoil of the impact dial. He fires "Kurobikashi Boshi" at the Ghost Princess, which results in cockroaches appearing all over her body. This is revealed to have been a ploy as well, as the attack is actually "Gokiburi Boshi". Perona screams in horror loud enough to be heard outside the mansion, as she frantically tries to get the roaches off of her and begs for Kumashi to come save her. Usopp says that she may be afraid of roaches, but she has a lot more to fear from him, as she truly underestimated him. As he pulls out the 10-Ton Usopp Hammer, he states that no one in the East Blue is feared more for their superhuman strength. Believing the hammer is truly 10 tons, a grief-stricken Perona asks where Usopp got this kind of strength from, and pleads for him not to hurt her. She continues to desperately beg to be forgiven and promises not to harm the Straw Hats, but this falls on deaf ears as he smashes the hammer down on her head with "Usopp Golden Pound". The "hammer" is revealed to be a balloon that pops instantly upon impact, but the psychological trauma of the attack causes Perona to pass out and foam at the mouth. Usopp expresses shock that the "Ghost Princess" of a haunted mansion wouldn't be able to tell a real hammer from a balloon, or plastic cockroaches from real ones, but nevertheless asserts that she had no idea who she was messing with when she tried to use negativity and lies as her weapons.
Elsewhere in Thriller Bark, Zoro is seen falling from the tower of Dr. Hogback's mansion as a flaming figure stands atop of it. Zoro crashes into one of the tower windows, and this figure is revealed to be Ryuma. Franky notes that the samurai appears to have said something, and Brook wonders what it means exactly. Brook however also notes that the fight is over, as he comments that he's never seen a fight like this. As Zoro lay motionless, Brook realizes that Ryuma never actually took him seriously in any of their fights.
In a flashback, it is shown that just five minutes earlier, Zoro and Ryuma had begun to face off with one another in Hogback's laboratory. Zoro has announced his intentions to take Shusui from the samurai, who comments on Zoro's abrasive nature. Ryuma inquires as to why Zoro wants his when he already carries three swords, and the latter clarifies that one of them is broken. Zoro however doesn't feel right not carrying it at all, as he is a Three Sword Style user. Ryuma has never heard of a 'Three-Sword Style' before, and wonders if it is some kind of circus act. Zoro laments that he won't be able to show the samurai, but nevertheless affirms that he will be breaking what's left of his nose. Ryuma shares in this disappointment, and notes that Zoro seems fairly powerful. In fact, he likens the anticipation of his fight with Zoro to when he fought a towering monstrous creature, but he can't seem to fully recall. Zoro charges Ryuma in an instant, and the impact of their blades clashing astonishes Franky and Brook. The force of the clash also rattles the tiles of the floor beneath them, as the two warriors exchange steel once more. Ryuma uses "Aubade Coup Droit", which Zoro is able to dodge at the last second. Although the attack is a thrust, it is shown to be powerful enough to weaponize the air itself and pierce a hole through the brick wall behind Zoro. Franky asks if Ryuma just fired a gun, and Brook notes that the technique has never been that powerful when he's used it. Zoro smiles, pleased with the strength of his opponent.

The sheer force of Ryuma's thrust leaves a large hole in the wall of Dr. Hogback's laboratory, as the zombie jokes that he's provided some ventilation. Brook finds himself awestruck at the physical strength Ryuma possesses to be able to launch an attack from his sword. Ryuma however notes that his clash with Zoro was a draw, as a deep slash suddenly appears above the doorway behind him. Franky is confused over just when Zoro launched a counterattack, and Brook replies that it was at almost the same time as Ryuma's attack. Brook goes on to explain that Zoro is also capable of making his attacks "fly" as well, and surmises that the two warriors possess similar levels of physical strength. Because of this, Brook doesn't believe that the fight will last very long.
Ryuma rushes Zoro with "Prelude: Au Fer", a series of thrusts which he recognizes as a weapon-breaking technique. Zoro counters with "Nigiri: Hirameki-Magura", two powerful attacks that force Ryuma backwards and cause the wall around him to crumble. Ryuma puts Zoro back on the defensive with a flurry of thrusts, before ultimately following up with "Gavotte Bond en Avant". Zoro responds in time with "Two Sword Style Iai: Rashomon", resulting in a clash where neither warrior appears to receive any damage. The shock waves from the attacks however cause one of the pillars supporting the laboratory to fall, and Franky realizes that this will completely destroy the floor. All three parties escape the collapsing room with force: Ryuma with "Polka Remise", Zoro with "Two Sword Style: Nanajuni Pound Ho", and Franky with "Weapons Left". Zoro and Ryuma land on opposing sides of the tower roof, while Franky and Brook fall to a different location below on the corner of the roof.
Zoro and Ryuma continue their battle, engaging one another before jumping back to their respective sides of the roof. Zoro runs to the other side and combats the samurai again, however this time Ryuma gets the better of him and causes him to lose his footing. Zoro uses the Sandai Kitetsu blade to stop his descent, and runs back up towards the tip of the roof with Ryuma in pursuit. Zoro then jumps down, engaging the samurai once again with a powerful downward strike. As the two swordsmen continue to duel, Brook wonders how they can keep up a battle this intense with such terrible footing.
With a brief pause in the battle, Zoro muses to himself that his katana may break if he keeps this up any longer - convinced that the samurai's strength is truly the real deal. He sheathes the Sandai Kitetsu, now solely wielding the Wado Ichimonji. Ryuma takes advantage of the slight pause, sending a slash so powerful that it completely slices off the tower roof. Brook and Franky show concern for Zoro's safety, but he is shown to have driven his blade into the roof so that he could hold on without falling to his doom. Zoro runs to the top of the falling roof, and jumps high into the air. As he descends, Zoro prepares "Hiryu: Kaen", while the samurai readies "Hanauta Sanchou: Yahazu Giri". In the final clash of the battle, Ryuma is sliced across the stomach. As both warriors fall, Ryuma's wound bursts into flames. Zoro crash-lands atop one of the windows, and the samurai admits his defeat. Ryuma expresses that Shusui has been at the side of a legendary swordsman, and that it would be blade's long-cherished ambition for Zoro to be its master. Unable to hear the dialogue, Franky asks Brook what the samurai has said. Brook affirms that the battle is now over, and is convinced that Ryuma never actually took him seriously in any of their duels. Dropping the Shusui down to Zoro, the zombie expresses remorse that he has allowed the great samurai's body to suffer defeat. Zoro is content with the zombie's sentiment, and states that he wished to have met Ryuma in the era he was alive. As the zombie's body becomes engulfed in flame, the shadow inside departs and returns to Brook, much to his delight. Zoro is quite content with his new blade, and resolves to pretend as if his match with the zombie never occurred.

Dr. Hogback taunts Nico Robin and Tony Tony Chopper, asking them how it feels to be subdued by the powers of their own nakama. Jigoro holds Robin at knife-point with one of his cutlasses, noting that he can't let his guard down around her due to almost being forced to eat salt. Robin acknowledges the General Zombie's strength, while Chopper on the other hand points out that Inuppe is no longer anything like Sanji after being willing to kick Robin. Hogback laughs this off, reinforcing that the zombies no longer have any memory of being Straw Hat Pirates. He goes on to say that they only recognize his command, and orders Victoria Cindry to finish them off. As she slowly approaches Chopper and Robin with a pile of plates, Chopper admonishes Hogback for his recent reign of terror. He explains how he held the doctor in extremely high regard, reverting back to "Brain Point" in the process: with Hogback branding his research as the "rebirth of the deceased" Chopper praised him for giving those who had passed away a chance to say words they never could, even if it was considered heretical science. Hogback responds by expanding on his frustrations of being a prodigy, stating how he at point was being visited by patients from all over the world because of his skills. He was capable of saving patients that other doctors could not, and ultimately felt that it was all more trouble than it was worth. Hogback directly challenges Chopper's views, saying that if he cannot recognize him as a doctor, then he has truly misunderstood. He asks the reindeer if he plans on preaching to him about what it means to be a doctor, and Chopper responds that he no longer recognizes Hogback as a doctor at all. He points out that the zombies are simply dead creatures that he makes move, and yells at Hogback not to make a fool of life. Hogback responds that is precisely what makes them alive, and thus the work he does is considered a miracle. He decides to demonstrate the zombies' recognition of commands once more by kicking Cindry to the ground and telling her to lick the floor, to which she obliges.
As Chopper grows indignant at the humiliating act forced upon Cindry, Hogback briefly speaks on his history wtih her while she was alive. Victoria Cindry was a famous actress, that had caught the eye of Hogback as well as all the men in the country. Cindry however did not indulge in her popularity, treating everyone with kindness and even sewing up Hogback's labcoat at some point. Hogback's marriage proposal was ultimately denied however in favor of her fiance, and he soon learned of her untimely death. Hogback could not handle the anguish, and eventually quit his job. It was at this point that he was approached by Gecko Moria. Hogback joined forces with Moria under only one condition; that the Warlord would resurrect Cindry. In this way he obtained an obedient Cindry; as he did not care for the personality of the girl that initially rejected him, only her beauty. He goes on to state that the two of them are mutually happy, as she once again is able to live as a human in this world - furthering Chopper's ire at the notion. Chopper demands Hogback make her stop licking the floor, and questions his definition of humanity. Chopper states that a human who's body and heart aren't connected is no longer a human anymore, and that Hogback is essentially just creating monsters. This steels his resolve even further, telling Hogback that for every zombie he creates, he leaves a human being miserable. Hogback tells the reindeer not to speak about "life" when he knows so little about medicine, and orders Cindry to attack him and Robin once more.
Cindry begins throwing sharp plates at the Straw Hats, a technique she refers to as "Kakuzaratou". Chopper transforms back into his Heavy Point and endures the cuts in order to grab both of Cindry's arms. Chopper tells her to stop, and she responds by smashing the entire stack of plates on his head. Hogback warns that he has increased her physical strength for combat purposes, and tells Chopper not to underestimate her because she is a woman. Chopper again tries to break through to Cindry, telling her that she doesn't have to listen to what Hogback says. She knees Chopper in the midsection several times, managing to free her left arm, but he grabs it once more. Chopper asks her how her family would feel about this, knowing that her wounds were horribly patched up and that she was turned into a soldier. Cindry responds by continuing to violently kick Chopper and demanding to be let go. Chopper further tells her that the heart she was born with is already dead, and her actions are being controlled by the words of a single man. Hogback again boasts of his accomplishment, stating that it has been mankind's ultimate dream to revive the dead. Chopper questions if it truly is ok that they can only move, and points out that Hogback is the one de-humanizing them by not allowing them true freedom. Hogback and Cindry alike are startled by this, while Chopper attempts to take advantage by having Robin feed Cindry some salt. Hogback however commands Inuppe and Jigoro to her aid, telling them to "get rid of anyone who interferes". Inuppe kicks Chopper hard enough to get him to release Cindry. Jigoro aims "Three Sword Style: Hyakuhachi Pondo Hou" at them, though Chopper and Inuppe able to dodge at the last second. Robin immediately seizes him with "Dieciseis Fleur", though he breaks away just as quickly. Inuppe feels slighted by Jigoro's earlier attack, asking the fellow zombie why he was attacking him too as they clash. While they argue over the clarity of Hogback's order, their fighting intensifies to the point that they are no longer paying attention to anyone else. Hogback tries to override the both of them, but Chopper prompts Robin to seal his mouth closed. As Chopper sits in astonishment that even Zoro and Sanji's zombies are at natural odds with one another, Robin suggests Hogback tell her and Chopper to jump off the tower. As Robin releases his mouth, Hogback does just that, however refers to Robin and Chopper as "you two". Jigoro and Inuppe promptly take this as an order, jumping out of the tower window and plunging to the depths before Hogback could re-word the command.
Now standing with just Cindry by his side, Hogback berates the Straw Hats for tricking him. Chopper states that the rest of the zombies will be purified once Luffy defeats Moria, and reaffirms his intention of defeating Hogback. A frantic Hogback orders Cindry after them once again, and is surprised when he doesn't hear an acknowledgment. Cindry states that her body won't move, and she has now broken into tears.

Hogback is outraged that Cindry has stopped following his orders and is crying, taking the opportunity to remind her how zombies live solely to follow the will of their masters. Cindry reaffirms that her current actions are involuntary, causing Chopper and Robin to note that the original owner of her body is still putting up resistance despite having died 10 years ago. Cindry regains a degree of control and states her intention to defeat the Straw Hats, pleasing Hogback, who plans to use her as a distraction for his escape. Robin expresses regret at now having to hurt Cindry, but nonetheless uses "Doce Fleur" to immobilize her. Hogback attempts to escape, noticing the mansion shaking again in the process and wondering if it is Oars. Chopper tackles him down, causing Hogback to curse him and call him a monster. Chopper retorts that his captain doesn't care about such things, and has all kinds of different people under his command because of this. He thus does not need to resort to corpses who have no will of their own to do his bidding. Chopper calls on Robin, who uses "Pierna Fleur" to prop him and Hogback high into the air. As Chopper prepares to suplex him, Hogback pleads that slamming him from this height will kill him, and that the world will thus lose a brain as valuable as his. Chopper states he does not care, as what's in the heads of Hogback and his colleagues stinks worse than the zombies.
In the Special Freezer Room, Luffy comes face-to-face with his zombie for the first time, noting that Oars is much bigger than any giant he's ever seen. Gecko Moria is delighted that Oars and Luffy's shadow seem to have finally synchronized, and asks the special zombie who his master is. When Oars affirms that it is Moria, Luffy angrily tells the new owner of his shadow not to take orders from the Warlord. Oars ignores Luffy's command, but takes notice of his Straw Hat. Moria gives Oars his first mission: to defeat the Straw Hat Pirates. He implores Oars to use the full extent of his power, not worrying about killing them. The beast agrees, and quickly remembers Luffy and his Straw Hat. Moria takes the opportunity to leave Luffy to his fate, who tries in vain to stop the creature from using "Gomu Gomu No Kane". Oars' headbutt completely destroys the wall, consequently destroying the room that Robin, Chopper, Hogback, and Cindry are in as well. Unable to complete his "Robicho Suplex" due to the floor collapsing, Chopper transforms into Walk Point and safely drops to Robin's location. As they take note of Luffy's zombie, Hogback and Cindry fall down to the lower levels of the mansion. A huge boulder lands on Hogback, preventing him from moving. He calls out to Cindry to help him, who once again states that she is unable to move as she looks up at Chopper. As Hogback hurls insults at her for refusing his commands, she gives Chopper a big smile. This catches Chopper and Robin's attention, but they are unable to make anything of it before Oars steps through the floor again, destroying it.
While running in the nearby corridor outside of Perona's room, Usopp notices that the shaking of the mansion is much more violent than it was before. Before he gets any time to mull it over, Oars crashes through the ceiling, causing him to run even faster.
Nearby in the church, Sanji notices the shaking as well whilst carrying an incapacitated Nami. Oars leg soon comes crashing through the ceiling, and Sanji wonders if this is in fact Luffy's zombie. He tells a still unconscious Nami that they need to run, but she instantly vanishes from his arms. After a sly remark from an unseen entity, Sanji deduces that Absalom is still present, and demands he show himself. Absalom retorts that it appears Oars is finally under their control, and he once again has his bride. Sanji fruitlessly tries to get him to give Nami back, before he is left to deal with Oars.
Oars fully breaks out of the mast tower, with Zoro, Franky, and Brook noticing from atop the ruins of Hogback's mansion. Franky and Zoro spot Sanji at Oars' feet, who is still looking for Nami. Elsewhere, Luffy has picked up on Moria's trail and is chasing him through one of the corridors of the mansion. Moria asks if he intends to chase him forever. Luffy acknowledges that Oars is quite a threat as well, but realizes that he must defeat Moria in order to return everyone's shadows. Back at the Church, Absalom reveals himself and remarks on the strength of his sleeping pills while holding Nami. He reveals that intends to continue his wedding to an unconscious Nami.
The special zombies have gathered around an incapacitated Perona, noting that she is foaming at the mouth and they need to get her out of the collapsing mansion. The zombies resolve to escape from the mansion, and fight to avenge Perona. Chopper and Robin catch up to Usopp in Perona's Wonder Garden, where he updates the pair that Luffy's zombie seems to be searching for them specifically. Oars loudly exclaims for the Straw Hat Pirates to show themselves, prompting different responses from the crew. Sanji and Usopp ponder if the zombie truly intends to fight them, while Robin seems assured that he's been given orders. Chopper is worried about their captain's well-being, and Franky wonders just how they can bring down Oars. Zoro on the other hand, notes that things are starting to get interesting.

Luffy pursues Moria, the latter of whom is distracting him while Oars tries to destroy the Straw Hats. Elsewhere, the rest of the Straw Hats confront Oars. Oars proceeds to attack everyone with a Gomu Gomu no Kama. Everyone is surprised that the zombie is able to use similar attacks to their captain. Chopper and Usopp are more shocked by the fact that Oars' reach and strength is so great that he doesn't even need to stretch. Sanji hits Oars in the head with Collier Clo, but he immediately is sent flying back. Franky notes the monster's great speed despite its massive size. Just as Oars is about to kill Sanji, Usopp stops him with his Firebird Star attack.
Oars demolishes the building that Franky's group was standing on with a jump kick. Zoro tries to attack Oars' head, but the latter dodges and sends Zoro flying with a kick, later Robin catches him with a Hand Net. Franky tries to shoot Oars down, but he too is unsuccessful in harming him. As Oars makes his way to the platform where the Straw Hats have regrouped, Usopp and Chopper attempt to stop him, but their efforts prove futile. Oars destroys the platform they're standing on, leaving all of them lying on the ground, barely conscious, mumbling over Luffy and his power.

After defeating most of the Straw Hats, Oars searches for the remaining three, Luffy, Nami, and Usopp. Meanwhile, Perona wakes up traumatized from her fight with Usopp. She races to find the mansion in ruins. The zombies inform her that the destruction is Oars' doing and tell her that he has also defeated all the zombie generals as well. Perona questions as to whether or not Oars has gone out of control when suddenly, Oars' fist bursts through the mansion, terrifying her. He asks if "the girl" is not in the mansion. Through a misunderstanding, Perona thinks Oars is after her since he trampled Hogback earlier as well, but in actuality, he was just looking for Nami. Panicking, Perona plans on stealing the Thousand Sunny to escape from Thriller Bark.
Elsewhere, the wedding ceremony is taking place and Nami regains consciousness. She avoids Absalom's binding kiss just in the nick of time. Irritated, Absalom tries to kiss Nami a few more times, but the latter manages to evade all of his attempts. Suddenly, Lola appears and crashes the wedding. She furiously yells at Nami, calling her a traitor. Both Nami and Absalom try to calm her down, but to no avail. Lola swings her swords at Nami and the latter figures out that the former has been missing on purpose. Lola reveals to Nami that everything was just an act and that she is there to help her escape Absalom. Angered, Absalom attacks Lola, knocking her unconscious. Enraged, Nami pulls out her Clima-Tact and defeats Absalom in one-shot with Thunder Charge. She then rushes to Lola's side and asks if she's alright. Lola smiles and tells Nami that she knew the truth the whole time about her being a woman.
Meanwhile, Oars is looking for the missing three crew members when the defeated Straw Hats reappear and confront him once again. They tell him that since he has the shadow of their captain, then he should know better than to underestimate the power of his crewmates.

While the Straw Hat Pirates comment on their plan to take down the giant zombie, Oars leaps into the courtyard and comments on how strong the pirates are. Declaring his intent to crush them, Oars jumps into the air again only to come down with a new technique unique upon himself; Gomu Gomu no Shirimochi. Avoiding this, the pirates scatter as Usopp mentions how ridiculous the technique is. Franky then calls out to Usopp and Chopper, announcing it was time to use Tactics Fifteen. Combining through a mecha-like transformation alongside Zoro and Sanji, they form Pirates Docking 6: "Big Emperor" with Franky as the main body, Chopper as the head, Usopp as a claw-like arm; and Zoro and Sanji acting as the legs. Quickly realizing Robin had not joined in, they try to convince her to 'dock' as well. She however refuses due to it being so embarrassing. Surprisingly Oars had also been watching in awe, and is equally disappointed that Robin would not join. Lashing out, Franky, Chopper and Usopp are sent careening into a nearby rock while Zoro and Sanji quickly run towards their opponent, shocked that they had even joined in and choosing to forget completely.
Kicking a large rock towards Oars, Sanji mentions his need to finish the fight quickly so he can save Nami only to draw attention to himself. Zoro is then seen putting his swords into Franky's Heavy Nunchaku asking for permission to use them, also asking Robin to hold one of Oars' arms down as he runs off. Seeing an opportunity, Usopp quickly fires his Tokuyo Abura Boshi underneath the hand Oars' was using as support, throwing off the giant's balance. During this moment, Sanji launches Zoro towards Oars at high speeds using Armee de L'Air Power Shoot, giving the swordsman the chance to land a direct blow on Oars' left arm with Dai Gekken. In order to throw the giant's balance off even more, Robin is able to hold down his left arm using Cien Fleur: Big Tree leaving the zombie with only a single leg to stand on. Coming up from the ground, Franky and Chopper are shown climbing Franky's Franky Sky Walk. Mentioning on how the staircase will not last long, both pirates leap towards Oars' head and connect their Super Frapper Gong combination technique with his jaw, Chopper explaining that a blow like that would cause his brain to shake inside his skull.
Stunned and off-balance, Oars can do nothing to defend himself as Sanji races towards him, taking out his last leg with an Anti-Manner Kick Course which flips and knocks the giant zombie down. Celebrating their achievement, the soldier zombies watching from a distance struggle to fathom the idea of somebody being able to knock down Oars, claiming even a thousand men would not be capable of it. Enraged at this turn of events, Oars swears to send the offending pirates flying.
Finally having escaped Absalom with the help of Lola, Nami returns to the mansion in search of the treasure room. Thinking back to what Lola had told her about Luffy's zombie, she correctly deduces that his zombie must have been the giant one she had seen previously in the freezer. Acknowledging the danger, Nami is still determined to find the treasure as to not leave empty-handed, but upon locating the treasure room she discovers it unlocked and empty.
Back at Thriller Bark's shore, Perona is seen ordering several of her zombie subordinates to fill the Thousand Sunny with treasure and supplies, planning to escape from the danger now posed to her by the battle raging on the island. Commenting on how she had only joined Moria for fun, now that her life was at risk she hoped to get away as fast as possible. On the dock, the zombies take quick notice of a new arrival who they note for looking like a bear. The mysterious new visitor inquires as to where Moria is.

The Risky Brothers lay defeated outside of the Treasure Chamber, having been electrocuted by Nami after interrogating them about the location of the treasure Perona had recently moved. Nami frantically dashes outside of the Mast Mansion, determined not to let the Ghost Princess escape with their ship and treasure. She is astonished by the architecture and good maintenance of the bridge she is running on. She then sees Oars collapse through a different bridge, and runs off as fast as she can, pretending that she didn't see anything.
Oars grows more irritated at the Straw Hats' efforts against him, but soon realizes that he is actually stuck in the ground due to his horns after he fell upside down. The Straw Hats visibly show diabolical smiles as they realize Oars is temporarily helpless and proceed to pummel him. The zombies elsewhere on Thriller Bark are astonished to hear Oars screaming because of this. However, Oars soon breaks free, causing the Straw Hats to tactically retreat. After he locates Chopper and Usopp, the two of them distract him by claiming that they see meat in another direction. While Oars falls for it, Zoro and Franky manage to knock him down on all fours by attacking the back of his knees. Franky is ecstatic at the crew's progress, stating they only need to hold the zombie back for a little longer before Luffy is able to beat Moria. Zoro, however, doesn't feel they should need to wait that long and resolves to defeat Oars himself, much to Franky's dismay. Usopp chimes in that they should wait for Luffy, but Sanji agrees with Zoro, stating that the others should just run if they want. Despite continued protests from Usopp, Zoro affirms his interest in testing out his new blade, Shusui, stating that black blades are world-renowned for their hardness.
Nami catches up to Perona and her subordinates at the edge of Thriller Bark, accosting her for the treasure and the Thousand Sunny. Perona is relieved that it wasn't Usopp who managed to catch up to her, but wonders how Nami got out of her wedding ceremony with Absalom. Confirming her intention to indeed steal the Straw Hats' treasure and ship, she prepares to deal with Nami herself. However, Nami notices a gigantic, imposing figure behind Perona, who soon notices this herself as well. After several of the zombies note that he caused a few of them to disappear without a trace, Perona reveals that the figure is Bartholomew Kuma of the Seven Warlords of the Sea. She goes on to note that the atrocities Kuma committed as a pirate are beyond scale, as several of the zombies panic that someone who holds the same title as their master has suddenly appeared in Thriller Bark. Perona is unnerved by the experience, but manages to regain her composure and answer the Warlord of the Sea after he inquires about Moria. She states she is leaving herself, and prepares to fight Kuma after he asks where she would like to go on vacation. Before she is able to actually attack, however, Kuma removes his right glove and causes her to disappear by simply touching her, much to Nami's befuddlement. The zombies are confused and outraged over what has happened to their princess, but ultimately decide against trying to fight the Warlord. Still frozen in fear, Kuma notices Nami and recognizes her as the "Cat Burglar" of the Straw Hat Pirates. He asks her if it is true that Luffy has a brother, after instantly appearing in her vicinity and causing her to wonder what kind of ability he is using. Seemingly pleased with the information Nami gives him about Ace, he leaves, assuring her that his interest in her captain is of none of her concern. Nami in turn is concerned about the threat Kuma's level of strength poses to her captain, she resolves to warn Luffy about him as soon as possible.
Elsewhere on the island, Luffy manages to catch up  with someone he believes to be Moria, but this is revealed to only be another one of Moria's "Doppelman" shadows. As dawn comes ever closer, Luffy wonders just where he is.

In the forest, Moria's shadow ditches Luffy. Luffy cries out in despair, reminding himself that he had promised to get back everyone's shadow including his, also reminding himself of the fate if they did not get it back: that they would burn in the sun if their shadows weren't returned.
Back at the fight with Oars, Zoro continues to battle Oars. Using his newly acquired sword, Shusui, saying the sword was heavier than his previous sword. Oars attempts to punch Zoro but the swordsman redirects the punch, amazing Usopp and Chopper. Zoro uses another move, which flies and nearly hits Oars. The zombie giant counts himself lucky, saying that the attack would have caused real damage if it hit. Zoro comments that he was still not strong enough to use the sword and says that the sword wasn't "well-behaved". Zoro says to thin air, that the sword was quite a gift from Ryuma. Oars tries to stamp on Chopper, Usopp, Sanji, Franky and Zoro but they all evade his massive feet. Zoro prepares to attack again, only to be stopped by Usopp. Usopp reasons that if they defeated Oars, only Luffy would get his shadow back. However, if Luffy somehow defeated Moria, they would be able to get all shadows back. Usopp suggests they all just believe in Luffy. Zoro replies with that he did believe in Luffy but that there would be obstacles: an "invisible man", "spirit woman" and "shadow master". He questions if they would actually allow Luffy to fight Moria face to face, saying that if they were to delay him till dawn, they would not be able to fight at all. Franky and Robin seem to agree. Zoro states that while Luffy was away, he would start doing some of the work. Franky looks up and determines that it was half an hour till dawn but the sunlight would not hit anywhere because of the thick mist surrounding Thriller Bark.
Suddenly, the ground starts shaking, startling the Straw Hats and Oars. A zombie shouts that they could start seeing shreds of sunlight. The soon form the conclusion that Oars had accidentally moved Thriller Bark out of the Florian Triangle due to his messing around earlier. A number of zombies run to Moria's room, alerting him of the situation. Moria tells them that he did not care as they were pirates, sailing wherever they wanted to. He states that he has very important matters to deal with and starts talking to his visitor, Bartholomew Kuma. Moria talks to Kuma, saying that Kuma was the only one Warlord of the Sea that carried out the World Government's wishes. Kuma asks Moria where he would like to go for a holiday. Moria tells him nothing, saying that he already knew of Kuma's special ability. The zombies stare on in awe at the giant Warlord. Kuma states that he had a report to deliver.
Due to Crocodile's defeat, the World Government had to choose a successor. Moria comments that there were a lot of pirates to go through and asks who the lucky pirate was. Kuma reveals the newest Warlord of the Sea, Marshall D. Teach. Moria states that he had no knowledge of a man named "Teach" or "Blackbeard". He questions the bounty and after getting a reply of "Zero", he comments that Blackbeard must have done a feat capable enough of getting the World Government to notice him. Moria laughs, saying that the world was in balance once more. However, Kuma with a stern face reveals he feels otherwise and says that the World Government was concerned. He talks about the recent Enies Lobby incident, revealing that the World Government had recently kept close tabs on the Straw Hat Pirates. They had concluded that if they followed the Log Pose from Water 7 to Fish-Man Island, they would most probably end up in Thriller Bark. He then reveals that the World Government fears that another Warlord could fall to the Straw Hats.
Enraged, Moria grabs Kuma and asks if all Kuma came to do was "protect" Moria. Kuma says that he would happily provide assistance if needed. This outrages Moria even more, shouting at Kuma, asking if he knew who he was. The zombies become terrified of their master's rage. Moria states that he could never be defeated by a crew of such inexperience. Kuma says that a battle had no certain outcome, saying that who could have dreamed of CP9's Rob Lucci being defeated. Moria, still enraged, asks Kuma that the reason why there two Warlords of the Sea on Thriller Bark was because the World Government was scared that Moria would lose. Kuma simply says that he was here to deliver a report and had no orders to participate in battle. Moria shouts that Kuma sit back and watch the battle and that he could deliver a report back to the pampered fools, that the pirates that had managed to outwit the Government were now part of the Gecko Moria Zombie Army.
The Straw Hats are worried about the mist as it had lifted, revealing sunlight. A voice coming from Oars laughs at the Straw Hats, saying they had no time to talk as dawn was coming. Usopp then sees Moria himself in Oars's belly, in a compartment. Even Oars is surprised and excited at the prospect of looking like a robot. Moria makes a deal, stating that if the Straw Hats could defeat Moria in battle, he would release their shadows. However, they would have to defeat Oars first. As each Straw Hat makes their comment about Oars, they all prepare to battle. Zoro instructs Usopp to go find a mountain of salt to purify Oars. Usopp quickly runs for the castle's kitchen, only to be stopped by Oars, the massive giant punching Usopp directly. As Chopper scrambles to get Usopp, a voice shouts out that Usopp was alright. Holding Usopp over his shoulder is Brook, holding a large amount of salt in a bag.

Having saved Usopp from Oars' attack, Franky is surprised to see that Brook is capable of movement at all. Brook reveals that upon finding salt in the kitchen, he also discovered some milk, which healed his injuries upon drinking it. Usopp argues that calcium doesn't act that quickly, but Brook stands his ground, retorting that milk heals broken bones. Sanji points out that the only way to the kitchen is now closed off, meaning that the salt Brook brought to them is their last hope. Brook is surprised to see Moria inside of Oars, who feels slighted at being referred to as a "passenger" and promises to show the Straw Hats what true nightmares are made of. Brook pledges to help the Straw Hats fight Oars as a gesture of gratitude for recovering his shadow, but quickly succumbs to pain. Zoro urges him not to push himself too hard, and take care of the salt. Usopp fires a "Special Oil Star", which Franky ignites, causing it to form a giant "Fire Bird Star" that hits Oars in the face. Moria urges Oars to calm down and put out the fire, as he is a zombie now and those kinds of attacks don't work on him. Meanwhile, Zoro jumps on to Chopper's hands, who gives him a boost high into the air over a nearby building. Zoro uses "Three Sword Style: Daibatsu Giri", slicing the building into several blocks as he descends. Sanji follows up Zoro's efforts by kicking the building pieces towards Oars, using "Jenga Cannon". Oars however punches the tower pieces back at the Straw Hats. Usopp and Franky form a giant slingshot from the rubble of nearby buildings, the "Kuwagata". Usopp comments on the crude design, but Franky assures him it will be fine as he prepares to launch himself directly at Oars' stomach. Franky then fires a mortar directly at Moria from point blank range, but Oars dodges and kicks Franky into a building. Moria commands Oars to finish Franky. Zoro and Chopper prepare to save him, but Nami electrocutes Oars with a powerful "Thunderbolt Tempo" that stops him in his tracks. While zombies elsewhere on the island seem certain that Oars somehow brought down lightning, a lovestruck Sanji calls out to Nami, who hushes him to avoid the special zombie discovering her hiding place. This proves to be to no avail, as Oars spots her immediately and aims an attack at her. While Nami and Chopper wonder if he can actually reach her from his location, Zoro has Usopp move Franky's body. To everyone's surprise, Oars completely destroys the section of the castle Nami is hiding on with a "Gomu Gomu no Pistol". Robin manages to save Nami, as the Straw Hats wonder how Oars has access to Luffy's devil fruit abilities all of a sudden. Oars then uses "Gomu Gomu no Whip", with the Straw Hats just barely managing to avoid his newly discovered range.
In a forest elsewhere on Thriller Bark, Luffy grows annoyed at a group of people that are blocking his path. They reveal themselves to be the "Rolling Pirates", and aware of Luffy's race against time. The Risky Brothers identify themselves in their human form under their Captain Lola, and explain to Luffy that he is their last hope for a mutual goal of defeating Moria. They go on to state that they understand the secret of Moria's power, and that they can give Luffy an incredible power in order to beat him. This piques Luffy's interest.

Luffy is introduced to the captain of the Rolling Pirates, Lola. Immediately proposing to marry him, she is rejected for the 4,444th time but is unperturbed by this. The Risky Brothers explain to Luffy that they too have had their shadows taken and have resorted to hiding in the forest. However they are overjoyed at the chaos the Straw Hat Pirates have brought to Thriller Bark with three of the Mysterious Four now out of the equation. They are also aware of the danger posed by the special zombie; Oars. Determined to get their shadows back though, they beg Luffy to defeat the special zombie and Moria but not without offering some help. Bringing out a captured shadow, before Luffy can react they push it into his body. Gaining black rings under his eyes, they then ask Luffy if he can use a sword to which he says not a chance, only to be handed a sword and proceeding to cut apart a nearby tree easily.
Surprised with what he just did, the Rolling Pirates explain that if a shadow is placed inside a living body, they will gain the skills of the shadow's original owner, but because it is not their own shadow they can only retain the abilities for ten minutes. Choosing to put all of their hopes into the young pirate, they bring out all of the shadows they had captured over the years and implant them all into Luffy. Taking in all one hundred of them, the Rolling Pirates can only watch on in amazement as a giant silhouette comments on how powerful he feels. With Lola naming him 'Nightmare Luffy' he then runs towards the mansion, destroying the forest in his way.
In the mansion's courtyard however, the fight against Oars is taking a turn for the worst as he continues to take advantage of his new found stretching ability. Attacking the Straw Hat Pirates with Gomu Gomu no Kane and immediately following up with Gomu Gomu no Yari, they are left bewildered at his sudden increase in power and question Moria as to how he is stretching. The Warlord explains that it is a result of his Devil Fruit's power, Kage Kakumei. With it, he is capable of altering the shape of a shadow; which in turn alters the shape of the substance. Chopper likens it to reversing nature, and Moria demonstrates the limit of this power by turning Oars into a giant sphere, Oars Ball. Frustrated with his master's interference, Oars asks him to stop controlling him and allow himself to fight. Promising to provide Oars with support, they go to resume the fight. Nami questions where Luffy had disappeared to, only for Usopp to mention Moria tricking him into getting lost. As she is wondering if she should let the others know another Warlord was on the island, Brook interrupts by presenting an idea.
Through a combination of Usopp's Kuwagata, Nami's Dark Cloud Tempo, Robin's Slalom Vine and Brook's Gavotte Bond en Avant they perform the team combination technique Raikotsuken: Gavotte Bond en Avant which pierces right through Oars' right shoulder. Congratulating Brook on his effort, Zoro follows up with an attack of his own, vertically cuts Oars' body using Nigiri: Toro. However rather than focusing on Zoro now, Oars instead finishes off Brook using Gomu Gomu no Ono.
Trying to defend the skeleton, Usopp attacks with Hissatsu: Atlas Suisei which only serves to anger Oars further as he blocks the projectiles with his arm. Launching a Gomu Gomu no Bazooka, the giant immediately realizes he is no longer stretching. Questioning this, it is revealed that Robin had caught Moria using Ochenta Fleur: Cuatro Manos and threatens him to stop controlling Oars' shadow.

While Nico Robin subdues Gecko Moria with her Ochenta Fleur: Cuatro Manos technique,  Oars begins to wonder why he is unable to stretch anymore, and Usopp thanks Robin for saving him. As Moria advises Robin that something like this will be unable to stop him, he suddenly appears behind her and uses Brick Bat, forcing Robin to desperately defend herself with Veinte Fleur: Calendula. Robin falls to the ground, overwhelmed by the many shadow bats, prompting an enraged Sanji to destroy the bats with a flurry of kicks, saving her. The shadows of the bats then form a shadow doppelganger of Moria behind Robin, who is surprised by this but she comments that she mustn't let Moria's shadow distract her as she concentrates on defeating Moria's real body, knowing if he goes down his shadow also will.
As she uses Cuatro Mano: Clutch to physically cripple Moria's real body, the Straw Hats begin to celebrate their victory until Moria suddenly appears behind Robin, commenting he can switch locations with his doppelganger anytime thanks to his Kage Kage no Mi powers. As Moria notes he won the long-range battle he had against Robin, he proceeds to take her shadow, knocking her unconscious. Sanji, furious, unleashes his Diable Jambe and proceeds to attack Moria, however he had switched places with his doppelganger and has reappeared in Oars' stomach. With Moria back in Oars' stomach, Oars regains his ability to stretch, and he proceeds to finish off the unconscious Robin with a Gomu Gomu no Bazooka, only for Sanji to deflect the attack with his Diable Jambe: Frit Assorti.
As Sanji orders the others to move Robin to a safe location, he confronts Oars, only for Chopper, who has been examining Oars' body this entire time, to inform Sanji and Zoro that Oars' cause of death when he was alive was an external cause. Chopper, noting that Oars was frozen to death 500 years ago and that the joint in his right arm was severely frostbitten, tells Zoro and Sanji that Oars' weakness was his right arm. Chopper also claims that Oars was frozen to death while not wearing any clothes, prompting Zoro and Sanji to comically proclaim that they don't want to lose to an idiot like him.
Chopper explains that as a zombie, Oars doesn't feel physical pain, but he can still take damage, so if his right arm was immobilized his attack power would be halved. Annoyed, Oars grabs Chopper from his right shoulder, only for Chopper to turn into his Brain Point form to avoid being crushed. Telling Oars that the gap in his fist is like a cave, Chopper eats a Rumble Ball, uses Jumping Point to jump from Oars' fist and uses Arm Point to prepare for an attack. As Sanji runs up Oars' arm to offer Chopper a hand, they both proceed to use Armee de L'Air Kokutei Roseo Shoot on Oars' right arm. Oars claims that the attack will not work, only for Chopper to correct him saying all the damage he accumulated will eventually kick in.
As Oars prepares to attack them, Zoro shouts for Sanji and Chopper to get away, but it is too late as Oars pummels them both with Gomu Gomu no Gatling. With Sanji and Chopper defeated, and Robin and Brook unconscious, Moria excitedly exclaims that there are four down and three (Zoro, Nami, and Usopp) to go.

Gecko Moria laughs and exclaims there are five Straw Hats (Franky, Brook, Robin, Sanji, Chopper) down and three left (Zoro, Nami, Usopp) to go. As Nami and Usopp begin to panic, not knowing what else to do to battle Moria and Oars, Zoro tells Usopp he will give him a shot and proceeds to attack Oars' right arm, using Three Sword Style: Yasha Garasu. When Oars proclaims that the attack is not going to work, Zoro prepares to use Tora Gari, only for Oars to directly knock Zoro into a building, severely injuring him, and leaving two Straw Hats left still standing. Usopp then fired something into Oars' mouth, which was revealed to be salt. As Usopp explains to a confused Nami that salt is a zombie's main weakness, Luffy's shadow begins to come out of Oars' mouth, only for Moria to use his shadow to take the salt out and throw it back to a perplexed Usopp. Out of options, Usopp and Nami begin to lose hope, as Oars uses Gomu Gomu no Stamp to smash them both. A mysterious figure then appears on the side of Oars, asking him what does he think he is stomping on.
The mysterious figure turns out to be Luffy, having saved Usopp and Nami from Oars, however he has a bulkier and more sinister appearance than normal. Nami and Usopp then thank Luffy for saving them, before they show surprise that it's him. As Usopp tells Luffy to be careful as Oars can use all of his techniques and even stretch himself, and as Moria wonders if Luffy is capable of transforming himself, he exclaims that it doesn't matter and commands Oars to use Gomu Gomu no Rifle, only for Luffy to effortlessly block the attack with his hand, much to the shock of everyone. Luffy, telling Oars that "there is only one Monkey D. Luffy", punches Oars away.
The zombies of Thriller Bark notice a cloud above them, only for them to immediately realize that it's actually a flying Oars from being punched by Luffy, and proceed to evacuate the area. Much to the disbelief of the zombies, Nami, and Usopp, Luffy proceeds to pummel Oars around.

As Luffy continues to battle Moria and Oars, a number of mysterious figures go to where the defeated Straw Hats are, noting they have severe injuries and one of them is reduced to bones (not knowing of Brook and his circumstances), calling them the comrades of their "ray of hope". Nami and Usopp, not knowing what the mysterious figures were planning, both agree to get down there. The figures were revealed to be Lola and the Rolling Pirates, who were moving the Straw Hats to a safe location. As they took extra care of the ones who had their shadows taken, Lola says they are counting on Nightmare Luffy.
Meanwhile, Oars is continuing to be beaten around by Nightmare Luffy. The zombies of Thriller Bark, witnessing the entire battle, are surprised that Oars, dubbed by them as a "demon", and his giant body is being pummeled around, even with their Lord Gecko Moria currently residing in Oars' stomach.
Back at the palace, Lola and the Rolling Pirates explain to Nami and Usopp of Luffy's current state, apologizing for suddenly placing all of their hopes and strengths onto Luffy, further explaining he has 2 or 3 minutes left in that state. While Lola comments that dawn is not far off and that these next few minutes will decide their fate, Nightmare Luffy continues his relentless assault on Oars, throwing him back into the palace. As Oars prepares to attack Nightmare Luffy with a Gomu Gomu no Bullet, Nightmare Luffy uses his sword to counter the attack by slashing Oars across his chest (one of the shadows in Luffy is that of a skilled Marine swordsman). Moria, wondering why Oars is getting beaten around by a lone pirate and if he should leave his stomach for the time being, is then punched straight in the face by Nightmare Luffy's Gomu Gomu no Pistol, the impact also knocking Oars back.
With Nightmare Luffy's time running out, he proceeds to counter Oars' Gomu Gomu no Ono and ultimately attempt to finish off the giant and Moria with a Gomu Gomu no Storm. As Oars crashes into the palace, seemingly knocked out along with Moria, the shadows begin to come out of Luffy. With Luffy laying on the ground, clearly exhausted, Lola and the Rolling Pirates announce the defeat of Oars and Moria and that Thriller Bark has fallen.

Oars appears to be done for but just as the rejoicing begins, he gets up again. As the Straw Hats recover and begin to launch an assault on the giant, Zoro tells the Rolling Pirates to quickly get out of their way. Robin uses a Pierna Fleur to make multiple feet grow out of the outer wall of the tower, allowing Brook to carry Luffy to the top of Thriller Bark. Nami then uses a Rain Tempo, completely soaking Oars (with the Rolling Pirates deducing she is some kind of wizard with her abilities). Franky and Usopp then use the Super-Large Freezer Ultra-Cold Blast (fired from a machine made on the spot) to freeze Oars's legs, having been soaked from Nami's rain previously. Sanji and Chopper then ensnare Oars in the chain of the rudder.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Brook have arrived at the top of the mast, and are preparing for the final attack. Chopper tells Zoro to tuck in Oars's stomach, which Zoro does with his Santoryu Ougi: Sanzen Sekai technique. Sanji then kicks the chain to pull Oars upright and straighten his spine. Chopper explains that normally a human spine is curved to absorb shock, but with it straightened out the spine will be shattered, allowing Oars to receive the full brunt of the attack. Luffy tells Brook to throw him towards Oars, also telling a concerned Brook that he will be fine because he is made of rubber. Brook proceeds to do so, as Luffy uses Gear 3 to inflate both of his arms and prepare his Gomu Gomu no Giant Bazooka. Oars attempts to Gomu Gomu no Bazooka Luffy right back, but cannot use his right arm due to all the damage he accumulated so far. Oars was unable to realize this due to the fact zombies cannot feel pain, proving Chopper's point from earlier in the battle. Luffy's "Giant Bazooka" shatters Oars' spine and Oars becomes paralyzed, unable to feel the pain but also being unable to move.

The Rolling Pirates and zombies of Thriller Bark announce that Oars has finally been defeated. While the Straw Hats rest after the decisive battle, Usopp immediately realizes the fight isn't over yet as he yells to Luffy to get everyone's shadows. Lola suggests to beat Moria awake and make him give the shadows back, as the sun is about to rise. Moria, regaining consciousness, says there is no need to wake him as he proclaims to Luffy that he wrecked so much havoc over his Thriller Bark. Moria tells Luffy that even though he has a fine crew, they are nowhere near ready for the New World. As Moria proclaims that due to him losing his comrades while they were alive and that zombies are immortal, he proceeds to absorb many shadows from the entirety of Thriller Bark, using his Shadow's Asgard technique. Moria deduces that Luffy had absorbed 100 shadows to become Nightmare Luffy, noting that while he is growing big, he is absorbing 1,000 shadows into his own body. Moria, showcasing his new strength from absorbing 1,000 shadows, proceeds to punch the ground, creating a huge fissure.
The morning sun begins to peek throughout the island, exposing a pirate's body as he proceeds to disappear, prompting the others to hide in the shade of the buildings and the forest for the time being. As the Rolling Pirates are retreating, Lola stays put, noting the Straw Hats are also not retreating despite also missing their shadows, and also telling them that since they got the Straw Hats into this mess, they should stand firm along with them and not flee. As Luffy tells his crew that he is going to go wild and that they should take care of everything afterwards, Zoro and Robin note that Moria is barely in control of himself and that he's given up on reason in exchange for power due to his pride. Activating Gear 2, Luffy prepares his final battle with Moria.

The sun starting to rise is making everyone despair. Lola and the Straw Hat Pirates who lost their shadows stand patiently for the sun or Moria to eliminate them. Meanwhile, Luffy activates Gear 2. Moria tries to attack Luffy but he dodges Moria's attacks. Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Jet Rocket on Moria and causes him to spew out some shadows. Luffy then uses Jet Rocket and Jet Bazooka, causing more shadows to be released. Moria starts to lose consciousness and lose control of the shadows. Luffy begins another attack but his attack is interrupted by Moria using Bat Bricks to create a shadow cage and traps Luffy in it. He then smashes the shadow cage against a wall.
The onlookers worry for Luffy. The shadow cage becomes misshaped and falls on the ground. Moria then plans to smash the cage by stepping on it with his foot. The onlookers scream to him to stop, but Moria ignores them and continues to step on the cage. Luffy's arm is later seen out of the cage. Moria tells the onlookers that is what will happen if they challenge a Warlord of the Sea. Brook and Chopper notice Luffy and scream his name, Luffy then breaks out of the shadow cage and stands up. He tells Moria that he cannot even dream of defeating him because he is a rubberman.
The onlookers wonder what is going on and the sun starts to rise higher burning half of one of the onlookers. The others suggest him to hide. Meanwhile, Luffy activate Gear 2 and Gear 3 at the same time, Chopper tells him not to over do it and if he does his body will be torn apart. He continues to use both and attacks Moria with Gomu Gomu no Giant and Jet Shell. The shadows start to leak out but Moria forces to control them by closing his mouth with both of his hands.
Lola starts to yell out to her shadow to return to her while she is getting burned by the sun. Some of her crew mates get her into cover from the sun since her body was disappearing. They then follow her lead and scream out to their shadows to come back to them. Luffy also does the same but asks his shadow if he wants to be the pirate king then he has to stay with Luffy. He later attacks Moria again. More shadows leak out of Moria, and then he falls down on his back releasing the rest of the shadows. But, the sun being higher in the sky starts to annihilate everyone without a shadow.

Usopp, Nami, Chopper, and Franky all begin to panic as the bodies of Zoro, Robin, Sanji, and Luffy (still shrunken from using Gear 3 earlier) all begin to disintegrate, due to their shadows being robbed from them. Several members of the Rolling Pirates also panic due to the bodies of a number of members, along with Lola, also begin to disintegrate. A perplexed Franky wonders why the bodies are disintegrating when Gecko Moria has been defeated.
Meanwhile, somewhere on the Grand Line, a pirate asks his captain to come onto the deck of their ship, with the captain refusing because their bodies would disappear in the sunlight, their shadows being taken by Moria 2 years ago. The pirate exclaims to the captain that their shadows have returned, prompting a celebration. A pirate wonders if Moria has been defeated, only for the captain to say that's impossible, as Moria equally fought with Kaidou, one of the Four Emperors. Pirates, marines, and civilians around the world begin to notice that their shadows have returned to them, much to their happiness.
Back on Thriller Bark, much to the relief of the other Straw Hat Pirates, Zoro, Robin, Sanji, and an unconscious Luffy's bodies turn back to normal, their shadows having returned to them. Chopper also points out the shadows of the Rolling Pirates have also been returned. With Moria defeated, and everyone's shadows back in their original bodies, the Straw Hat Pirates all begin to take a well-deserved rest.
Back in the castle, Absalom is woken up by Hogback, who proceeds to call him shameful for losing, and proceeds to inform him of Moria's defeat. Back at the courtyard, Zoro asks Chopper if Luffy's body was shrunken before, and Chopper tells him that Luffy's body shrinks as a side effect of his Gear 3. Usopp begins to grow worried that Luffy's new fighting style is too harmful to his body, as he would have to keep using it if more powerful enemies appear in the future. The old man the Straw Hat Pirates met back at the graveyard, along with Lola and the Rolling Pirates, all express their gratitude for saving them and proclaims they will never forget this. Zoro explains that they did what they did for their own reasons, and that the others were saved as an extra, only for Nami to berate him due to the others offering to repay them.
Suddenly, Nami begins to show signs of true terror and fear, having forgotten that another Warlord of the Sea was present at Thriller Bark. As the other Straw Hats ask her what she is afraid of, Bartholomew Kuma is shown to be sitting on a building, talking to someone on a Den Den Mushi. The mysterious person shows perplex that another Warlord has been defeated, as soon as they had found a replacement for Crocodile. As Nami explains to the others that Kuma is a Warlord of the Sea, the mysterious person talking to Kuma hopes that the defeated Moria would be soon able to continue to be a Warlord, as the fact that another Warlord was defeated would hamper their reputation. The mysterious person, revealed to be a representative of the World Government, also explains to Kuma that there should be no eyewitnesses of Moria's defeat, and instructs him to assassinate everyone present at Thriller Bark.
Usopp shows concern that they are forced to engage another Warlord of the Sea right after defeating one, and Zoro tells him that he'll handle it, as Nami begins to explain that Kuma is an ability user. Kuma teleports in front of the crowd, surprising everyone. While several members of the Rolling Pirates desperately trying to attack him. Kuma, showing off his powers, fires some kind of cannon from his hand to effortlessly knock the pirates back. Teleporting right behind Zoro, Kuma identifies him and exclaims he'll be the first.

As members of the Rolling Pirates try to tend to the pirates attacked by Bartholomew Kuma, Lola comments that this is cruel, as they battled for their shadows for years, and as soon as they are free, another Warlord appears to assassinate them all. As the Rolling Pirates try to challenge Kuma, commenting he is nothing compared to Gecko Moria and Oars, Zoro yells at them to stand back, reminding them that Kuma challenged him first and threatened them not to humiliate him. Kuma comments to Zoro that they have earned quite the reputation and that Luffy gathered a number of skilled crew members, the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates show signs of modesty that Kuma complimented them, only for them to be told not to be flattered by Lola. As Kuma further comments that it is no longer just Luffy who is being noticed, Usopp yells at Zoro not to fight as he is too beaten up. While Zoro comments that if he dies here, it would show his limits as a man, he attacks Kuma with Nitoryu Iai: Rashoumon, but Kuma teleports behind him, preparing to attack him with his palm.
Zoro, noticing something odd about his palm, dodges the attack. Kuma's paw is shown to leave a paw-shaped mark in the rubble. Kuma fires another paw-shaped attack at Zoro, who barely dodges it. Usopp notices that while Kuma has hardly done anything, Zoro is breathing hard. As the others point out that Kuma has paws on his hands, Zoro attacks him with Sanjuroku Pound Ho, but it was deflected by Kuma's paws, causing Zoro to realize Kuma has the ability to repel everything.
Kuma explains that he has eaten the Nikyu Nikyu no Mi, becoming a paw-man. As Franky does not take this seriously, wondering if there are "cute" Devil Fruits in the world, he begins to wonder if Kuma isn't a big threat after all, only for Kuma to attack him with Pad Ho, asking Franky if this is the limit of his strength. Robin deduces that Kuma can repel the air itself, commenting that normal cannons have no effect on Franky. Kuma then attacks Zoro with Tsuppari Pad Ho, but Zoro manages to dodge them and attacks Kuma with Toro Nagashi, however the attack was blocked by his paws, sending Zoro crashing to the ground. As the Rolling Pirates wonder how Zoro can keep on fighting due to his injuries from Oars, as they were enough to kill a normal man, Kuma prepares to attack a fallen Zoro, only for Sanji to attack Kuma's face with Concasse.
Sanji's attack didn't seem to phase Kuma, as he falls to the ground, holding his leg in pain. Sanji begins to wonder if Kuma's body is made of steel. Usopp, panicking, attacks Kuma with his Fire Bird Star. Kuma deflects this attack effortlessly as well, identifying Usopp as "King of Snipers" and Sanji as "Black Leg." Kuma, commenting that due to the weakness of the Straw Hats makes him think defeating them is no fun at all, prepares a large-scale attack. As Robin and Nami point out that compressing a large amount of air to a small state can trigger a devastating explosion, Kuma announces that he will spare everyone's lives, in exchange for Luffy's head. Usopp asks Kuma if he expects them to sell out their friend, while Kuma asks them what their decision is, as if the World Government is handed Luffy's head, they will not complain that the rest of them have been spared.
The Straw Hat Pirates, along with Lola and the Rolling Pirates, bravely yell to Kuma that they will decline, telling him to "forget it." As Kuma expresses disappointment in their decision, telling them that it is a pity, Kuma launches his Ursus Shock attack, causing a huge explosion.

Thriller Bark is still floating, but everything on the island is destroyed due to Kuma's Ursus Shock attack. The Rolling Pirates and Straw Hat Pirates all appear to be badly injured and knocked unconscious. Kuma passes by all of the knocked out pirates, stopping at where Luffy is at. He picks Luffy up, but Zoro suddenly comes out and attacks Kuma with Ittoryu Iai: Shishi Sonson, revealing Kuma's body as metal. Kuma then fires a laser from his mouth, which Zoro barely dodges but it ends up grazing him. Kuma then reveals that he is a Pacifista created by the World Government, a superior cyborg in comparison to Franky. Zoro has no idea what that is, so Kuma goes on to explain what a Pacifista is, saying that they were made by the scientist Dr. Vegapunk, and made advancements that others would have made five hundred years later.
Zoro asks why he must kill Luffy, and he says it's his best offer. Zoro, commenting that his body is too battered to do what he tells it to do, offers Kuma to take his head instead of Luffy's, and Kuma asks him why he would give up his ambition to be the world's best swordsman and die in Luffy's place and how would his ambition be satisfied if Zoro dies. Zoro responds by saying Luffy must become the Pirate King. Sanji then intervenes and says that Zoro is an idiot and Kuma should kill Sanji if someone must die, also commenting that while Sanji's bounty isn't particularly high, he would soon be the most dangerous member of the Straw Hat Pirates. Zoro then knocks Sanji out, and Sanji calls him a bastard for it before fainting. Zoro throws his swords on the ground, continuing his deal with Kuma.
Kuma, admiring Zoro's spirit, remarks that his honor would be at stake if he laid a hand on Luffy after this. Telling Zoro he will experience hell, Kuma picks Luffy up and uses his powers and extracts all of Luffy's pain and fatigue. Kuma allows Zoro to have a taste, giving him a small amount, which appears to greatly injure Zoro and leave him on the ground in pain. Zoro then decides he wants to move to another location. Later, Kuma comments about how amazing Dragon's son is to have such great companions. Sanji and everyone else wake up to find Kuma gone and Luffy is miraculously better and no longer injured. Sanji, noticing Zoro is not with them, goes off to find Zoro extremely wounded with blood scattered all over the area. Sanji asks Zoro what happened and if he's still alive, and Zoro replies that nothing happened.

An unseen vessel leaves Thriller Bark as two men wonder where Perona is. Absalom shuts off his invisibility to reveal that he and Hogback are on a smaller ship with a still-unconscious Moria. Absalom wonders what 'Tyrant' Bartholomew Kuma was doing on Thriller Bark. Hogback claims that before they were de-shadowed, the three zombies Gyoro, Nin, and Bao told him that Kuma had come to report that a new Warlord of the Sea had replaced Crocodile- a pirate named Blackbeard. Absalom reads a newspaper article stating that the Whitebeard Pirates' Second Division Commander Portgas D. Ace is now being held in Impel Down. Hogback claims that with such an infamous Whitebeard Pirate in their custody, the World Government scored big, and it could mean a change in the Grand Pirate Era, so it's no time for Moria to be out. Absalom concedes the point, but he just wants to get married. Hogback offers to produce a zombie of his liking, Absalom yells that he wants to marry a human.
Back in Thriller Bark, a whole day has passed since Moria's defeat. On the Thousand Sunny, Luffy demands food, but Sanji tells him to just eat cheese instead. Luffy complains that cheese cannot fill him up, and Sanji tells him to move everything to the courtyard, where the Victims Association are. Lola explains that it's because they have not felt the sun in so long and they want to spend as much time as possible in the sun, while Usopp wonders at Luffy's energy. Lola wonders who could've stocked the Sunny with so much food and treasure, which Nami is enjoying. Luffy finds a glass armband in the pile, and when Usopp gets nervous about Nami's reaction, she explains that she will let Luffy keep it, as it does not have any jewelry in it. She goes to tell Lola that she will not get any either, but Lola tells Nami that they weren't planning on taking anything from their saviors. Lola wonders why she added 'zo' to Nami's name, and Nami realizes that Lola's shadow was used to animate the Zombie-Lola. Grateful to see her friend in human form, Nami gives Lola some treasure, shocking Luffy and Usopp.
In the courtyard, the Straw Hats begin setting up for their feast, while Chopper takes care of Zoro, wondering how the swordsman could've gotten so heavily injured. As the Straw Hats try to figure out if something happened with Kuma, the Risky Brothers chime in, claiming to know what happened. Before they can talk, though, Sanji takes them aside for a private discussion. The brothers tell him what Kuma did to Zoro in the previous chapter. They want to tell everyone, but Sanji orders them not to; Zoro did not take Luffy's suffering to be thanked, and Luffy would feel awful if he knew what had happened. The Risky Brothers are amazed at how cool Sanji is, unaware that their conversation had been overheard by Robin, using her Hana Hana no Mi powers. When Luffy asks what happened, the brothers just imitate Sanji, claiming that since everyone's alright, it's no big deal, confusing him.
Soon the feast is well underway, with Brook launching into his usual skull joke antics, with Franky chiming in. Brook soon pulls up a piano, offering to play background music. He confides in Sanji that he also saw what was going on with Zoro, amazed at the men of the crew. As he plays Binks' Sake, Robin and Luffy claim to have heard this song before, the latter from Shanks' crew. Brook explains that the song is one that all pirates of old sang. Luffy asks if Brook is gonna join the Straw Hats, now that his shadow is back. Brook begins to explain about Laboon, but Luffy claims he already knows, as the Straw Hats saw Laboon at the Twin Capes. Usopp and Sanji vouch for Luffy, and the Straw Hats captain offers his amazement that Brook was part of the crew Laboon was waiting for. Shocked, Brook begins to tear up at the thought of Laboon still alive and waiting.
Brook's flashback begins. A small whale follows a pirate ship, and its crew wonders if it's lost. A tall, skinny violin player with an afro offers that they should play the baby whale a song, because the Rumbar Pirates can bring a smile to any face. The ship's captain Yorki agrees, and that they should play 'that song.' As they play, the sad whale begins to cheer up.

The chapter begins continuing the flashback started in the previous chapter. This is 50 years ago. Brook is revealed to have been 38 years old during the flashback. Brook wakes the entire crew, telling them to start today's song. He announces that they will sing Black Handkerchief of Happiness and asks everyone to sing along. As Brook sings, some of the pirates tell Brook to stop the noise in the morning, while others shout that they are awake. Yorki tells Brook to play "that song". Brook accepts, commenting that that is the captain's favorite song. Suddenly, the whale sings near the ship. One of the pirates asks if he is the whale from the previous day and then tells him to go find his pod. As the whale keeps singing, all the pirates are in awe of the mammal's cuteness.
At some point after that, the crew continued to sail as the sun was setting. One of the pirates asks the whale how long he is going to follow the crew and suggests that the whale's mother is worried about him. Another pirate gives Laboon some food, while another asks when did he name the whale.
Later, the Rumbar Pirates confront another group of pirates with a panda head Jolly Roger and a ship with a panda head figurehead. Yorki's crew shoots cannons at the enemy ship and then prepare to fight them in combat. Some of the Rumbar Pirates fall overboard and ask for help. Some other members report that there are injured men overboard. Yorki commands Brook to throw lifesavers and decided to save them later as they don't have enough men at the moment. Brook comments that he can't do anything since he can not swim. Laboon saved the overboard men, and Brook is happy about the whale's help.
Later, after the fight ended, the crew decided to sing "that song". Later, it's snowing and one of the pirates comments that it is cold. Later, while the pirates are on an island, they found treasure and they celebrate it with Laboon. They decide to have a feast. Later, a giant bull Sea King appeared attacking the whale. The pirates shouted to protect Laboon. They shot their cannon at the monster defeating it. Later, Yorki comments that Laboon is the most attached to Brook. The Afro Pirate, lowered with a platform to the sea level near Laboon, comments that the reason for this is that Laboon loves music. Another pirate says that the reason for Laboon's attachment is that he and Brook have similar shaped heads. Another pirate and Brook laugh.
The chapter moves back to the present, having Brook still singing the piano and crying. The story then moves back into the flashback.
Brook asks Yorki if there is anything they can do, but the captain answers that he won't listen to anything they said. He comments that they no longer have the power to protect him. He continues by saying that they can't bring that kid to the Grand Line. Brook is again lowered to sea level to talk with the whale. The pirate tells him that they need to talk, but Laboon keeps singing. Brook tells him to stop for a bit, and he tells him that they are his crew mates, but he is a whale. The whale sings even louder despite Brook's attempts to talk with him. The pirate continues by telling Laboon that the Grand Line is a dangerous ocean and that the whale is not an adult yet and there are brutal creatures there, much stronger than the ones in West Blue. Laboon dives into the water while still singing, even though Brook tries to tell him to listen. Brook is lifted back and he reports to Yorki that Laboon does not listen to him. The captain suggests to sing "that song" first, but Brook comments that this strategy would only backfire.
Later, Laboon is back near the ship and he is singing, while being ignored. Yorki comments that it is painful, but he orders his crew not to make eye contact with the whale. He also prohibits music or singing until Laboon separates from the ship. Laboon almost cries because he is ignored.
Later, one of the pirates mentions that the storm is so big that they almost fall off from the ship. Another pirate notices the lighthouse that marks the entrance to the Grand Line and alerts his crew. Yorki asks if Laboon is still nearby. A pirate answers that he hasn't seen the whale for a week. The captain mentions that what they did was sad, but it was for Laboon's sake, and if he is lucky, he can return to his pod. Yorki shouts asking the crew if they are ready to enter the greatest ocean in the world, to which the crew affirms.
Later, the crew has entered the Grand Line and has reached the Twin Capes. The lighthouse keeper Crocus introduces himself, congratulates the crew for crossing the Reverse Mountain and welcomes them to the pirate graveyard. One of the pirates got mad at Crocus' attitude. Yorki introduces himself as "Calico Yorki", as he is known in the West Blue. He apologizes because their ship is damaged, so Crocus tells them that they can stay however long they want, but they must take care of the light house keeper's food and drinks. Yorki accepts the offer. One of the pirates tells Crocus to celebrate with them at the feast they are planning to have. The Lighthouse keeper asks the crew if the whale they brought is their pet, and the entire crew is surprised by this. They notice Laboon sitting in the water.
Later, the crew sings and some of the pirates even dive to play with the whale. Yorki asks Brook to sing "that song", and the Afro Pirate answers that the captain really likes that song, to which Yorki answers that that is the song of pirates. As Laboon is singing, Yorki mentions that Laboon likes that song too. Brook asks Crocus if he has a request, but he answers that he can play anything, and Brook says that being pirate means singing.
The story shifts three months later, the crew still at the Twin Capes with the ship repaired. Crocus is sad that the pirates are leaving, but Yorki says that they have prolonged their stay too much. Brook is talking with Laboon, and he is telling the whale that he is glad that he finally understands. Brook explains that it only be two-three years, and that they will go straight through the ocean and arrive at the other side of the Red Line and then they will cross the wall again and be back. As the entire crew is on the ship, Brook finishes his speech by saying that they hope that Laboon will wait for them, saying that the whale will have grown much larger by then. Yorki then completes that at that time they will be able to go anywhere together. Mizuta Madaisuki tells Laboon to adventure together, since they are crew mates. As the whale is singing, the pirates are leaving and they are shouting, declaring that they will travel the world and return.
The scene changes to three years later in the Florian Triangle. The ship is very damaged and abandoned, only the skeleton body of Brook remaining, walking around. He finds Mizuta Mawaritosuki's skeleton with a sword in his skull and Brook remembers his deceased friend praising him for his quick kills, asking the Afro Pirate to teach him his skills. Brook collects his skull and puts it into a coffin full of other skulls of his former crew member. Brook looks into the distance and remembers a moment when the crew encountered a whirlwind while traveling. The skeleton remembers commenting that it was hot and sunny very recently, and another pirate answered that they should retreat because common sense doesn't apply in this ocean. As Brook walks through the dining hall, he remembers a day in which everyone was partying. One of the pirates mentioned that the Grand Line is annoying, because it is impossible to predict and the body can not keep up. Another pirate said that at the end of the day, the sake is delicious. Yorki asked Brook to play "that song", and Brook answers that he expected this. As Brook continues to walk on the ship, he walks past a mirror and when he sees himself, he gets scared and falls to the ground. He realizes that he became a skeleton. Brook then remembers another time when Yorki hanged two of his subordinates upside down, saying they have fought over something stupid. One of the pirates answered that the other almost killed him with a cannon in battle, but the captain answered that he is alive and that the other apologized already. He then told him to not hold a grudge over something that is done with. Yorki then hit him in the head, telling him that the pain is proof that he is still alive and the pirate affirms. Brook then remembers another time when he saw a clean sky during the night, and he wondered if Laboon was also looking at the same sky. Yorki then called everyone, telling them that Brook is getting sentimental. Later, they encountered a Marine battleship. One of the pirates wondered what to do, but Yorki answered to attack. Later, the crew sees a wanted poster for the captain and mentioned that his bounty went up again. The captain happily decides to have a feast. The crew sung Yorki's name, and then the captain asked the afro pirate to sing "that song".
As Brook is trying to steer the ship, he remembers another time when one of the pirates came to announce that the captain was sick. After the ship doctor inspected him, he declared that his room is off limits and that there are about ten other people infected. The doctor suspected that the captain got the disease from the jungle they landed at earlier. He continued saying that it is an unknown disease that he can't treat. He then followed up, mentioning that if the disease is treated wrong, it could wipe out everyone on the ship.
Later, the ship landed at an island. The entire crew went to visit their captain. As they were shouting for him, Yorki told them not to let out such pained voices, saying that the crew that makes crying children smile can not cry themselves. Since the current ship is damaged, the captain ordered the crew to continue on a new ship, saying that he will leave the grand line. He declares that they will escape from the Calm Belt. As the entire crew is crying, Yorki told them to give his regards to Laboon, and told them not to make such sad faces.
Later, when the captain was alone with Brook, he declared that the situation is the worst. The Afro Pirate hold his captain's hand in his own and declared that he will never forget his words, since they are carved into his heart. Brook then says that life is precious and asks that both of them survive and meet again later. As his last order, Yorki tells Brook to send him off with his favorite song.
Back to skeleton Brook, he steers the ship as he sings Binks' Sake.

In a flashback, it has been ten years since leaving Laboon at the Twin Capes, and Brook drifts aimlessly through the Florian Triangle all alone aboard his ship. Brook dances, sings, and makes jokes to keep himself occupied, but ultimately remembers that he has no audience for his antics. He eventually lays down, drifting into a deep sleep.
In a dream sequence, Brook is awakened in his human body by his crew frantically trampling over the deck of the ship. They have spotted a summer island off in the distance, and prepare to sing the "landfall" song. His crewmates are puzzled by his delayed reaction, reminding him that they can't start the song without him. Brook is overjoyed to see the crew, but questions the fact that they are all alive. Confused by his questioning, Yorki asks Brook if he is still dreaming. Brook slams his face into the deck, assured that this is all real since he could feel the pain. He is now sure that the traumatic events of the past few years was instead the dream, but quickly comes to his senses when he lifts his head to see himself all alone once again.
Brook has a flashback to the events proceeding his former Captain Yorki's departure into the Calm Belt. A few of Brook's crewmates ask him to play the piano as part of a quintet, as the crew resolves to follow Yorki's wish to circle the globe and return to Laboon. While playing the piano in the present, Brook has more memories of his time as acting Captain of the Rumbar Pirates: he recalls waking them up in the morning with his violin, sailing through a treacherous storm as they sang together, earning his first bounty, going to battle on a particular island, and visiting other islands as he played music with his crew.
Presently on Thriller Bark, Brook stops playing the piano, much to the disappointment of Franky and Chopper. To Luffy, Sanji, and Usopp's amazement, Brook opens the top part of his skull, and removes a tone dial. Brook explains the origins of it and how it works, but Luffy informs him that they have experienced this type of dial in Skypiea. Brook explains that he's kept it with him all this time, and that there's a song on it that he wants Laboon to hear. The dial holds the last song of the Rumbar Pirates together, as they wanted Laboon to know that they lived joyously until the end. He asks Luffy if he can play the song now, which the latter happily accepts. As the dial plays, Lola recognizes the song and encourages the Rolling Pirates to join her in singing it.
Brook has another flashback, recalling the final moments of his crew after they had suffered a devastating enemy attack. His crew informs him that no one can be saved - as the doctor has been killed, and the enemy poisoned their weapons. They are resolved to accept their fate as pirates, but note that they have one lingering regret - they never made it back to Laboon. One of his crewmates reminds Brook that he ate the Yomi Yomi no Mi, but Brook is still unsure of the process since he has never died before. Nevertheless, Brook proposes that if they are going to die anyway, then they might as well spend their final moments having fun. He convinces the crew to sing one final song (theirs, Yorki's, and Laboon's favorite) as he pulls out the tone dial, assuring them that if he does come back, he will take the song to Laboon without fail. The crew happily agrees, and state that no one can die until they finish the song. The Rumbar Pirates all join together in happily playing their instruments, while in the present, Brook briefly thinks back to being on the ship alone.
In the present, the Rolling Pirates and Straw Hats all sing and dance together as the song is revealed to be Bink's Sake. At the same time, Brook also recalls his crew singing the song together in their final moments, and his memories on the ship alone after their death. He recalls how much Laboon loved the song as well, while the pirates continue to sing with each other in the past and present. In the past however, Rumbar Pirates begin to succumb to the poison one after another, until it is down to just a quartet of them playing the song. Another crewmate falls, reducing them to a trio. Yet another crewmate dies to the poison, with Brook tearfully remarking that they are down to a duet. When the last Rumbar Pirate dies, Brook sobs as he notes that he is now a solo act. He has a couple of final memories as he finishes the song - joining the crew under Yorki's love for music, and leaving Laboon in the Twin Capes as the crew sailed off into the Grand Line.
As Brook finishes the song in the present as well, he asks Laboon that if he's truly been waiting for 50 years, if he wouldn't mind waiting just a few more. He feels renewed in his convictions, having his pride as a pirate, and his promise that he intends to keep to his nakama.

Brook stopped playing the piano, revealing the historical reason for the Sound Dial. He states that it was the Rumbar Pirates final song and that he heard it so many times during the 50 years he was alone. He looks into the Sound Dial and has a flashback to one of the Rumbar parties. Brook goes on to say that the song made him feel alive and seals away into his head by lifting the top part of his cranium, shocking Sanji and Usopp while amazing Luffy.
Brook states that he is overjoyed that Laboon was still alive, saying that now he had a goal in life, to deliver the Sound Dial to the whale. He shouted that he was glad to be alive. He then asks Luffy the question: if it was alright if he could join the Straw Hat Pirates. Luffy simply replies with a "sure". This shocks Usopp, Sanji, Franky and Chopper, horrifies Nami, makes Robin laugh and there is no response from Zoro as he is unconscious. Nevertheless, the men from the crew welcomed their new musician, saying that he was interesting. While Robin seems to enjoy the loudness, Nami comments that the Straw Hats have gathered weird crewmembers. Brook leans up against a wall at a 45 degree angle, calling it his "45 degrees", creating laughter.
Brook has a flashback to Laboon, silently talking to Laboon, that he would return and deliver the Tone Dial to Laboon.
At the Reverse Mountains, Laboon suddenly cries out in joy, making Crocus happy as Laboon was in such good spirits.
Back to Thriller Bark, Brook kneels down and shows everyone a bounty poster for Dead Bones Brook, himself. He reveals that he has a 33,000,000 bounty and that he once was a leader of a battle convoy in an unknown kingdom and later became captain of the Rumbar Pirates. Brook then kneels in front of Luffy, pledging his allegiance.
Two days later, Brook is in awe of the workmanship of Franky and Usopp as they had made a grave for the Rumbar Pirates. Franky states the Rumbar Pirate corpses could not be taken aboard the Thousand Sunny, so they constructed the grave. Brook also reveals that Thriller Bark came from the Rumbar Pirates' home seas, and with that, maybe the fallen pirates could be at peace easier. As Brook plays some music in front of the grave, Zoro sits down next to him, plunging his sword, Yubashiri, into the ground, stating that he was holding a small funeral for a dead katana. Brook tells Zoro that he has joined the crew. Zoro comments that Brook had bad luck and that the crew was varied. Brook simply laughs and says that he would devote everything.
The Straw Hat Pirates begin to leave and say their goodbyes. Franky tells Lola that he had fixed Brook's ship, so they could use that to sail. Lola asks Franky to marry her, but Franky says that he is too super and it would not be a good match. Luffy gets excited at the prospect of going to Fish-Man Island while Brook and Sanji have their own perverted views. A person reveals that mermaids did not wear panties but their beauty was even greater than a pirate empress named Hancock. Usopp asks how they knew so much and it is discovered that Lola's pirates had passed through Fish-Man Island as they had originated from the New World. Lola says that her mother was a pirate. Remembering something, Lola rips apart a piece of paper and hands one half to Nami, saying that it was a Vivre Card and she gave it to Nami as they were like sisters. Apparently, Lola's mother is a famous pirate in the New World and Nami is advised to look after the Vivre Card.
Nami asks what a Vivre Card is. Lola tells her that they only worked in the New World and that it would never burn or get wet.. Lola states that if you took a fingernail to a certain shop, they would create a special paper. She goes on and says that you tear the paper up and give it to a special person. Lola places the Vivre Card on a desk and it jumps. She reveals the main point of a Vivre Card, saying that it would allow you to meet with the special person. Lola says that if they ever had a problem, they could go to her mother for help.
Luffy, in deep thought, states that he had a similar sort of paper and Nami agrees. In a flashback, Ace is seen saying that the paper would let them meet again. Luffy retrieves the card from his hat and notices it burning and getting smaller. Lola then says that the paper was a representation of the person's life. Luffy tells her that it came from Ace and she states that his life was vanishing by the minute.

As the Straw Hat Pirates leave Thriller Bark, they are waved off by the Thriller Bark residents, who thank them for all that they have done. As the Straw Hats leave, Lola appears to see something in the mist, but her companions say that it does not matter anymore. They then start to tell the story of the Straw Hats as three large figures loom ominously in the mist behind Thriller Bark.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats, free of the Florian Triangle, continue on towards Fish-Man Island, said to be the "paradise on the ocean floor." On the Thousand Sunny, Nami questions Luffy's decision to leave Ace alone despite his Vivre Card burning, but Luffy states that it is fine. Brook chimes in, stating he does not mind taking an alternate route, but Luffy, stating that Ace hates to be looked down upon, chooses to keep going on their current route. Sanji states that the Vivre Card will repair once Ace heals, and gives the crew drinks to celebrate the arrival of their new crew member, Brook.
At Mary Geoise, Sengoku scolds Bartholomew Kuma for allowing the Straw Hats to escape. Garp laughs at his grandson's actions, but Sengoku tells him off and continues by telling Kuma he should have at least retrieved Luffy's head. Garp states that Luffy is not the kind of man to boast of Moria's defeat by Luffy's hand, but Sengoku, still angry, tells Kuma that because of his failure, the Straw Hats are nearing Marineford. Garp interrupts by offering tea and cookies to Sengoku, who yells at him again.
On the Thousand Sunny, the crew passes a number of strange phenomena, including a rain of candy, a round rainbow, a sea raccoon, and spiral currents. Some days later, the crew arrives at the Red Line, and they discuss the monumental achievement this is. The crew states that they must be careful at the World Government's doorstep, but soon Chopper and Usopp are swimming in a pool protruding from the Soldier Dock System, and Zoro is lifting weights. On the deck, Nami and Franky are talking to Luffy, Brook, and Robin, who are below the surface in the Shark Submarine. Once they reach a depth of 5000 meters (the limit of the sub), they encounter a sea rabbit, and are forced to escape to the surface. As the crew contemplates their predicament of reaching Fish-Man Island, the submarine surfaces, followed by the Sea Rabbit. With the surface advantage, Luffy quickly dispatches the beast with a Gomu Gomu no Rifle, causing it to spit up two creatures onto the Thousand Sunny. When they land, they are revealed to be a starfish named Pappag and a mermaid who states that she has been swallowed by sea monsters twenty times already. Camie, the mermaid, offers them some takoyaki, but suddenly realizes that since she is not in a store, she cannot sell it to them.

Sanji is overcome with joy at meeting his "first" mermaid, though Usopp is quick to remind him of Kokoro. Sanji's enthusiasm is immediately deflated, as he admits that even the horrors they experienced on Thriller Bark did not put as much fear in his heart. While Nami reminds them of how rude they're being, Luffy is surprised to learn that she was a mermaid considering she could walk on land. Luffy expresses disgust at the thought, earning him a punch from Nami. Brook reveals that this is his first time seeing a mermaid as well, and proceeds to ask Camie for money. The question infuriates Sanji to the point he kicks Brook, as Camie is aghast that a skeleton is talking to her. She is quickly amused by Brook being able to open to his skull however, confusing him briefly. Luffy follows this up by asking her if she poops, though Sanji immediately cuts her off when she begins to answer. Amidst the antics, a talking starfish reminds Camie that she forgot something. Camie introduces the starfish as Pappag, though she strangely refers to him as both her pet and her master. Pappag breaks into a song, which ends with him advertising Camie's t-shirt as a popular one of his own design. Luffy interrupts to ask Pappag why he can talk, who explains that he's always thought that he was human. Apparently by the time he realized he was a starfish, he had already become fluent in human language. Luffy questions if it really works that way, and the starfish quickly redirects the subject to thanking the Straw Hats for their help. This reminds Nami that the crew could actually use their help as well, but Luffy is more interested in takoyaki. Camie happily obliges to giving them some, though notes that this requires they meet up with Hatchan. She reaches out to him via Den Den Mushi, though she is answered by Macro of the Macro Pirates. She questions how this could be, to which he boasts that they defeated him. When Camie calls his bluff, Macro admits that they couldn't defeat Hatchan under normal circumstances - however this time they got the help of the Flying Fish Riders. Hatchan manages to get a hold of the Den Den Mushi somehow, and implores Camie not to come looking for him. Macro dares her to, after claiming that they are going to sell Hatchan for quite the price.  He reveals that they are at the Saboady Archipelago, at the Flying Fish Riders base in the waters 5 kilometers east of Grove 44. Hatchan again warms Camie not to come, before being forcefully hushed by the Macro Pirates.
Luffy cheerfully asks about the takoyaki again, getting him hit by Franky for his horrible timing. Nami muses to herself that Hatchan's voice sounded familiar, but ultimately dismisses her thoughts. She instead proposes to Camie that they can help her find her friend, in exchange for being shown how to get to Fish-Man Island. Luffy agrees to help Hatchan out, but wonders just who he is. When Camie explains that they make the best takoyaki in the world at their shop, Luffy adamantly riles up the crew for the rescue mission. Nami asks Camie and Pappag for directions, who reveal that they should reach Grove 44 as long as they continue due west. Camie reveals an ability to summon a large quantity of fish to the Thousand Sunny, and to also communicate with them, as she asks for directions to the Flying Fish Riders hideout. The fish reveal that they know their location and can lead them, but won't get too close to the gang due to their own fears. Nami is highly fascinated by this ability, though is curious how the fish are able to hear her while underwater. Before Camie can respond, Luffy notes that they could eat a lot of fish when she's around - which causes Sanji to pull on his face for not minding the audience of his comment. The fish form an arrow pointing in the right direction in the sea, much to the astonishment of the crew. Usopp takes to the helm of the ship, following Robin's guidance to turn the ship around to the 4 o'clock direction. Zoro emerges on the deck, wondering if the crew has found the way to Fish-Man Island. Luffy diverts his attention to the mermaid aboard their ship. Zoro notes that there is a first time for everything, much to Chopper's befuddlement that the memory of Kokoro disappeared right in front of him. As Camie becomes worried about what may be happening to Hatchan, Pappag assures her that he will persevere. He more notably asks the Straw Hats if they are confident in their abilities, as the area is home to quite a few gangs. Trading people is a big business around the area, and mermaids in particular are worth quite a bit on the market - which is why the Macro Pirates have had their eyes on Camie for quite some time. Knowing this, he ventures to guess that Hatchan most likely got captured seeking them out after he and Camie did not return for a while. Zoro recalls them mentioning that he is an octopus and is called "Hachi", wondering if this might the same person they dealt with in Arlong Park. Sanji is doubtful,  but Pappag nonetheless mentions that the involvement of the Flying Fish Riders complicates things. Franky inquires who they are, and Pappag reveals that they are a notorious kidnapping gang that recently made a name for itself. They are led by a man named Duval who wears an iron mask, so no one has seen his face. Duval is currently said to be looking for someone specific. Luffy attempts to give Camie some assurance, and asks Brook to play a song to lighten the mood.
Camie is soon informed however of an approaching threat from the fish. The Flying Fish Riders fly by the Sunny, shooting it in the process. They circle back around the ship as they fly away, with two of them noting to each other that they have discovered the Straw Hat Pirates, which Duval will love. At the Flying Fish Riders base, Duval notes to the Macro Pirates that the pirate ship Camie is aboard is the specific one that he has been searching for. Duval vows to kill the man that has ruined his life.

The chapter begins with the Straw Hats discussing battle strategies to bring down the Flying Fish Riders. Usopp suggests using cannons to shoot them down, while Camie and Pappag are worrying about Hatchan.
The scene shifts to the Flying Fish Riders' base where the riders are wondering why they were called back. Duval says that this was because he wants the pirates alive. Duval then rants about why he hates a certain man with all of his subordinates agreeing. He then calls for the Macro Pirates and they are introduced. Macro, a gulper eel fish-man, Tansui, an arowana fish-man, and Gyaro a demekin goldfish fish-man. Duval thanks them for capturing Hatchan because now the Straw Hat Pirates are coming. Duval is very pleased because the man he wants to kill is on that ship. When Hatchan, who is in a cage, hears this, he fears the worst, due to his unfortunate past with them. He is concerned as to whether they have captured Camie or not. Hatchan is afraid that the Straw Hats will cause trouble for him. Finally the Straw Hats arrive to the Flying Fish Riders' base. Duval is even more pleased when his subordinates report the siting of the man he is looking for.
At the Thousand Sunny, Camie sees Hatchan and begins screaming his name. The Straw Hats note that the base is very ominous and silent. Hatchan covers himself with ink when he sees Camie and the Straw Hats, the Straw Hats recognize his voice, but not his appearance, which leads Sanji to ask him how Arlong has been, which Hatchan reveals Arlong and the rest of his crew were captured by the Marines, and that he managed to break out, and achieved his dream of starting his own Takoyaki stand. The Straw Hats conclude that the enemy is all around them, beginning to aim. Luffy and Hatchan begin to calmly have a talk when Luffy suddenly realizes who he is. Luffy remarks "I knew it was you!" much to the surprise of Hatchan. Usopp then begins to explain to the other crewmates about Nami's past and how the Arlong Pirates occupied her hometown. Zoro and Nami begin to realize that this was Camie's friend and many of them have regrets about promising to save him. Suddenly Camie jumps off the ship exclaiming that she will save Hatchan. The Macro Pirates who were underwater come up and capture Camie. It is also revealed that all of the Flying Fish Riders are underwater as well. Sanji is determined to at least save Camie when Nami says the Hatchan is innocent and that they should save him as well, because they did promise to save him while Sanji comments that he adore her forgiving self. Meanwhile Luffy's eyes have turned into octopus fritters at the thought of Hatchan's octopus fritters. Luffy then swings into action, revealing his Devil Fruit powers when he jumps out of the boat and stretches his arms to save Camie and Pappag. Luffy orders Zoro to cut the bars on Hatchan's cage. Immediately afterwards the Flying Fish Riders exclaim that this was a trap and the Straw Hats are completely surrounded. Duval orders an attack and the Straw Hats get ready for battle.

Hatchan warns Camie and Pappag to get back, and Luffy eagerly anticipates the Macro Pirates' impending attack. The Flying Fish Riders emerge from the sea, but Luffy manages to grab onto one of them. Another rider drops bombs on the Thousand Sunny, but Sanji redirects all of them with a whirlwind kick. As Luffy successfully hijacks one of the flying fish, a rider orders everyone to dive, causing Luffy to be taken underwater. Chopper and Brook jump in to save him, causing Nami and Franky to have to rescue the three Devil Fruit users, whom they proceed to berate for their stupidity.
With Camie and Pappag left alone, the Macro Pirates attempt to kidnap them again, but Zoro then cuts Hatchan out of his cage. The Macro Pirates prepare to attack Hatchan, but he sends them flying with a single three-armed punch. Camie and Pappag embrace and thank Hatchan, and a Flying Fish Rider attempts to attack them, but is cut down by Zoro. Zoro tells Hatchan's group to leave this to the Straw Hats, and Hatchan apologizes for his actions against the swordsman in Arlong Park.
Usopp fires a cannon at the Flying Fish Riders, and Duval asks his men if any of them wants to take part in the "Zero Fight", promising them reimbursement for medical costs. One rider accepts, and rides his fish towards the Sunny, spinning around a massive club for a kamikaze attack. The Straw Hats note that such an attack will demolish the Sunny, and Sanji tells Luffy to take out the fish. Luffy stops the flying fish with Gomu Gomu no Fusen while Sanji kicks the rider in the face, and Luffy slams the unconscious fish onto the Sunny's deck to cook for dinner later. However, there are still many Flying Fish Riders attacking in the sky, and Brook gets up after recovering from his sea dive, intent on proving his worth to the crew. He jumps very high into the air and swings his sword across his violin, creating music that puts the riders to sleep. Brook then runs across the water and cuts down the riders as they fall down. Luffy pulls himself onto a flying fish again, only to find out that both the fish and rider are asleep. The fish then crashes through the roof of Duval's room, and Luffy sees Duval's face. Duval notices that Luffy has seen him, and notes that Luffy likely knows who he is as he puts his mask on and confronts the pirate.

Luffy's pain and fatigue that Zoro absorbed in Thriller Bark starts taking a toll on his body as he faces discomfort and pain. Brook, lively as always continues his attack on the Flying Fish Riders and joins up with Zoro, a bit tired. Brook notices Zoro in pain but Zoro tells him not to worry about it.
Hachi advises Zoro to keep his guard up as he defends them from an enemy attack, Hachi is then distracted by the compliments of Camie and Pappag. Zoro and Brook protect Hachi from an enemy attack repaying the favor. Meanwhile the Flying Fish Riders attack the crewmates on the Thousand Sunny. Nami, Robin, Chopper and Franky defeat their attackers easily.
Luffy appears running from poisoned harpoons and shouts to everyone at the dock to run as a guy in a mask and a "cow" was chasing him. Out of the rubble just created appears the leader of the Flying Fish Rider's, Duval and his bison Motobaro. He is disgusted at the performance of his group, he then announces that the day he has been waiting for a long time has finally come, the day he can take revenge on a certain man that is responsible for sending him to hell, the man whom he wants to kill turns out to be Sanji.
Duval is so angry that he starts speaking in a different "accent", Sanji is confused and tries to figure out who can hold a grudge against him, as there are many people he has angered in his past. Duval attacks Sanji with harpoons which were coated with scorpion poisons, Nami and the rest of the crew on the ship also get in the way of this attack angering Sanji. Meanwhile Luffy talks to Zoro saying that he saw the face under the mask, Zoro is curious and Luffy says that he'll show the face hidden below the mask soon and that it's a face that Zoro knows too.
Luffy kicks off the mask from Duval's face, shocking everyone and angering Sanji. The face hidden below the mask was that of the poorly drawn face in Sanji's wanted poster. Duval continues to speak and demands his life back, Sanji not caring about Duval's feelings kicks him right in the face.

Sanji and Duval argue about why Sanji's wanted poster has the same hairstyle and face like Duval's. The Straw Hat Pirates except Sanji comments about the coincidence of Duval's hairstyle and Sanji's bounty poster. Sanji tells Duval to change his hairstyle, beard or something else. Duval proceeds to tell Sanji about his history and how he had to escape from the marines. Sanji then asks Duval why he attacked Nami and the others. Duval replies that the crew and ship is the reason Sanji had become a famous pirate, and he wants to get revenge.
Duval proceeds to attack Sanji by using his harpoon gun. Luckily, Sanji quickly finds out that the weapons are poisonous and manages to dodge them. Unfortunately, two other members of the Rosy Life Riders trap Sanji using a steel net, and drags him into the sea. The Straw Hats try to warn Sanji to get off the net but to no avail. Luffy tries to save him, but is stopped by Zoro. Hatchan tells them that he will go and save Sanji.
Duval informs the other Straw Hats that the two riders have air canisters, so they can stay in the water as long as they can, and Sanji, without having any air canisters, will drown and by the time the Straw Hats see Sanji again, they would just see a drowned body.
Sanji's attempt to escape remains futile. Just as one of the riders tells Sanji to feel the wrath of Duval, Camie jumps into the water, attempting to save Sanji. Pappag compares the speed of fish-men to the Flying Fish, saying the Flying Fish are ranked as one of the fastest creatures in the sea, outranking even the fish-men. However, the creatures that are ranked as the world's fastest creatures in the sea are the Merfolk.
In the sea, Camie tells Sanji not to worry and that she is going to save him. Meanwhile, Luffy asks Pappag if Camie is really that incredible, and Pappag replies that as long as the merfolk keep their guard, they are incredibly hard to catch in the sea. After that, something emerges from the sea.
Luffy thinks that Camie had successfully rescued Sanji, however, after a while, he and his crew are shocked to see an anchor floating in the sky. A rider, who was the one who got the anchor, tells the other riders to head for the Thousand Sunny dead-on and sink it. They mention that some of them are Devil Fruit users, and they will drown if landed into the water. The Straw Hats are shocked at this and has to plan something.
Just as the anchor is about to drop, Franky uses the ship's secret weapon, the Chicken Voyage just in time to escape the anchor. The riders are shocked that a ship could go in reverse. Franky retaliates by using the Gaon Cannon and blasting away as many riders as possible. However, he too destroys some of the infrastructure in the surroundings and took out almost all of the riders. Some of the Straw Hats commended the Sunny for its ability. Franky explains to them that the Gaon Cannon uses a full three barrels to prevent the ship itself from being blown away, and at the same time releases two barrels worth of Coup De Burst from the cannon, so it uses up to a ton of cola and tells them not to overuse it.
In the sea, Camie ties the two riders who attempted to drown Sanji with the net and prepares to rescue Sanji of the water. After a while, she emerges with Sanji. Nami and Chopper asks if Sanji is okay, but Camie replies saying that Sanji is having a nosebleed.
Duval is shocked about the riders' defeats, and Sanji is still alive after all, and then attempts to attack Luffy and his crew with Motobaro, his pet bison. He mentions that countless fools had fallen victim to it, tore holes in village dams, even when caged it will just break straight back out. Men have also called it the heart-smashing horn.
Luffy says he will stop it, and Chopper warns Luffy to be careful. He is worried that the horns will attack Luffy, but Luffy just stops it with an unknown power. The bison gets scared and then runs away. After that, it passes out.
Duval finally attacks on his own, and Sanji says he wants to finish him off. However, Duval rebuts that he is not going to die as long as Sanji is alive. Duval attacks Sanji with his harpoon gun again, and Sanji dodges it. Sanji attacks Duval while calling him the bad stuff. He finally uses Parage Shot to conduct a massive beauty operation on Duval.

The Straw Hats enjoy a free meal from Hatchan, Camie, and Pappag as a thanks for saving their lives. Hatchan asks Nami what she thinks of the food, which creates an air of tension. Nami establishes that she does not forgive Hatchan for their past, but nevertheless assures him that she likes the food - much to the crew's joy. The Takoyaki 8 proprietors encourage the Straw Hats to eat their fill, to which they happily oblige. Sanji is denied the opportunity to learn more about the takoyaki sauce, as the group is soon approached by the Rosy Life Riders. Luffy doesn't recognize Duval - to which Sanji confirms that he altered the bone structure of his face. Duval is extremely grateful to Sanji to the point he now calls him "Young Master", as he believes his newly acquired looks will mean a life of peace. As a way of returning the favor Duval offers the crew assistance on their travels, knowing that the Straw Hats are new to the area. Sanji states that Duval having no hard feelings is enough for him, however the latter is revealed to be fawning over himself in the mirror rather than listening. After mistakenly believing that Sanji had called him "handsome", he makes eye contact with Nami as she wipes her mouth, thinking that she is blowing him a kiss. After more antics with the Straw Hats over his looks, Duval offers the crew his Den Den Mushi and implores them to call should they ever need help. With a final apology for the trouble they have caused, Duval and the Rosy Life Riders go on their way, much to the crew's relief. Brook notes that this was his first time having takoyaki, and couldn't be more pleased. He passes gas with no regard to his surroundings, and Nami berates him for his lack of manners. As the Takoyaki 8  crew finally is able to rest, Sanji invites them aboard the Thousand Sunny for tea.
The group discusses their potential routes to Fish-Man Island, with Hatchan clarifying that only fish-men and merfolk are able to survive the pressure of such deep water. Pappag elects to enlighten them on their 2 options; however only one of them is feasible for the crew due to them being pirates. One way would involve climbing the Red Line and going through the Holy Land of Mary Geoise, seeking the permission of the World Government. This would not be possible due to the crew's reputation, but more importantly, it would require leaving the Thousand Sunny behind in order to cross the Red Line. The notion makes Franky incredibly upset, to which Pappag notes that this is unequivocally the safer option of the two. The alternative involves traveling through the ocean floor, which often leads to ships being attacked by Sea Kings. While Chopper and Usopp reconsider if they actually want to go to Fish-Man Island in light of this, Nami and Robin wonder just how a ship can travel through the depths of the ocean. Camie and Hatchan explain that there is a small hole in the Red Line about ten thousand meters underwater, and this is where Fish-Man Island is located. In fact, it is essentially directly beneath Mary Geoise. While Zoro notes that the Sky Islands were also about ten thousand meters in the opposite direction, Camie and Hatchan further explain that the ship needs to be "coated"  at the island they are headed to in order to dive to such depths. As they speak on this, the crew marvels at their new location, having arrived at the Sabaody Archipelago.
Usopp immediately calls out the large bubbles that constantly appear and float upwards, wondering if they come from the island itself. Camie confirms they do, however Robin interrupts the explanation to ask about the status of their log pose. Nami shares her concern, wondering if it will change course now that they've stopped at an island. Hatchan assuages their concern, noting that the Sabaody Archipelago is just a huge growth of trees and thus doesn't have magnetic pull. Hatchan further explains mangrove trees, noting that the ones of Sabaody are a special case since the water never rises above their roots. The Sabaody Archipelago is a forest of the world's biggest mangrove trees, which are known as the Yarukiman Mangrove. Each tree constitutes its own "island", of which there are 79 in total. The 79 islands together form the archipelago, and it is here that people venture to when they wish to cross over into the New World. The crew arrives to Sabaody at the "civilian" entrance Grove 44, though Hatchan has them sail further in and drop anchor at Grove 41. Pappag informs them the islands are all connected by bridges, so as long as they remember their grove number, they won't get lost. Usopp and Chopper muse over the potential of someone still getting lost, much to Zoro's annoyance.
With the crew finally stepping ashore, the bubbles immediately pique Luffy's interest; as he demonstrates that he can stand on them. Pappag explains that the Yarukiman Mangrove tree roots secrete a special kind of resin, and when the roots "breathe out" they push this resin into bubbles that float off into the sky. Luffy climbs several bubbles high into the air, and tells his crew he can see an amusement park. Camie notes that this is Sabaody Park, and she's always dreamed of riding the Ferris Wheel. Chopper questions this, and Pappag admonishes her for having a such a thought, slightly puzzling the reindeer. Nami questions just why they are here in the first place, and Hatchan reminds them that they need to have their ship coated in resin by a mechanic. They could all be killed by the pressure of the ocean if the job is not done properly, so Hatchan assures them he can take them to a mechanic that he'd trust with his life. In exchange for this however, Hatchan has the crew promise him that they won't get involved in the affairs of the World Nobles at any cost.

While most of the Straw Hat Pirates have left to explore the wonders of Sabaody Archipelago, Franky and Usopp have stayed behind to repair the ship and Sanji has stayed to protect the ship on Nami's request. Zoro then leaves to explore by himself, but Usopp and Sanji object to it, saying that he will get lost due to his poor sense of direction. Zoro states that since all the trees are numbered, he will just have to remember the grove number and ask for directions to get back. Sanji and Usopp agree to his logic but as Zoro leaves the ship he misreads the grove number as Grove 1 instead of Grove 41 due to a passing bubble.
Elsewhere on the archipelago, Hatchan, accompanied by Camie and Pappag, explains to the rest of the Straw Hats what he knows about the Celestial Dragons. He states that they wear masks to avoid breathing the same air as "common folk", that they are incredibly proud, that one should never defy them and makes Luffy promise him to not go up against them. He also warns Luffy that since there are many pirates aiming for the New World as well as bounty hunters and kidnappers, they should not do anything that attracts attention. Luffy asks Hatchan where he received the wound on his head but Hatchan tells him to ignore it and further warns him that due to their close proximity to Marine Headquarters, the Marines and bounty hunters are all very strong. He continues by saying that he and Camie should not be regarded as mermaids or fish-men and Robin backs him up. Luffy then sticks his head through a bubble and manages to pull the rest of his body in. A vendor then offers Luffy a device that allows him to drive the bubble around and explains that that it will cost 500 to rent and 10,000 to buy.
Luffy wants to buy it, but Hatchan talks him out of it, stating that he will explain later. As the Straw Hats drive around on their new toys, Hatchan tells Luffy that the bubbles will pop outside of Sabaody Archipelago, so it is useless to buy one of the devices. Luffy is disappointed, but Camie tells him that they can also use these devices on Fish-Man Island, as they have similar bubbles.
While Luffy and Chopper find some food to eat, Pappag tells Brook that the person to see in the island is the Mermaid Princess and promises to hook them up as he is her best friend. Robin notices that there are a lot of hotels in Grove 35 and Hatchan explains that those are there for sailors awaiting approval to pass over the Red Line from Mary Geoise. Meanwhile, Nami spots a shopping mall, as Brook, Chopper and Luffy pick up some souvenirs. As Nami and Robin depart to go shopping, Nami says that Camie has become more reserved since they arrived and Robin states that she may have a bad history associated with the island.
Luffy and Hatchan race across the archipelago, but as they near Grove 31, Luffy spots something odd. A pirate is standing in the middle of the road asking for an axe or a saw to get his neck-ring off, stating that he will not hurt anyone and that he has a baby son waiting for him at home. Hatchan observes that the man is most likely a slave that ran away from his masters but states that it is useless to do so. As the man tries to get his neck ring off, it explodes, which Hatchan says is the same for all slaves; if they try to escape, the ring explodes, likely killing them. The Straw Hats look on in horror, unable to do anything as Hatchan instructs Luffy to get out of his bon chari. On top of a building, a shadowed figure with a broadaxe states that the man is Devil Dias, a 60,000,000 bounty pirate whom he thinks would have never made it in the New World.
A small dog walks up to the collapsed man and urinates on his body and Hatchan tells Luffy to get down on his knees because the Celestial Dragons are right behind their pet dog. Two Celestial Dragons appear, one with a gigantic man chained behind him and the other stating that she will simply have to buy another slave. The woman states that she is disgusted by the "useless" man and shoots him. Luffy is outraged to see her treat him like dirt, especially when he can't even move, and tries to stop them, but Hatchan grabs him before can do anything. As she walks off, she states that she would like a giant as a slave but her father tells her that she should have a young child to hone her disciplinary skills. As the Straw Hats leave, they discuss over the cruelty of those two Celestial Dragons, and wonder why Devil Dias couldn't stand up to them, especially when he seemed more powerful than them. Pappag states that if someone defies a Celestial Dragon, that person will be the target of a Marine admiral. Chopper asks Pappag about what makes them so special. Pappag explains that the Celestial Dragons are descendants of the twenty kings who founded the World Government eight hundred years ago. Over the years, they grossly abused their power and influence because of their lineage.

Luffy pummels through his third bounty-hunter at Sabaody Archipelago to the applause of Hatchan, Camie and Pappag as Chopper and Brook continue the journey with them. When someone asks why there are suddenly so many bounty hunters, Hatchan explains that they are currently at the "Lawless Zone" of the archipelago, a collection of twenty nine mangroves that pirates and bounty hunters usually occupy instead of the usual tourists. Chopper remarks that Sanji or Zoro could have come with them, but the fish-man octopus assures them that they are nearing Grove 13, where his bubble coating friend awaits. The two bounty hunters left, remark that Luffy's 300,000,000 bounty is impressive but there are "other pickings" on the island they could choose from instead.
At Grove 13, the group arrives at what appears to be a rip-off bar run by Hatchan's friends, whom Camie trusts despite not having been there before. Upon arriving at the bar, they see the bar owner, Shakuyaku, an attractive looking woman with a cigarette in her mouth and a bloody customer, who tried to not pay his bill, in her grip. Shakky recognizes the Fish-Man and happily greets Hatchan when she sees him, claiming it to have been a long time. After expressing her delight after learning about Hatchan ending his days of piracy (believing that his health comes first), she offers food and drinks to the Straw Hats, only to find Luffy and Brook already raiding the fridge, despite Chopper's warnings of her possibly being a rip-off, but she assures them all that since they're friends of Hatchan, they can do as the like and even gives Chopper some cotton candy. Luffy suspects she knows something about them which Shakky admits so, claiming to be a well-informed person, before questioning him about the Enies Lobby incident and his relation to his grandfather Monkey D. Garp. Shakky then reveals that she is a former pirate, which is why she knows Garp, who used to chase her forty years ago (surprising Luffy at that part, leaving him to wonder how old she really is).
Hatchan soon asks about the location of their friend "Rayleigh the Bubble Coater" to get the Thousand Sunny coated, but she claims that he has been gone for half a year and as a former pirate, he could look after himself.  She gives them various hints regarding Rayleigh's whereabouts including the "Lawless Zone" and Sabaody Park, but tells everyone to be careful while searching for him due to the presence of other powerful pirates. In particular, she notes that at this point, there are eleven pirates (including Luffy and Zoro) on Sabaody Archipelago who had taken different routes to pass through the Grand Line and became known as Supernovas due to having bounties worth over 100,000,000, with one of those pirates' bounty being even greater than that of Luffy's.
At this moment, the story cuts away from the Straw Hats to introduce those nine other pirates and crews within Sabaody Archipelago:
Back at Shakky's bar, the owner notes that while many other crews have set out to sea, only the strongest such as the Straw Hat Pirates and these other rookies have made it this far. She believes that they will all make their mark and that others such as the Kid Pirates, infamous for injuring civilians (which is the main reason why his bounty is higher than Luffy's), are more violent than Luffy's crew, thus making her root for the Straw Hats to succeed. Luffy, Brook and Chopper worry about Rayleigh's fate outside but she claims that he will be fine as he is a hundred times stronger than any of the rookies.

The chapter opens with Shakuyaku saying goodbye to the Straw Hats, who are off to find a coating mechanic. The scene shifts to bounty hunters, Minoruba and Kairiken, who are discussing about the mermaid who was seen with Luffy. The head of the kidnapping team, Peterman, promises ten percent of the money they would get for Camie to the bounty hunters who brought him that information. Meanwhile, Luffy and the others arrive at Sabaody Park and start to enjoy the amusements there.
The scene shifts to Groove 24 with the arrival of a Celestial Dragon, namely Saint Charlos. He kills a badly injured human being and decides to make an engaged nurse (Marie) his sixth wife by shooting her fiancee. Zoro, wondering whether he is lost and not knowing about the situation, walks towards the Celestial Dragon, upsetting him. The Noble tries to shoot Zoro who dodges it before the bullet can connect. Zoro tries attacking Charlos, but Jewelry Bonney tackles him away and fakes Zoro's death using her Devil Fruit powers and some tomato juice, knowing that attacking a World Noble would result in an Admiral having to come to the island. After being informed of the situation by Bonney, Zoro takes the injured man to a hospital, to the surprise of some of the other Supernovas who are nearby, with Scratchmen Apoo remarking that Zoro let off a very high killing intent just moments earlier.
At the Thousand Sunny, Sanji, Usopp and Franky receive a call on a Den Den Mushi telling them that Camie has been kidnapped. Sanji replies that he will inform the Flying Fish Riders.

The chapter opens with Duval greeting Sanji. He tells Duval about Camie being kidnapped and Duval agrees to help them. He gets on Motobaro, saying he has a few ideas as to who might have grabbed her. At Sabaody Park, Chopper worries about the Camie getting kidnapped. Meanwhile, Brook acts so calm that Chopper is by shocked by his demeanor. The Rosy Life Riders find the Straw Hats around the archipelago and pick up them. They find Chopper and Brook, who were relaxing themselves. They split up to find information about the various kidnapping groups and find the rest of the group. Sanji is annoyed that Motobaro will not go any faster.
The scene shifts to Grove 22 in a human shop, where Luffy asks the shopkeeper about mermaids being bought and sold. The guy tries to sell Luffy a fake mermaid, but he isn't fooled and refuses. Luffy, Hatchan, and Pappag go outside and start calling Camie's name out. All the yelling makes other pirates notice and recognize Luffy. Pappag regrets going to the park and taking Camie. He then adds that everyone on the island have it out for Camie and Hatchan.
The scene changes to Robin and Nami riding on a bon-chari with several shopping bags. Robin is explaining to Nami about how two hundred years ago the World Government made a treaty with Fish-Man Island, ending the enslavement of fish-men and merfolk, who up until then were only considered another type of fish. The slave trade is a remnant of the way things were before the treaty and even though it has been supposedly abolished, it still exists on the archipelago. Robin is about to explain more, when they are interrupted by Franky. He tells them to get on the flying fish, as Camie has been kidnapped.
Luffy is consoling Hatchan and Pappag, seeing Rosy Life Riders and decide to go with them.
The scene changes to Grove 1, the site of a human auction house. Elegantly dressed nobles are entering the building. In the building's back entrance, Peterman is leaving, telling the attendant to be sure they get a good price. The attendant thanks him and tells Peterman to come back later for his share of the selling price. Two World Nobles appear. A man greets them at the door and asks them if they would be alright being on equal standings with commoners. Rosward says he does not care since he is not going to bid. Shalria remarks that her brother, Charlos, is late as they enter the building. Rosward replies that it is because he is riding on a human, and should get a fish-man.
Inside the auction house, Eustass Kid is talking about the World Nobles and slavery, saying that it makes the rest of the world seem humane by comparison. He adds that it is because of them that the world is in such turmoil, saying that pirates at least have a nice side to them, asking Killer if he agrees. One of the pirates points someone out to Kid, and Kid recognizes the person as Trafalgar Law, adding that he has heard unpleasant rumors about him, to which Law gives his middle finger at Kid.
Backstage, a guard asks the auctioneer, Disco, if he heard about what they were given today. Disco says that the special feature today is a giant. The guard tells him about Camie. Disco then goes to the holding area, where two guards are manhandling Camie. Disco inspects Camie and says that Peterman has outdone himself. Camie sticks her tongue out at him and Disco slaps her. He is about to kick her when the guards tell him not to, as she will not sell as high if she is injured, saying he should hit her where her clothes will hide it. Camie tearfully tells them that Hatchan will show up and make them regret their actions. Disco then suddenly passes out. While the workers are rushing to find a doctor, two slaves watch from their holding cell. The giant tells the other to stop messing around, asking if he was responsible for the burst of "spirit". The man laughs and tells the giant he is simply an old man in the coating business, who cannot ignore a pretty girl. The chapter ends with the old man being introduced as the First Mate of the Roger Pirates, Silvers Rayleigh.

At the Marine Headquarters, Garp receives news that the "Dark King", Silvers Rayleigh, is being sold at the auction at the Sabaody Archipelago. Garp decides to do nothing: if the marines go, they will have to face two legends.
Meanwhile, down at the auction house, the monthly auction commences. Camie is seen sitting on a bench handcuffed and neckcuffed. The first slave is put up for auction. Eustass Kid and Trafalgar Law both along with their crews are seen sitting in the auction.
At the same time, Duval is transporting Sanji to the house. Sanji looks down at the list of prices for the classes of slaves and their prices. Camie, who is a mermaid, costs around 70,000,000. After Usopp interrogates another kidnapping team, the news is relayed to the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates. The Hound Pets' headquarters is located at Grove 1.
Approaching the house, Sanji panics because half an hour has passed since the auction started. Luckily, Duval mentions that Camie would be a spotlight "item" and would not be put up for sale until the very end. When they arrive at the house, Franky, Nami, Chopper, Hatchan, and Pappag are there, trying to convince the guards to give Camie back. They refuse, of course, stating that the Straw Hats' actions are obstructing their business. No matter what they try to do, they decide that they will have to win Camie by winning her legally, by purchasing her back.
As they enter the house, Eustass sees them. He is disappointed that Luffy is not there as he wants to see how "big" of an idiot he is. A dancing girl named Pascia is put up. Sanji asks if they can bid on her too only to be kicked by Chopper and elbowed by Nami.
Meanwhile Luffy, Zoro, Robin, Brook, and Usopp are heading towards the house.
At Grove 24, the daily newspaper comes out and all of the pirates are shocked by the news that has just been announced. X Drake mentions that the marines are so short on hand, despite for the fact that their headquarters are so close to the archipelago, and that now he knows why; Portgas D. Ace has been sentenced to a public execution. Drake mentions that Whitebeard will retaliate for sure and that the Marines are asking for a war with the Whitebeard Pirates.

From the outside, the auction is going on for a dancing girl named Pascia who is sold for 7,200,000. Meanwhile, a very frustrated Saint Charlos kicks his slave for being so slow, causing him to miss "half of the fun". He decides to sell his slave because he is "useless". He reveals that he would like to have a mermaid, despite for the fact that they are extremely difficult to catch. As he enters, the next slave is up for auction.
An ex-pirate named Lacuba, who was feared as a devious tactician. Suddenly, his mouth fills with blood and the crowd screams. The curtain is lowered and he is dragged backstage. Nami is confused about what had just transpired. Sanji explains that he bit his tongue to kill himself instead of living the life of a Celestial Dragon slave.
The Straw Hats wait patiently for Camie, who will be on auction soon. Disco comes out and announces that Camie will be up next for sale. The Straw Hates are confident that they will win with 200,000,000. Seeing them, Camie begins to relax, confident that she will be saved by them. Unfortunately, Charlos is very excited to see a mermaid and immediately bids 500,000,000 on Camie, much to the Straw Hats' disbelief. The entire auction house is stunned into silence since no one could match that price. Saint Rosward ask his son why he needs one when he has a tank full of piranhas. Charlos says that he simply wants her to race his piranhas. Camie tries to scream out to Hatchan, but her cries fall of deaf ears because her tank is soundproof. Hatchan gets angry and says that if they cannot win with money, then he will get Camie by force. Pappag warns him that she has an exploding collar and requires the keys for them, if they are to save her. After Disco regains his composure, he announces that Saint Charlos wins Camie.
Eustass Kid decides to leave, mentioning the "screwed-up" world that he lives in. Suddenly, Luffy makes a dramatic entrance into the auction house with Zoro by crashing into the wall on a flying fish. Luffy immediately sees Camie and runs to her tank. Hatchan intervenes and grabs Luffy. Unfortunately, to restrain Luffy, Hatchan uses all six of his arms. This alarms the people, once they realize that he is a fish-man. They begin to spew about how "disgusting" and "creepy" he is. Telling him to get away and naming him a sea monster. Realizing the truth, the Straw Hats witness the discrimination of merfolk first-hand.
As Luffy runs down the aisle, the guards attempt to restrain him. Suddenly, two gunshots go off. As he turns around, Charlos can be seen holding a gun while Hatchan is lying on the ground bleeding. Celebrating his "extermination" he begins to gloat his successful fish-man capture for free. The other auctioneers begin to give off a sigh of relief because now they will not get any "diseases" from him. Luffy, in his fury, walks toward the saint. Hatchan tries to stop Luffy and blames himself for what had happened. He mentions to Luffy the promise they made, to not attack the Celestial Dragons even if a person is shot in front of them. He curses his fate and regrets not being able to repay Nami for what he did back in Cocoyasi Village.
Charlos fires off another shot to silence Hatchan. As Luffy approaches Charlos, all of the people in the auction watches him thinking he is crazy to stand up to a Celestial Dragon. Charlos tries to shoot Luffy but he misses which Luffy punches him hard in the face, leaving a fist imprint on his face.

The Auction House is in shock by the punch, Luffy has knocked out a Celestial Dragon, Saint Charlos and smashes him against several empty benches. Everyone, including Camie, Pappag and Hatchan become shocked while Luffy act it like it was nothing, with only Kid and Law smiling from his outrageous actions. Luffy immediately apologizes, knowing that an admiral from the Marines would come due to his attack on the World Nobles, but Zoro admits that he was going to attack the World Noble too while the rest of the crew has moved on to freeing Camie from her bowl prison.
Unfortunately, the remaining Celestial Dragons, Saint Rosward and Saint Shalria are horrified by Luffy's action. Rosward draws a gun but Sanji kicks it out of his hand before taking out a guard nearing him. More guards appear for their protection of the mermaid, but Zoro and Franky easily take care of them. Luffy continues his defiance of the World Nobles, and Rosward is threatening that he will send for an admiral. The remainder of the auction house soon clears out as Zoro slices opens Camie's bowl, grateful for the rescue.
In amidst the growing chaos, the Rosy Life Riders arrive with more crew members while Disco attempts to protect the slave he intends to sell. Rosward continues to threaten action against the pirates until Usopp accidentally lands on his head, knocking him down. Robin and Brook assist in fighting the guards. Luffy comments that the Marines are "coming", but Law corrects him by saying they are "already here" surrounding the auction house though Luffy is more interested now in the bear in his crew.
Angry with the way things were going, Shalria seizes Camie from Disco, threatening to kill her. But before anyone can do anything to stop her, she suddenly passes out as Silvers Rayleigh finally emerges with his giant prison mate, speaking of the money he stole back that he previously lost gambling. Everyone stares at his appearance, but Hatchan immediately identifies him as his friend and the coating engineer. Realizing who is on the octopus man's side with the trouble caused, he emits a mysterious energy that makes nearly everyone in the building faint, with the exception of the Heart Pirates, Kid Pirates, and Straw Hat Pirates and their allies. Rayleigh identifies Luffy by his straw hat immediately after his action, stating he had been wanting to meet him.

Word quickly spreads across the Archipelago about the assault of the Celestial Dragon at the Human Auctioning House. The other six Super Rookies immediately make plans to escape the island before the expected admiral arrives.
Meanwhile up in Mary Geoise, news of the Celestial Dragon incident arrives. Kizaru assures the others that he will personally take care of them.
At the same time, Disco is calling Donquixote Doflamingo to help out since the Human Auctioning House is owned by him. Doflamingo tells Disco that slavery is old news and to never call him again. Disco desperately tries to convince Doflamingo to help, but he refuses. He mentions that all of the Seven Warlords of the Sea are assembling at Mary Geoise to set up the battle to come against the Whitebeard Pirates.
Back at the Human Auctioning House, the Marines have prepared mortars to bring the pirates out. Inside, Silvers Rayleigh is attempting to take off Camie's explosive collar. It begins to beep and it looks like it is going to explode. Luckily, at the last second, he successfully detaches the collar, seconds before it detonates. Franky comes out frustrated with the keys. He tosses the keys to the slaves in the jail cell, telling them to leave before the nobles come back. The Straw Hat Pirates wonder what Rayleigh did that caused the guards to faint. Hatchan says that he believes it is Haki. Kid and Law are shocked to see the "Dark King" here but Rayleigh states that he is merely an old coating engineer. He then thanks the Straw Hat Pirates for saving Hatchan.
Back outside, the Marines are threatening to use force to get the World Nobles back. They also mention that an admiral is on his way. Kid tells Luffy and Law that he will go out and take care of the Marines by himself, at which Law and Luffy get upset. Outside, Luffy, Law, and Kid confront the Marines. The Marines fire off their mortars, which are countered by Luffy, Kidd, and Law with their powers, Gomu Gomu no Fusen, Repel, and "Room" and "Shambles" respectively. The Marines then realize the cannons are useless since the pirate captains are all Devil Fruit users.

After taking out most of the Marines outside the Human Auctioning House, Luffy says that Kid and Law have the weirdest abilities there, to which Kid retaliates, saying that Luffy is just as weird as them. The Marines become worried, one saying that they have to hold out until Kizaru arrives. Law replies with that the three captains cannot wait that long and throws the severed head, which is still alive. The Marine's head warns his fellow soldiers about Law's Room technique, although it is already too late, with a Room already there, with about a dozen Marines in there.
Law uses Shambles on the Marines, and their body parts are switched around. Meanwhile, Luffy goes into Gear 3 mode, and uses his giant arm to knock out Marines. As the Marines prepare to fire upon Luffy, their weapons are lifted into the air by Kid, who has created a monstrous arm out of all the guns and metallic items nearby. The three captains being to wreak havoc with their Devil Fruit powers.
The rest of the crews appear, all giving little comments, as well as Rayleigh. As the crews start to escape, the Marines surround the building.
Kid tells Luffy it was a pleasure to meet him, but says that he will not be so merciful next time. Then, to the surprise of both Law and Kid, Luffy says that he will find One Piece. At the moment, Killer stops a Marine from killing Kid. Killer shouts at Kid for not paying attention but Kid ignore it. Kid says to Luffy that he slaughtered anyone who laughed at his dream of finding One Piece. He states that anyone who does not have that dream in the New World is as good as dead. Kid tells Law and Luffy to meet him in the New World.
The crews prepare to leave. Kid walks, while Killer and Heat clears a path for him. An enraged Marine tries to kill Law, but Bepo comes in and defeats the Marine, along with some others. Sanji clears a path for Luffy, while the Rosy Life Riders prepare to take the Straw Hat Pirates away. The Straw Hat Pirates start fighting the Marines, and soon escape.
Law releases the slave, previously a pirate captain, Jean Bart, and asks him to join the Heart Pirates, which Bart does, willingly. Law states that half of Bart's thanks should go to Luffy, as he was the one who caused the incident.
As the Kid Pirates head towards their ship, a beam goes through Kid, and what looks like Bartholomew Kuma is standing on a hill. Kid asks in shock why there would be a Warlord on this island, ending the chapter.

Outside the Human Auction House, the Heart Pirates begin to escape with Bepo beating Marines easily, with agility. Jean Bart destroys the bridge behind them, and as he and Bepo run, Bepo makes sure that Bart knows that since he is new, he is at a lower rank than Bepo.
Soon afterwards, Law spots Kid and his crew fighting what appears to be Bartholomew Kuma. Kuma speaks Law's name and fires a laser beam at Law. Jean Bart states that it is not surprising that a Warlord of the Sea is at the Saboady Archipelago due to its proximity to Marine Headquarters and Mary Geoise. Law, Kid, and their crews prepare to fight as Kuma pulls off a glove.
At Grove 8, Duval has beaten up the leader of the Hound Pets, Peterman, and drops off the Straw Hat Pirates, Hatchan, Camie and Rayleigh at Shakky's Rip-off Bar.
Much to the entire Straw Hat Pirates' surprise, Rayleigh tells them that he was the vice-captain and first mate of the Roger Pirates, under Gol D. Roger. He then tells the pirates the story of the Roger Pirates, and reveals that they were never caught by the Marines, as many people thought, but that Roger gave himself up to the Marines. Rayleigh also reveals that four years prior to Roger's death, Roger discovered that he had a terrible illness that could not be cured. Rayleigh states that Crocus sailed with them, as a doctor, keeping an eye on Roger's health. Crocus is a name the Straw Hat Pirates are familiar with as he is the person at the Twin Capes at the start of the Grand Line. Brook is most familiar with Crocus, as he entrusted his pet whale, Laboon, with Crocus. Rayleigh says that Crocus only joined the Roger Pirates as he was looking for another pirate crew, the Rumbar Pirates, Brook's crew. Even though Crocus only stayed on with the Roger Pirates for three years, he still was considered a crewmate by Rayleigh.
Rayleigh starts to talk about Roger, how he was always happy and like flashy things like parties or battles. But then, Roger ordered that the Roger Pirates was to be disbanded, which they did. After one year of disbanding, Roger turned himself in, was taken to his hometown, Loguetown in the East Blue, where he was executed. Rayleigh says that the last words spoken to him by Roger himself was "I will not die, partner." Then Rayleigh says that his execution was supposed to be a warning to other pirates in the world; however, his death began the Great Pirate Age. Rayleigh says that the only people that can form the Pirate Age is actually the people living in it. He also states that Shanks and Buggy were in the plaza. It turns out that Shanks had spoken to Rayleigh about Luffy, and that Shanks and Buggy were once apprentices of the Roger Pirates.
At the Grove 27's harbor, a pirate says that a Marine battleship has arrived, possibly with an admiral on board. Everyone starts to run as the Marine battleship begins to fire on the island, and Kizaru rides in on one of the cannonballs. As it explodes, Kizaru lands and makes a call over a Den Den Mushi.

Rayleigh is congratulating Luffy and his crew on making it this far and saying that Shanks is probably waiting for him in the New World. Rayleigh begins to think about coating Luffy's ship, when Robin asks a question about the Will of D..
Robin explains that she found a note in the Poneglyph of Shandora, saying "I have come here and will lead this passage to the farthest ends of the world", signed by Gol D. Roger. She then asks if Rayleigh knows what happened in the Void Century, which Rayleigh simply answers yes. Rayleigh reveals he knows everything about the Void Century, as to what happened, but he tells Robin not to be so hasty and take it one step at a time. He is reluctant to tell Robin about what the Roger Pirates learned of the Void Century, but is willing to tell Robin if she wishes so. However, Robin says no, and that she will continue on her journey with the Straw Hat Pirates and learn the truth by herself.
Rayleigh then says that it was a shame that Ohara was wiped out and says that while Roger had 'the power to hear all things', the pirates could not match the intelligence of the likes of Clover. Suddenly, Usopp asks if the One Piece treasure really is on the final island, Laugh Tale but before Rayleigh can even answer, an aggravated Luffy interrupts him, saying that they will not ask him anything to do with One Piece, as everybody set out to the Grand Line to search for it. He says that if Usopp asks any more questions, Luffy states that he will quit being a pirate, saying that he will not go on a boring adventure.
Rayleigh soon asks if Luffy could handle it, the New World, where there are bound to be opponents of great power to which Luffy replies with him being the future Pirate King. Shakky states that she is becoming a big fan of Luffy. As Rayleigh begins to set out to coat the Thousand Sunny, Zoro suggests that they split up because of the danger of an Admiral on the island. Rayleigh hands them each a Vivre Card, saying that he is also a wanted man so he would take the ship somewhere private. He says that it will take three days to coat it. Grateful for the vivre cards, the Straw Hat Pirates begin to split up. As they leave, Franky says that he has great respect for one like Rayleigh or the Roger Pirates as they all sailed upon the Oro Jackson.
As Kizaru arrives, pirates start to run away, except for one, who says that if he takes out Kizaru, his name would be world-famous in less than one night. As this pirate shoots, the bullet goes straight through Kizaru's head but he is fine, implying that he has some sort of Logia ability. Kizaru soon asks the pirate if he has seen Sentomaru but the pirate screams and runs away. Kizaru, says it was just a question, lifts his leg as if he is about to kick and in the distance, buildings begin to explode.
Scratchmen Apoo is in awe of Kizaru's strength, but his men try to convince Apoo to leave. He states that before running away, one has to make an opponent angry. In another location, Marines shout that they need reinforcements as one reports that all of the Marines had either turned to children or elderly people, which is Jewelry Bonney's work. Somewhere else on the island, Marines also surround Capone Bege, but Bege says that military might will not defeat him as his military might is stronger. As Basil Hawkins faces Kizaru, he also prepares to fight Kizaru, saying that he will not die today. Meanwhile, the Straw Hats are walking while a figure stops them. Luffy then asks who is the one stopping them.

Inside Capone Bege, soldiers are rushing around, preparing cannons and equipment for battle. Drawbridges are lowered for cavalry, and gunports are opened for cannons. Cannons fire at the Marines surrounding Bege, who are surprised at seeing people inside Bege's body. As the tiny cannonballs pass a certain limit out of Bege's body, they expand to normal size and hit the Marines. Cavalry then begin to pour out of Bege's stomach, who states that his military power is greater than the Marines'.
Meanwhile, at Grove 27, everyone is scattering around, stating that both an Admiral and a Warlord of the Sea have arrived on the island. At Grove 24, Urouge has encountered a Pacifista, and states that he is not going to be so lucky considering that he is so close to the Marine Headquarters. Meanwhile, Basil Hawkins is being encouraged by his crew members to escape from Admiral Kizaru, who is standing right in front of the Supernova. However, Hawkins merely ignores the Admiral and the warnings as he continues his fortune-telling. Kizaru asks Hawkins if he has seen a man named Sentomaru, but Hawkins states that he knows no such person and suggests asking another person. Kizaru states that he is bored, and when he gets bored, he cannot just leave a bounty like Hawkins' lying around. Kizaru then asks him if he has ever been kicked at the speed of light. Hawkins is suddenly kicked into a building by the admiral, and at the same time, a pirate at Grove 27 collapses without reason. Meanwhile, Kizaru fires a laser into the same building, creating a massive explosion, while Scratchmen Apoo watches in amazement.
Again, at the harbor, another man collapses from an unknown injury, and Hawkins walks out of the building's wreckage unharmed much to Kizaru's apparent surprise. Hawkins states that facing an Admiral with just ten "bodies" is unwise, as two straw voodoo dolls appear out of his body and fall to the ground. Urouge then appears flying down the street and comments on the strength of the Pacifista. When he notices Kizaru close by, Urouge states how unfortunate he is, as he is trapped by a Warlord and an Admiral. Hawkins tells Urouge that he does not see death on the latter, and Urouge states that he is grateful for it, even if it is a joke. X Drake then appears and hits the Pacifista with a four-headed axe, damaging it, and Kizaru refers to Drake as a former rear admiral. Drake states that he never intended to run into Kizaru, but at that time, Urouge activates his ability and grows in size to match the Pacifista. Apoo notices how interesting the situation has gotten, while his crew members tell him to run.
Meanwhile, at Grove 12, the Straw Hat Pirates have encountered another Pacifista. Sanji warns Luffy of a shockwave attack, but the Pacifista shoots a laser at Luffy instead, much to the crew's surprise. Luffy dodges, but he and Chopper are fascinated by the beam. Luffy realizes that this was the enemy who attacked his crew on Thriller Bark, and Franky fires a Coup de Vent at the Pacifista, sending it flying. Luffy then activates Gear 2, saying he will go all out from the start, and his crew mirrors him. Zoro notices that the atmosphere seems to be off, but is unable to identify the cause.
At Grove 36, a large figure with a battleaxe is sitting on top of a building. He states that Kizaru is late, and wonders why the admiral has not contacted him. He continues by saying that if they do not hurry, they will all be wiped out.

Franky, Usopp, and Brook evaded another blast from the man, all in awe of his attacks. They argued over the possibility of the weapon being a beam, when the man discovered them and fired. Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji all rushed forward to the man, using a trio-combination "Mouton Jet 36 Pound Cannon", sending him flying into a nearby building. Nami and Chopper stared in awe at their nakama's strength. However, Robin stated that since their opponent was a Warlord of the Sea, and he would not be as easy to eliminate. Zoro soon told Sanji and Luffy about his theory of Kuma being a fake and that if it was true, it would be a problem as there were more of Kuma that were as strong as the real person himself.
Urouge told Kuma that he was different from before and using his new muscly form, Urouge punched Kuma using "Inga Zarashi". Urouge continued to land hits on Kuma, finally hurling him into a wall. Hawkins pondered about Urouge's sudden change in strength when a beam of light pierced Urouge's skin, coming from the Kuma Pacifista. X Drake recognized the laser as Kizaru's own signature move. Kizaru stepped in and asked X Drake what it was like on the "other side" and invited him to try and fight. As X Drake prepared to battle the Pacifista, Kizaru told him not to forget that he was still present. Suddenly, X Drake's hands turned into claws and gripped the Pacifista's arm. Scratchmen Apoo got excited as he gets to see the "Ancient Zoan". A silhouetted figure of what appeared to be a dinosaur biting the Pacifista's head is seen, forcing him to bleed. The Pacifista reacted quickly, shooting a laser beam, going through the dinosaur's shoulder and into a building. X Drake transformed back into his human form, saying that it was interesting that the Pacifista had red blood. Urouge commented that he had just seen something odd, when Kizaru reminded him that he was present. Kizaru kicked Urouge at the speed of light, sending him through a number of buildings.
Hawkins walked up and slowly transformed into a type of scarecrow, calling it the "Devil-Conquering Phase". Kizaru called the Supernovas "monsters" as Hawkins in his new form tried to slash at Kizaru. The admiral disappeared, then reappeared in front of Hawkins, pointing two fingers into Hawkins' eyes. Kizaru then shot a beam of light through his fingers, blinding Hawkins. Kizaru stated that since that attack did not go through Hawkins, he was probably a Paramecia. Kizaru congratulated Hawkins for making to Sabaody and prepared to kick him, when he is interrupted by music. Apoo was seen using his chest and head as bongo drums, while using his teeth as a keyboard. Apoo then used his arm as a recorder and told everyone listening to stay tuned. The Pacifista and the other Supernova all recognized the Roar of the Sea, Scratchmen Apoo. Kizaru's arm then got chopped off, possibly due to the soundwaves, surprising Kizaru. Apoo then beat his chest again for a final time and Kizaru then exploded in flames.

Apoo joins the battle and manages to knock Kizaru down. Apoo uses this chance to make a quick escape, but Kizaru quickly gets up and easily knocks out Apoo, Drake and Hawkins. Kizaru is then seen talking to Sentomaru on a Baby Den Den Mushi who is telling Kizaru to quickly capture Luffy, Law and Kid.
Back at Grove 12, where the Straw Hats are fighting the copy of Kuma, Zoro gets knocked out by Kuma since his wounds from his previous battle with Kuma have not yet healed. Chopper successfully manages to land a "Roseo Metel" attack on Kuma. Kuma quickly recovers and just as Kuma is about to attack Chopper, Franky attacks with "Strong Hammer" and "Franky Boxing". Kuma quickly retaliates and punches Franky but Robin saves Franky just before he hits the ground with "Spider Net". Brook then attempts a "Swallow Bond En Avant" from the air but Kuma's tough skin prevents any damage. Usopp barely manages to save Brook with "Atlas Suisei" just as Kuma is about to fire a beam at him. Kuma then targets Nami with one of his beams but Robin closes his mouth with "Ochenta Fleur: Cuatro Mano Shock" causing Kuma to fire the blast in his own mouth giving Nami the chance to unleash a "Thunder Lance Tempo" on him. This does little however, except for making the copy mad. He then goes "berserk" and Zoro tells Sanji to send Kuma toward him. Sanji then attacks with "Diable Jambe, Flambage Shoot" kicking him to Zoro who unleashes "Asura, Makyusen". Luffy then activates Gear Third and uses "Gigant Rifle" with the chapter ending there.

The Straw Hats defeat the PX-4, but are exhausted. Usopp says that if it gets back up, they are finished, which prompts Chopper to comment that they should run while they still can. Franky is confused how the pacifista looks similar to Bartholomew Kuma. He concludes that it must have been a twin or a super look-alike. Sanji notes the PX-4 written on the pacifista's collar. Luffy pants and is surprised that his crew had to go all out already. Suddenly, Sentomaru and another pacifista appear before the Straw Hats. Sentomaru comments on the destroyed PX-4 and says that he does not know how he will tell Dr. Vegapunk about this. He says the cost of building one pacifista is the equivalent to that of a Marine battleship. The Straw Hats are all horrified by the sight of another pacifista. Sanji comments that they do not have the strength left to fight another one. Franky asks who they are, but Sentomaru replies that he will not tell the pirates anything about the likes of them. He follows this by saying that he has the tightest mouth in the world. Afterwards, he orders the PX-1 to fire. Sanji notices that the pacifista's beam is building up in its hand instead of its mouth. Zoro is frustrated that they are in no condition to fight and how they are driven into a corner without even confronting the Marine admiral yet. Luffy dodges the PX-1's attack and tells the crew to split up into three teams. One team consists of Nami, Sanji, and Franky. Another consists of Zoro, Usopp, and Brook and one final team consisting of Luffy, Robin, and Chopper. Luffy tells everyone to meet back at the Sunny in three days. Sentomaru tells the PX-1 to not let the Straw Hats leave Grove #12, but Usopp uses a super smoke star to get away. The PX-1 goes after Nami's group and destroys the bridge. Luffy notices that the PX-1 went after Nami's group and wonders if they are okay. Suddenly, Sentomaru appears and tells Luffy that he should be more worried about himself. Luffy tries to attack him with a Gomu Gomu no Gatling attack, but instead gets pushed back himself. Chopper is surprised by the attack. Sentomaru follows up with another attack, making Luffy crash into a wall. He tells Luffy that for the record he is not a Devil Fruit user. On the other side of the battle field, Luffy hears Usopp yelling for Zoro. Zoro is on the ground, gravely injured, with a mysterious figure standing in front of him. Usopp tells the man to get away. Brook comments that Zoro got hit by a beam of light. Sentomaru tells the man who turns out to be Kizaru that he is late. Robin recognizes the name, but in shock. Robin tells Usopp and Brook to look out because Kizaru is a Marine admiral. Kizaru tells Zoro that this is the end for him and taunts him for being taken out with one shot, a man with a bounty of 120 million belly. Franky sees Kizaru charging up his leg beam and says that if he gets hit at that range, then he will certainly die. Luffy is horrified and yells that Zoro is going to die. Brook and Usopp try to stop Kizaru, but all their attacks just go through him. Kizaru tells them that he ate a Logia-type Devil Fruit called the Pika Pika no Mi, and as a result, he became a lightman. Robin tries to save Zoro by pulling him out of harm's way with her Devil Fruit power. However, she does not get far as Kizaru steps on Zoro, thus making Robin unable to move him anymore. Just as Kizaru is about to deliver the finishing blow, his attack gets intercepted by a kick from Rayleigh. Kizaru causally comments on how the Dark King had finally decided to show himself. Rayleigh tells Kizaru to lay off the youngsters as their era is only just beginning.

Admiral Kizaru is surprised to learn that Rayleigh has been living out his days in the Sabaody Archipelago. Rayleigh jokingly replies that if the Marines would just tear up his wanted poster, then he could live out the rest of his retirement in peace. Kizaru tells him that his sins as a pirate will never disappear since Rayleigh was a member of the Roger Pirates. He also adds that the Marines would have to make special preparations if they were to capture him right now, so he tells him to stay out of the way as the Celestial Dragons would lose face with the Marines if they fail to capture the Straw Hat Pirates.
While Kizaru is busy with Rayleigh, Monkey D. Luffy orders Usopp and Brook to grab Roronoa Zoro and flee, and informs the rest of his crew that their main priority is to escape. Franky uses the last of his cola to perform a Coup de Vent on the Pacifista. The Straw Hats then make haste and Luffy thanks the old man for his help and the latter replies that he is praying for their safety.
Kizaru tries to use his light logia form to catch up with the Straw Hats, but Rayleigh does not allow him to do so as he stops him with his sword. Rayleigh comments that it has been a while since he had to use a sword as Kizaru forms his own sword out of light. The two of them clash with swords. Rayleigh manages to cut Kizaru and make him bleed from his cheek. Kizaru is troubled by the turn of events and Rayleigh replies that life always throws you curves.
Sentomaru, watching off in the distance, is surprised that someone was able to stop Kizaru. He notices Zoro being carried by Usopp's group and orders PX-1 to go after them. The PX-1 catches up to them and Brook stays behind and tries to stop it from catching the group. His efforts prove futile as he ends up receiving a direct hit from the pacifista's laser beam. Sanji then appears and attacks the PX-1 from behind. The PX-1 falls flat on its face, but rises back up again. Sanji comments that his leg is reaching the breaking point and can not perform any more attacks like that. Sentomaru goes after Luffy and quickly gains the upper hand on him. Chopper is surprised that Sentomaru is able to injure a rubber man like Luffy. The PX-1 defeats Sanji. Chopper turns into his Monster Point form in an attempt to save his friends, but he loses control. Robin is surprised to see Chopper in this form for the first time.
Back at Zoro's group, the real Bartholomew Kuma appears. Kuma is surprised to see that Zoro is still alive and asks him about where he would like to take a trip. Zoro is non-responsive. Kuma then makes Zoro disappear into thin air. Usopp cries out for his crew mate.

The Straw Hat Pirates wonder where Zoro disappeared to, after Kuma touched him with his paw. Chopper runs wild in Monster Point, trying to hurt Sentomaru. Rayleigh is still dueling Kizaru, while Nami reflects on Kuma's ability, which she had seen at Thriller Bark when he made Perona mysteriously vanish.
Luffy asks Sentomaru where Zoro could have gone, and Sentomaru says that anyone that gets touched by Kuma's paws would fly for three days and three nights and the destination would only be known by Kuma.
An outraged Sanji gets ready to battle Kuma, while PX-1 tries to attack Usopp from behind, using a beam attack. Kuma uses his Devil Fruit ability to send PX-1 away, enraging Sentomaru. Luffy then orders the crew to run away as far as possible. As Sanji, Usopp, and Brook try to escape, Kuma descends on them, prepared to attack. Brook sacrifices himself, making a bone joke as he disappears. Sanji is filled with despair as he begins to lose his crewmates. He tells Usopp to run and lands a kick on Kuma, only to be deflected into a pile of rubble. Usopp attempts to hold Kuma back, only to be sent away. An enraged Sanji runs at Kuma, who finally sends Sanji off as well.
A despaired Luffy looks on in shock. Rayleigh is still dueling Kizaru, holding off the Marine Admiral. Kuma then approaches Rayleigh and whispers something to him. When Kizaru asks what Kuma said to Rayleigh, Kuma simply replies with that he will not answer Kizaru's questions.
Luffy activates Gear 2 as Kuma teleports to where Franky and Nami are. Franky tries to attack Kuma with a "Strong Right", but it has no effect. An enraged Luffy tries a "Jet Pistol", only to be blocked by Kuma's paws. Kuma descends on Franky and sends him away using his Devil Fruit ability. Luffy slowly succumbs to defeat, as Nami is also sent away by Kuma.
With only Robin and a Monster Chopper left, Luffy desperately lunges at Kuma. However, Kuma simply teleports again, to Robin and Chopper. Luffy starts begging Kuma to stop sending his crewmates away but Kuma still sends Chopper away. Robin attempts to run; however, she also gets sent away by Kuma.
Luffy, filled with despair and rage, falls to the ground, angry and crying that he could not even save a single friend. Kuma simply responds by saying that he will not be seeing Luffy again and ultimately sends Luffy flying, resulting in the utter defeat of the Straw Hats.

On Sabaody Archipelago, Duval and his Rosy Life Riders guard the Thousand Sunny waiting for the coating mechanic in Grove 41. Back at the Human Auctioning House on Grove 1, Saint Shalria displays great anger over the pirates who hurt her father and brother and allowing the slaves to be freed as well as the incompetent Marines who were unable to stop them. In grove 13, at Shakky's Rip-off Bar, a worried Camie stresses over the safety of Luffy and the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates despite the reassurance of Pappag and Hatchan. Shakky then comments on how the age is beginning to move.
Meanwhile, Luffy is seen flying above the ocean cursing at Bartholomew Kuma and wondering where his entire crew disappeared to. He then shouts out the names of his friends, surprisingly in their order of recruitment starting with Zoro and ending with Brook. Frustrated, he realizes that if he falls into the ocean he will die. We see Luffy again sleeping with a snooze bubble coming from his nose. As he lands onto an island, a bear paw crater is formed around him, causing him to wake up in a jungle environment.
Dazed and confused a giant boar approaches him however Luffy does not realize its presence yet. Luffy then remembers the Vivre Card he received from Silvers Rayleigh, happily realizing that he will be able to join up with his friends if he uses it to go back to Rayleigh. Luffy begins to run in the direction that the Vivre Card was pointing with the giant boar chasing him in hopes of eating him. Due to Luffy's oblivious nature he does not realize the boar is chasing him nor does he see the wall blocking his path because he is too focused on saving his friends and a flashback of when Nami got teleported races through his mind. Luffy uses his Gear 3 arm to smash the obstacle out of his way and surprises the giant boar. Having used the last of his strength he becomes very hungry and falls over and then finally realizes the boar standing there. We see smoke rising from the tree tops as Luffy's belly has become large from eating the giant boar. He spots a laughing shroom and decides to eat it and then immediately  begins to howl with laughter. Inevitably he notices more shrooms and eats a lot of them with his mood changing after each one. Comically it shows the boar skeleton with "...." in its speech bubble even though it is dead.
Some time passes and we are introduced to 3 new characters, inhabitants of the island. As one of them calls for Marguerite, we see a mushroom covered Luffy lying unconscious on the ground. Luckily they noticed a half-eaten mushroom nearby and they conclude that the mushroom he ate caused this to happen and take immediate action to save Luffy's life. As the ladies remove the mushrooms one by one, they notice the stubs are still intact so they decide to burn them off. Waking up only to notice he was burning Luffy starts to jump and panics however he quickly falls unconscious again. They then take Luffy to be washed in the river. During the wash however, they notice one mushroom in between Luffy's legs was overlooked. Due to their naivete towards men as no men have been shown on the island yet they do not know that the mushroom they are pulling is actually his genitals. As a group begins gathering to watch they comment on how flat chested the "girl" was. An old lady introduced as Elder Nyon asks what the commotion is and realizes that the girl they think they are washing is actually a man. Everyone is shocked and an embarrassed and flustered Marguerite says that its her first time seeing a man. As the island goes into an uproar we learn that the island Luffy has landed on is called Amazon Lily a female-only tribe and that it is a place you should not set your foot on if you value your life!

The narrator explains that the name of this island country is Amazon Lily (it is the place Kuma sent Luffy to), with the entire population being women. It is a place where men are forbidden. The narrator further explains that when some venture out to sea to conceive offspring, they return to bear their children, but oddly enough, they are always born female. It is then revealed that in a large mountain with an arch-like monolith shaped like a heart, there is a large hole with a village inside. The narrator then says that the village and the country itself are built like a large fortress. The narrator reveals that all the work and all of the manual labor is done by the women, who are born as warriors and are strong and hearty, but also have an elegance and an air about them. A man driven to foolishness by greed has no place there. More than anything else, the women of this country are strong. In this country, strength is beauty. If a man ever approached this country, he would simply disappear.
Somewhere in the village, many of the women are gathering to see Luffy wake up (who is completely naked). As Luffy wakes up and stretches, the women are shocked and astonished by his physical appearance, as he doesn't have any breasts at all like them, has unkept hair, and considered him to be weak due to being so thin. They also comment on how he was eating while sleeping. Luffy, slightly drowsy after waking up, says that it's noisy, shocking the women even more after hearing him speak. He then wonders where he is and what he was doing, but then finally recounts what happened back in the Sabaody Archipelago and up until he ate the mushroom. Luffy scratches his head, but immediately realizes that it's gone, and wonders where it is. He realizes that Sweetpea has it, and uses his rubber powers to stretch to get it back. The women are, again, astonished by seeing Luffy's arm stretch, and one of them writes into a notebook concluding that all men are able to stretch their arms like Luffy. She then asks what the young pirate's name is, which he reveals to be Luffy.
Luffy looks down below to realize that he's naked, which the women point out how he's so slow. The girl with the notebook then writes again, concluding that men are dull and cover their heads before their whole bodies. A curious Marguerite tells Luffy that before he gets dressed, she asks what the bag between his legs is (referring to his scrotum and testicles). Luffy is perplexed by the women's naivete because they should know about this stuff, and he refers to them as "weird" and "his balls". Marguerite is confused and asks what he means by "balls". Luffy asks if it's obvious and claims that they're "balls made of gold" (he's using slang for testicles to point out their importance to him). The women actually believe that they are literally made of gold, and one says that they're gorgeous. Marguerite naively asks Luffy if he could take them out to show them, but Luffy, horrified and shocked at their idea, refuses for obvious reasons and asks if they're trying to kill him. Kikyo tries to finish Luffy off with some arrows, but he escapes by breaking through the ceiling of his prison. He avoids getting recaptured by the Kuja Tribe and he takes Marguerite with him so he can ask her some questions. The two of them escape into the jungle. Luffy gets his vivre card back from her and learns more about the island and how the empress is a renowned pirate. Meanwhile, Kikyo and the rest of the Kuja Tribe try to track Luffy down as fast as possible because the snake princess has returned.

Out in the Amazon Lily jungle, Luffy has his clothes altered by Marguerite, whom he thanks before running off to meet up with his crewmates. As he runs, he realizes he needs a boat to get back to the Sabaody Archipelago but is shocked to realize there are no boats on Amazon Lily, learning that the island is in the Calm Belt and is surrounded by Sea Kings. Only the Pirate Empress herself has a ship on the island. Marguerite explains that the reason why only the Pirate Empress can leave the island and Calm Belt safely is because her boat is pulled by two giant venomous sea snakes called Yuda, which even Sea Kings never dare attack, knowing how it will end for them. Luffy opts to a raft but is quickly forced to abandon the idea due to his inability to design a good one.
As he lies down and talks to Marguerite, the amazon lady quickly gets up and aims for his head with her arrow, intending to kill him but misses as he avoids her weapon. Several more arrows are aimed at Luffy, who recalls their intense strength despite appearing to be ordinary, something Marguerite notes to be natural when imbued with Haki. As more women arrive to attack Luffy, one of them notes that it is imperative that they eliminate him as Boa Hancock has returned.
Out on the seas, a Marine ship anchors in order to meet with an amazon ship, having been forbidden by the World Government treaties from getting too close. Having had to kill even a Sea King, Vice-Admiral Momonga asks to meet Boa Hancock, Pirate Empress of the Seven Warlords of the Sea. However, he is told by Hancock's pirate crew that she will not meet with him, forcing him to remind her that she agreed to attend an assembly of the Warlords regarding the execution of Portgas D. Ace, Second Division Commander of the Whitebeard Pirates. Upon hearing that her Warlord status will be revoked if she does not heed the call, Hancock appears in person, stating that she lied before but still does not want to lose her status, in addition to asking for all the cargo on the Marines' ship. Hearing this, the men on the ship try to hand over their possessions, before a furious Momonga stops them, telling Hancock that it is in a week and Whitebeard is sure to make a move in that time.
Told that the three Marine Admirals will be leading all the forces against Whitebeard, Hancock is asked once again to either answer the call or have her Warlord status revoked. Hancock reiterates that she does not want her status revoked but that she will not answer the call, instead suggesting that all the Marines be turned to stone. As the men recall fearful stories of the Kuja Pirates, Momonga berates her selfishness, but the amazons retort that no matter what Hancock does, she will be forgiven because she is beautiful. As everyone nearby fawns over her, Hancock aims a technique at the Marine ship, transforming everyone upon it into stone statues. Upon inspecting it, she notes Momonga to be the only survivor, having stabbed his hand in order to eliminate his other feelings. As the amazons return to their island, Momonga tells Hancock that he will wait for two days and if she does not return, the treaty will be voided, but Hancock shows no concern over this.

As Hancock's ship returns to Amazon Lily, the gates are opened and the pirate empress is welcomed back. The loot obtained is inventoried and sorted while Ran hands a newspaper to Elder Nyon upon her request. In the palace, Hancock views a clay sculpture of herself and breaks it, considering it ugly. Calling over Enishida, Hancock asks where the guards went, to which she explains that a dangerous "monkey" was spotted and they went to eliminate it. As Hancock gets ready to relax, Elder Nyon appears before her.
Knowing that the World Government sent a ship to call for her, Nyon asks that she heed their call. Hancock attempts to play cute but Nyon insists that she go to keep the island safe, having lost the Calm Belt as protection from the government and their only current defense being her status as a Warlord of the Sea. Telling her that the elderly and the children will die if the Kuja Pirates are arrested, Hancock writes off Nyon as scared, though she denies this. As orders that she be thrown out are issued, Hancock refers to her as the former former empress who betrayed them and throws her out of the palace personally.
The large bell on the island then rings, signaling that the time for Hancock's bath has begun. The palace is evacuated and the streets fill with everyone from inside as going inside is not allowed. A young girl asks Ran why nobody is allowed inside when Hancock is taking a bath, to which Ran explains that Hancock and her two sisters once defeated a gorgon but were cursed as a result and so anyone who looked at their backs would be turned to stone. For everyone's safety, the gorgon was beaten but Hancock took the curse for it, for which the young girl compliments her.
Meanwhile, the guards continue to pursue Luffy through the forest but the young pirate makes his way out and up to the walls. Looking for a ship, Luffy decides to ask an important person for one and, believing that important people would live in a large building, decides to enter the palace. Landing on the roof, Luffy accidentally crashes through and lands in water. Initially believing that he is drowning, he simply stands up upon noticing that it is shallow and realizes that he is in a bathhouse. A completely naked Hancock, notices and realizes that it is a man. Seeing Hancock from behind, Luffy acknowledges seeing something on her back, greatly angering her.

Marigold and Sandersonia rush into the palace, asking their sister Hancock what is going on. They then notice Luffy and become confused as to why a man is on Amazon Lily. While Luffy attempts to clear things up, Hancock tells her sisters that he saw her back, shocking them. Marigold and Sandersonia then prepare to put Luffy to death, and Luffy asks why seeing Hancock's back was such a large crime, although he vaguely remembers seeing the thing on her back before.
Hancock tells him that the thing on her and her sisters' backs must never be seen, and attempts to kill a confused Luffy with a Mero Mero Mellow beam. However, Luffy mistakes the beam for a Noro Noro Beam, when he and Hancock both realize that the attack has not done what either of them expected. Hancock uses the move again, and Luffy braces himself for it, only to get the same result. Luffy stares at the Gorgon Sisters in confusion, and they stare back at him in the exact same way. Hancock and her sisters are at a loss as to why Luffy has not been turned to stone, even though he saw Hancock in the bath. Marigold attributes the anomaly to Luffy's fear of death overpowering his lust, and Luffy, though still confused, runs away in fear, still trying to look for someone important. He breaks through the palace wall and jumps out, much to Marigold and Sandersonia's shock, but Hancock, intent on not letting Luffy escape, shoots him with Pistol Kiss, sending him crashing to the ground. She then orders the still-shocked Kuja Pirates outside to capture Luffy.
Later, Luffy has been tied up using snakes and placed in an arena before the Gorgon Sisters and the entire Kuja Pirates. Luffy wonders why there is not a single man in this country, and Hancock asks him how and why he came to Amazon Lily. Luffy states that he doesn't know, which Hancock immediately dismisses, and Luffy then attempts to clear things up by stating that all he wants is a boat to leave the island. His blunt manner of addressing Hancock shocks the Kuja Pirates, and Hancock sentences him to death. Suddenly, Marguerite speaks up, saying that she believed Luffy was speaking the truth, and revealed that she originally brought him into the country, shocking the other Kuja. Sweet Pea and Aphelandra back her up, stating that they thought Luffy was one of their warriors at first due to him being covered in mushrooms, and share the blame for bringing him into the country.
Hancock then descends into the arena, and tells Marguerite to lift her head up. She then uses Mero Mero Mellow to turn Marguerite, Sweet Pea, and Aphelandra into stone. Luffy is confused and shocked to see the three become stone, while the other Kuja mourn their comrades' fate. Luffy angrily asks Hancock what she did to them, and Hancock orders Bacura to be brought out. She then sentences Luffy to die fighting against Bacura, who has served as her executioner for many years, and has not left even his victim's bones remaining. The snakes wrapped around Luffy unbind him, and the Kuja cheer on Bacura.

Boa Marigold and Boa Sandersonia activate their respective fruits, the Hebi Hebi no Mi, Model: King Cobra and Hebi Hebi no Mi, Model: Anaconda, and the spectators fawn over their new forms, believing them to have come from obtaining the Gorgon's power, which confuses Luffy. Hancock and the spectators encourage the two sisters to execute Luffy, who is currently busy moving the petrified Marguerite, Sweet Pea, and Aphelandra out of harm's way. His actions confuse Sandersonia and the spectators, and then he hops up to prepare to defeat the sisters. The spectators laugh at such an expectation, and Marigold warns Luffy that if he falls into the space between the arena and the stands, he will be impaled by the rows of spikes at the bottom.
The execution then begins, and Luffy is forced to dodge rapid strikes from Marigold's halberd, as well as her venomous spit. He attempts to kick her, but is repelled by the palm of her hand before being struck by the butt of her staff. He realizes in shock that her blunt attack hurt him and wonders how that could happen, and as he tries to get up and charge at Marigold again, Sandersonia grabs him with her tail, wanting to get a chance to play with him. Sandersonia is somehow able to hurt Luffy by constricting him, and she notes that he has no knowledge of Haki. She then predicts that he will attack with his right leg, and gets out of the way to avoid it. She slams Luffy into the ground with her tail, and this attack does not hurt him, but he is unable to land any attacks on her as she effortlessly dodges them, which the spectators state to be Haki. Marigold then strikes Luffy with her tail, sending him tumbling across the arena into the pit, and he barely manages to stay above the spikes.
Hancock remarks that it is hard to even describe how laughable Luffy is, and he tells her to be quiet as he gets back onto the arena, causing the spectators to fly into a rage and clamor for his death. Hancock echoes their wishes as she looks down on Luffy to the greatest degree, and Marigold and Sandersonia decide to give Luffy despair in addition to death. Sandersonia grabs the petrified Marguerite and prepares to shatter her to punish Luffy, causing him to become enraged as he remembers how she admired Hancock. Marigold constricts Luffy as Sandersonia prepares to slam Marguerite in the ground, but Luffy then shouts at them to stop. This unwittingly releases an effect that causes several of the spectators to lose consciousness, and a shell-shocked Marigold and Sandersonia release Luffy and Marguerite. The Kuja realize that Luffy just unleashed Haoshoku Haki, which only one in a million people possess, and they had never seen anyone but Hancock use it. As everyone wonders just who Luffy is, he declares that he will now fight with everything he has.

As Luffy activates Gear 2, the audience is amazed by the steam coming out of his body, but believe that he could never defeat Sandersonia and Marigold. However, as Sandersonia uses her eight branches technique, Luffy dodges all of her attacks with relative ease, and she wonders at how he is able to dodge all of her moves despite her using Haki and realizes he is able to dodge them because he is too fast that she herself not able to keep up. Luffy, with his astonishing speed, wraps his arm around her neck and throws her to the ground, surprising everyone. Marigold proceeds on swinging her weapon at him but he dodges and prepares to strike her and she defends herself stating it won't work. Despite her claim, Luffy uses Jet Bazooka to destroy her weapon and send her flying back. The whole crowd is shocked that Luffy is winning the fight and Hancock becomes irritated at Luffy and asks her sisters what the two of them are doing. Her sisters apologize and say they'll end things now.
Sandersonia uses her eight branches technique again while Marigold uses a technique that lights her hair on fire while the crow marvels at them using their strongest techniques. Luffy bends backwards as the sisters prepare to finish him and Luffy unleashes a Jet Gatling on them, once again shocking the whole crowd that he easily defends himself from Sandersonia and Marigold's strongest attacks. He kicks them in their stomachs, sending them crashing at each other and Sandersonia's hair is lit on fire from Marigold's technique. Marigold apologizes and tries to push herself away only to see their tails tied together while Luffy is doing the victory sign. Sandersonia tries to put herself out and almost falls out of the ring and her clothes start to burn, causing Hancock to worry and notices her back is exposed. Luffy jumps on her and the crowd thinks he is trying to finish her off and he is just so cruel. As Sandersonia yells at him to get off, he tells her not to move and so no one will see her back causing the shocked sisters to realize that he is helping to protect their secret.
Hancock thinks back about her telling Luffy that what's on their back is something they would rather die than let others see it. She then orders everyone to leave the arena, at which they do, realizing that Luffy is in fact, helping Sandersonia and the arena becomes empty. Marigold is amazed that a man would actually help them and Sandersonia asks Luffy why would he help them as they are enemies. Luffy responses that the thing on their back has nothing to do with their match while Nyon comments on Luffy's kindness and how Hancock and her sisters have been saved by the man they just tried to kill. Hancock, after seeing Luffy's kind personality, starts to weep.

At the arena, Sandersonia and Marigold apologize to Hancock for losing, but Hancock says it's fine and Luffy looks over at Marguerite's body and is relieved to see she's fine. As Luffy is done checking her, he looks up and asks Hancock if she's gonna fight him now, but Hancock says she won't and is done with all the fighting and just wants to end things now. When Luffy asks her to change the others back to normal and if she has the power to change them back, she confirms she does, but says she will give Luffy two options: he can have a ship and be transported back to Sabaody or return the others back to normal and find himself another way to get off the island himself and looks down on him with a smirk telling him to make a choice and thinks to herself to make his choice and show his true nature. However, Luffy gets on his knees in gratitude and asks her to turn them all back to normal, leaving Hancock speechless, prompting Nyon to comment on how Luffy with his willpower to bow to someone without hesitation to save his benefactors.
Afterwards, Marguerite and her friends are turned back to normal as the others are happy that they are all alright. When she asks what happened to Luffy the other Kuja's state he was invited to the palace alone, shocking everyone. At the palace, Sonia expresses her gratitude to Luffy for covering her back and apologizes for before and Luffy says it's alright since she said she's sorry and Marigold states if anyone saw what was really on their back they'd have to leave the country. While Luffy wonders what they mean, Hancock says he can come in behind the curtains and as he does, he thinks it's food only to be disappointed and confused as to why Hancock is naked, prompting Hancock to remark how his rudeness is astonishing, but forgets that and tells him to look at what he saw on her back again and tell her where he saw it before. The mark on her back is revealed as a hoof mark and as Luffy looks at it trying to remember it, Hancock tells him to hurry as this is not something she likes showing to others. Luffy states he remembers it and says he mistook it for the mark on Hatchis forehead from before. At that moment, Nyon comes in and tells Hancock about how she should trust him despite her saying she shouldn't have come in and is hesitant. However, Nyon reads from the newspaper and reveals of Luffy's assault on a World Noble and how he sent him flying with a punch, leaving the sisters speechless. Nyon comments at that moment it would be impossible to escape and yet Luffy ended up here causing Marigold to asks who he is and Luffy retorts saying that is what he's been trying to tell them and has no idea how he got there and also mentions he doesn't regret what he did to the noble. Hancock, overwhelmed with what she heard from Luffy begins to tear up relieved there are still people that will fight against those people and stand up for others, just like "him". When Luffy asks who she's talking about, Hancock, knowing she can trust him, states she'll tell him everything and tells him of her mark: the mark of the Celestial Dragons. She and her sisters were slaves.
When she was twelve, she and her sisters were kidnapped when they were on their ship as beginner pirates and sold to the Celestial Dragons and when she saw the first man in her life he painfully branded the mark on her back and caused her to hate men. Sonia starts screaming from the painful memories and Luffy says that they don't have to talk about it if they don't want to. Hancock and her sisters were slaves for four years and suffered the worst terrors ever until one day, a fish-man named Fisher Tiger climbed the Red Line and set all slaves free. And, though he hated humans, he did not discriminate and set all kinds of slaves free and burnt Mary Geoise down. While Hancock admitted she was afraid of the brutality he displayed, she stated they owe him a debt they can never repay and Nyon states it's because Tiger has been long dead and the remaining Sun Pirate members have scattered. Hancock says the fish-men slaves he freed decided to join him and he marked their slave symbols with the sun mark and notes that what Hatchi has on his forehead. When Luffy asks if Hatchi was a slave (since he has that very mark), Sonia says that's not the case as the sun mark's true purpose was to make others unable to tell slave from non-slaves. Hancock then reveals how she and her sisters were forcibly fed their Devil Fruits and how she lies and acts the way she does because she believes they would bring shame on their people and, crying uncontrollably, states she would rather lie to all of them then let them know the shame they went through and want to protect their honor rather than shame them, herself, and her sisters and how these memories are just so painful. Luffy can only watch with a stern and angry look after discovering the Celestial Dragons cruelty towards Hancock.
Nyon starts mocking Hancock over how she's amused how she had thought the snake princess's heart had turned as cold as ice from her experiences, but Hancock tells her to be quiet and remember her place as an outcast, but Nyon retorts that she should be more grateful that if Nyon hadn't been out at sea, all three of them would have nowhere to go and Nyon would never have found them if she wasn't away from her home. Hancock calls that just an old debt she's talking about, angering Nyon stating she raised her and her sisters as if they were her own daughters and Sonia and Marigold help calm her down. Hancock then turns away from Luffy and nervously asks if he scorns her knowing of her past as a slave, but Luffy says the only ones he hates are the World Nobles and not her. Hancock, while blushing, smiles, saying she likes Luffy, and offers him use of her ship, making Luffy very happy.

After telling Luffy all about her past, Hancock agrees to give him a ride to Sabaody Archipelago with her Perfume Yuda. She also invites Luffy to their banquet tonight and to rest inside. As Luffy parties, several Kuja's start poking him due to his rubber body and their interest in a man. Several more girls are interested in Luffy and want to touch him and he runs away despite them seemingly being attracted by his rubber body. He escapes with Marguerite to Elder Nyon's house.
At her house Luffy discovers that Hancock is one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea and admits his surprise. Nyon states that Hancock at 18 years old became the empress of the Kuja and quickly gained a notorious reputation, catching the attention of the Marines and even the World Government, who were frightened of her potential, as she had earned a large bounty of 80 million after only one campaign. Hancock later opted to join the Seven Warlords of the Sea in order to protect her fellow Kuja, by forming a treaty to protect their homeland, which prevented the World Government from entering the island. Nyon then reads on the paper about the war between the Whitebeard Pirates and the Marines and surprising Luffy further with Nyon commenting on his lack of knowledge and then reads off the prisoner on death row, his brother Portgas D. Ace is about to be taken to his execution. Luffy then is horrified by reading this as he listens that Blackbeard was the one who put Ace in prison and cuts Nyon off revealing he is Ace's brother, shocking Nyon. Luffy asks if Ace really is going to be executed and Nyon says he will and wonders when. She says it is in five days and that a trip to get back to Sabaody would take a week, and Luffy says it will be too late by the time he reunites with his crew, so he asks for a faster way. Nyon tells him that Ace is being held at Impel Down, the maximum security prison. Luffy decides to go rescue Ace before reuniting with his crew. He says sorry to his comrades after deciding to rescue Ace at Impel Down, and asks Elder Nyon how he can rescue Ace. She says that if Whitebeard wins the war, he might be saved. Nyon, however, points out that Luffy's plan to rescue his older brother is reckless as he is facing a full-fledged war, and since Ace is the most important prisoner there, and that Whitebeard will not let his men be killed without a fight, the Marines are preparing for a real battle, meaning that they are going to have both the admirals (Aokiji, Kizaru, and Akainu) and the other Warlords there as well. She claims that Luffy will be like a leaf whipped about by a storm, yet Luffy refuses to leave behind his own brother, claiming that he would never live with himself if he lost Ace. Elder Nyon tells him that there is only one other way to make it to his brother in time, by asking Hancock to accept the call of the Marines as a Marine battle ship can make it in time and Luffy goes to ask her with Nyon.
As Luffy and Nyon arrive to ask her, one of her subjects arrives and reveals that Hancock has contracted a fatal illness. Hancock has caught an unknown disease and feels in great pain for some reason. As Nyon deduces her illness, she says she knows the illness and when Hancock asks if she will die, Nyon says she will, much to Sonia's and Mary's anger telling her not to joke and she says she is not. She tells Hancock her illness is what killed her previous predecessors and that Luffy is here to see her and surprisingly, Hancock says she will see him, much to everyone's shock that she stood up, especially Nyon who wonders if Luffy really was able to change Hancock so much. On the balcony, Luffy sees her and asks if she is alright and she says no illness will get to her. Luffy tells her about his brother and his desire to save her and begs her to take him to Impel Down and answer the call to war. Sonia and Mary yell in anger claiming Luffy is using her and forcing her to relive her horrors as a slave to go to such a place and that this is why they hate men and refuse to let him use their sister like this. However, despite all this, Hancock, while blushing heavily, says she will happily answer the call and go wherever Luffy wishes, to which Luffy thanks her and now can make it to Ace on time. Her family is shocked by such a thing and her sisters asks what is happening and Nyon says that her sickness is called "Love Sickness" and that Hancock has fallen in love with Luffy and all the previous empresses died from being away from their loved ones and goes on to say that "love is like a hurricane".

Hancock is confused by her desire to do whatever Luffy requests without thinking it over. Nyon explains that it is love and warns that previous empresses who fell in love with men but chose to stay on the island, died from the pain of not being with their loved one. However, Hancock will survive if she goes with Luffy, meaning she must leave the island. Nyon also advises that by fulfilling her duty as one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea, Hancock will not only be defending Amazon Lily but also helping Luffy.
Outside, Luffy says his goodbyes to the Kujas and promises to have his crew visit them someday. As Hancock comes, she kicks aside a puppy and a baby seal and tells a Kuja to be more careful. When Luffy sees her and wishes to hurry, she looks away blushing, thinking she cannot look at him in the eyes. When someone tells him to call her Snake Princess, Hancock bashfully asks him to call her Hancock, wowing the Kuja's by her smile. However, Luffy accidentally calls her "Hammock" and she corrects him. Hancock leaves the country in the hands of her sisters, while she and the hidden Luffy set off for Impel Down aboard Vice Admiral Momonga's ship. Hancock unfreezes the Marines that were frozen in stone and they begin the way to the prison.
A Marine brings news to Sengoku that Hancock was heading towards the headquarters. Sengoku is apparently pleased, stating that Hancock was the sixth of the Seven Warlords. The seventh that is not willing to join the war against Whitebeard is Jinbe. Sengoku had Jinbe sent to Impel Down because the Warlord had vehemently opposed the war.
Another Marine enters, stating that Admiral Kizaru had captured 500 pirates from the Sabaody Archipelago Incident. Sengoku says not to annoy him unless it is about Whitebeard and that is when another Marine enters, saying that the Whitebeard Pirates were on the move. The Marine says that they lost contact with the 23 ships guarding Whitebeard, all of them instantly vanishing, most probably taken out by the Whitebeard Pirates. He also states that other pirate crews are on the move in the New World. Sengoku tells the Marines to start guarding Impel Down in case Whitebeard tries to break Ace out.
Meanwhile, Monkey D. Garp is in Impel Down, going to visit Ace in prison. Garp asks Ace if he is still alive, and Ace glares back.
This is when the Straw Hat Pirates start ending up after Bartholomew Kuma sent the Straw Hats flying.
Nami has landed on Weatheria, a Sky Island where the residents study the science of weather. In an effort to cheer her up, a man demonstrates the power of Wind Knots for Nami. When the gale knocks her over, she punches the man again.
Franky has landed in Baldimore, a futuristic kingdom on a Snow Island. Franky is attacked by a dog weapon, who mistook the cyborg for prey. Two citizens offer Franky clothing for the cold climate, but Franky refuses and teaches them his Super Dance.
Sanji has landed on Momoiro Island, also known as "The Second Isle of Women". He writes a mental letter to Nami and Robin as he runs away from a crowd of Okama, who insist that he become one as well.

On the Boin Archipelago in the Grand Line, Usopp is saved from a giant beetle by Heracles. Usopp then notices a strange fruit and examines it, but a man-eating plant attacks him, forcing Heracles to intervene once more. Heracles then warns him to always keep his guard up if he wants to survive.
Elsewhere in the Grand Line, in the Land of Poverty, Harahettania (on Namakura Island), several dozen priests believed they have summoned a demon, and are prepared to sell their souls to it. As the smoke clears, Brook is seen wondering where he has flown and wanting to find his crewmates again. Noticing a female priest, he asks to see her panties, inciting the priests to bring him some.
In the East Blue, Robin is being told about the construction of the giant bridge, Tequila Wolf. She is told that the workers there are basically slaves, criminals, and former citizens who defied the World Government. When told that the island-spanning bridge has been under construction for 700 years, she questions the man and is put to work.
In the South Blue, Chopper is discovered by large birds whom he believes are monsters. Unable to move, Chopper is rolled around by the birds and thrown off the side of their massive nest. Upon landing, natives discover him and state they want to make him into "tanuki stew." Chopper states that he is a reindeer, so one of the villagers decides to make reindeer stew instead.
On Kuraigana Island in the Grand Line, Perona is depressed over not having servants catering over her on her "trip" given to her by Kuma. Suddenly, another person crashes down, whom Perona recognizes as one of the Straw Hats: Zoro. She brings him inside the castle, wraps him in bandages, and lays him in bed. The next morning, he wakes, angrily yells at the memory of Kuma, and demands that Perona return his swords to him.
Days later, on the way to Impel Down, Boa Hancock berates a soldier for bringing a meal under 100 kilograms. Back in her cabin, Hancock feeds Luffy his food and lets him eat Sea King ham along with Salome. Luffy, satisfied with the feast, exclaims that he is stuffed, making the soldiers suspicious. Hancock, however, covers for Luffy and tells the soldiers that she needs that much food five times a day.
With six days until Ace's execution, powerful soldiers begin to gather at Marineford, such as Smoker, the Admirals, and many others. Marineford is on edge due to the destruction of their ships tailing Whitebeard, while at the land of Mary Geoise, a meeting of the remaining Warlords of the Sea (minus Hancock and Jinbe) is taking place. Despite all of them gathering in one place, the idea of them working together is "unthinkable."
In Ace's cell in Impel Down, Garp comments to Ace that war is inevitable even if Ace dies right now, as they have already angered the "Ruler of the Seas".

This chapter opens with Garp talking with Ace. They talk how Garp wanted Ace and Luffy to have become Marines like he had wanted. Ace then points out that they each have blood of a global-scale criminal and they could never be Marines. However Ace also mentions that he took his name "Portgas" from his mother that he says to have a great debt to, and that he does not care about his "useless" father. He then says that is the reason he joined Whitebeard and that he thinks of Whitebeard as his only father.
Then on the Marine ship that Luffy and Hancock are on, the Marines see Buggy the Clown's ship, and say that it is unimportant because they do not remember their flag. While on Buggy's ship Alvida talks with the crew and tells them that them sailing all the way there and buy an Eternal Pose was useless because their ship cannot get past the Calm Belt and the only other way is through the Gates of Justice where only marines can get in. The crew agrees to abandon Buggy. It then shows the many horrors of Impel Down. Such as a shadow of a beast with a club and horns that kills several prisoners and takes away their bodies. Then the Marine ship that Hancock is on arrives at Impel Down. Luffy looks out and sees that there are more ships here then when there were during the Buster Call. Hancock then tells Luffy to hide under her robes. Later Hancock is told that she will have to wear Seastone handcuffs and submit to a full body check this makes Hancock worry because they would find Luffy.

Hancock (with Luffy hidden under her robes) and Vice-Admiral Momonga arrive at Impel Down and are greeted by the Vice Chief of the prison, Hannyabal. Hannyabal apologizes for being ambitious (saying "my Impel Down"), and says that Chief Warden Magellan is on Level 4 and that they will be guided there by Hannyabal and Domino. Domino says that since they do not have much time, they will have to quickly conduct a full-body check. As they proceed, Domino explains that when prisoners arrive, they are disinfected, sterilized, and then "baptized" in boiling water before being imprisoned. She continues by stating that some of their recent arrivals, Crocodile, Jinbe, and Ace, did not even bat an eyebrow during the process, which is very impressive.
Domino then leads Hancock to a private room to check her, and asks her to remove her mantle for inspection. She offers Hancock some Seastone handcuffs, but Hancock quickly turns her and the visual Den Den Mushi to stone with her Devil Fruit powers. Luffy emerges from beneath her robes, and Hancock says that she is sorry that she was not able to take Luffy further into Impel Down.
Luffy thanks her for getting him into the prison, but Hancock asks him not to cause a ruckus, as he will be unable to escape if caught. Luffy promises her to do so, and then hides in the ceiling until Domino is finished and leaves the room with Hancock. Outside, Hannyabal reports that the visuals to the room are back, and Domino apologizes for taking too long with the inspection. Hancock is disgusted to be handcuffed, but Hannyabal says that these are rules, and that there is nothing to be ashamed of.
Hannyabal points her toward the lift to the lower levels, and Luffy successfully escapes the room and continues. On the lift, Hannyabal says that they can proceed straight to Level 4, but that it will be hot. He tells Hancock to be prepared, and says that while they are moving, she should enjoy the screams of the prisoners on Levels 1 through 3. Hancock sees Luffy and prays for his fortune, but mistakes his thank you as "I love you" and faints, much to the confusion of the jailers. Luffy turns away and pulls out his Vivre Card to find out where Ace is. Seeing the card pointing downward, Luffy heads out into the prison.
In another part of Impel Down, the Blue Gorillas have just returned from retrieving meat from Sea Kings. In the monitor room, a jailer reports that they have found Buggy, who was last seen on Level 1. Buggy, who heard the broadcast, punches a visual Den Den Mushi and runs, much to the amusement of the other prisoners. Some Blugori run past trying to catch Buggy.
At the same time, Luffy, following the Vivre Card, comes to a large door. He manages to sneak past the door when some jailers open it to catch Buggy. Luffy arrives at Level 1: Crimson Hell, and is asked by some prisoners if he is escaping. Luffy says he is from the outside, and asks where Ace is being kept. The prisoners tell him that Ace is most likely being kept on Level 5, where criminals with bounties over 100,000,000 are kept, and ask him to get the keys for them to escape.
Luffy then notices someone running from the Blugori, and sees the man get sliced in half. Luffy turns and runs, and notices that the man is Buggy, who is stunned to see Luffy in prison. Buggy wonders if Luffy was caught, but Luffy says that he entered on his own accord. Buggy thinks that Luffy came to save him, but immediately doubts that. Luffy tells him that he was trying to not cause trouble, but they notice more Blugori ahead and Buggy says that they will be tortured if caught. The two then turn and attack their pursuers, changing their plan to an uproar.

A Blugori swings his battle axe at Buggy, but since Buggy's Devil Fruit enables him to split his body parts, the Blugori misses. The lower part of his body lifts the Blugori and throws the Blugori in the air. Buggy uses Aerial Tailspin Big Circus to spin the Blugori when it hits the ground. But right after the Blugori starts to stand back up, he then attempts to strike Buggy. Luffy then punches the Blugori causing it to be knocked out. Buggy becomes surprised when notices that Luffy did defeat five Blue Gorillas. The other prisoners see how Luffy and Buggy defeated the Blue Gorillas and ask for the door to be opened. Meanwhile, four guards discuss there being a prisoner that escaped seeing another shadow.
Buggy tells Luffy that he knows Ace but refuses to help him. He then changes his mind after hearing that there are warships waiting outside and Luffy makes a deal with him. The deal is that Buggy will help him get where Ace is in return for Luffy giving Buggy his armband. Buggy then makes Luffy hold his feet and starts to lead him to Level 2. Luffy gets confused by Buggy showing him to Level 2 instead of Level 5. Buggy explains to Luffy the basic structure of Impel Down. There are 5 levels within this prison, each one containing different categories of prisoners, depending on the crimes they committed and how powerful they are. The farther down you go, the more powerful the prisoners are. Buggy reveals that he was tortured in Level 4 a few times until he was taken to Level 1, but that's as far as he has gotten, so Luffy is on his own after that. He then tells him that there might be even another floor under the lowest floor, Level 5, which is where bigshots like Ace would be. He explains that according to the rumors he heard, the criminals down there have committed crimes so awful, they were completely erased from history. There is a good chance that Ace is down there.
Buggy blurts out that Luffy's armband is Captain John's and it will lead to his treasure. He figures that Luffy did not notice it, but he did and Buggy attempts to kill him. Luffy then hands over the armband to Buggy, even though he knows that Buggy might run away. Buggy gratefully cries because of Luffy, and plans to get away from him. He does not see what's behind him and runs into a wall. Luffy thinks it is the quickest way and punches Buggy through the wall. They enter the guard's room, and crash into another wall out to Impel Down Level 1: Crimson Hell.
In Impel Down Level 1: Crimson Hell, prisoners ask for help. Luffy and Buggy continue to fall, but Buggy insists that he has a plan and they will not be cut. He commands Luffy to throw his feet on the ground, his feet then start walking. They head for the escape route in Level 1. Buggy explains that the escape route connects to Level 2, which is even worse than Level 1. Luffy then jumps down the escape route. Buggy plans to run away again, a Blugori throws its battle axe at Buggy making him fall into the escape route. Meanwhile in Level 2: Wild Beast Hell, the beasts become wilder than usual. Mr. 3 sits in his prison cell not afraid of the beasts.

A Basilisk is seen towering over Luffy and Buggy. Luffy and Buggy run for their lives, while the Basilisk follows them. Buggy says to Luffy that he intended to ditch Luffy and run for his life. He reveals that the Basilisk is a snake that born from a chicken and that Level 2 of Impel Down was filled with crazy monsters like the Basilisk. Luffy is surprised that a chicken could have a kid like a Basilisk but Buggy replies with the fact that chickens normally do not, that's why they are called monsters. He also says that one of the reasons they are being kept in Impel Down is because if monsters were roaming in the outside world, they would kill people. The Basilisk tries to bite Luffy, at which Luffy jumps, then prepares to fight the Basilisk head on.
Boa Hancock comments about the heat in Impel Down, saying it was too hot. Domino points out that beyond the walls of the Chief Warden's office, was an inferno. When Momonga asks where Magellan is, Domino replies with Magellan's schedule:
Momonga wonders about Magellan's suitability in this job. Domino says that Magellan is a reliable man when push comes to shove and has the powers of the Doku Doku no Mi.
Magellan walks out, a gigantic man (although not a giant) with horns and devil wings. He introduces himself and comments about the toilet, saying it was a "vicious struggle". Magellan also says that it is too bright, saying he wants to be in a closed off space, while wanting to close his heart off to the world. Hannyabal introduces their visitors.
Magellan apologizes for being late, as he was relieving himself. Hannyabal suggests that it might be all the poison that Magellan is eating. With this, Magellan says that he loves poison saying "poison should be fought with poison". Hannyabal tells Magellan to hurry up and slip from his seat, accidentally, when he was supposed to mean for Magellan to quickly take the visitors to see "Fire Fist" Ace. Magellan says that he has been cursed with such subordinates.
He sighs and as he does, he lets out a breath of poison. Hannyabal is overcome for a short bit, while Hancock, Domino and Momonga are wearing gas masks. Outraged, Hancock jumps on Magellan's chest and looks up, saying that the air was foul with his poison. Magellan comments about Hancock's beauty, saying that "she's a real looker!". Meanwhile, Hannyabal is sitting in the Chief Warden's seat, with Domino pointing that out. Momonga simply says they are in a hurry.
Hannyabal answers a Den Den Mushi, when Magellan uses his poison breath on him for answering it. When Magellan answers, he gets the report of an intruder in Impel Down. Magellan quickly orders visuals, while Hannyabal blames Magellan for the first-ever intrusion in Impel Down. Scared that Luffy had already been discovered, Hancock uses her beauty and infatuates Magellan, who says that he will immediately take them down to Fire Fist Ace.
Jailers run around, while one confirms that "Straw Hat" Luffy was running around with Buggy. Another jailer states that they cannot establish contact with Level 2 Monitor Room.
The monitor room is seen smashed, with the unconscious Basilisk on top of the remains. Buggy is shocked. It appears that Luffy has used Gear 3 and defeated the Basilisk, as he has shrunken and Buggy said that Luffy's hand grew big. Luffy urges them to go down to Level 3 when suddenly, prisoners are cheering Luffy on, as the 'god of salvation'. They ask to be freed, pointing to the keys. One prisoner recognizes Luffy. This prisoner is Mr. 3, after he was caught by the Marines, he was sent to Impel Down. Buggy frees a number of prisoners, who are cheering Buggy on.
As they celebrate their release, Luffy grabs Buggy and asks for the entrance to the next level. However, Buggy states that he lied, only wanting the arm band Luffy had. He also reveals about starting a prisoner riot on Level 2 but as he turns around, all the prisoners had returned to their cages, saying if the 'boss' of Level 2 was still around, they would be better off in their cage. Buggy turns to Luffy and says that they are going down to Level 3, at which Luffy argues with Buggy about his decision.
At this point, Mr. 3 steps in, displaying his Devil Fruit power, the Doru Doru no Mi. Luffy recognizes Mr. 3 as "san" (meaning 3 in Japanese) from Little Garden.
A gigantic man is seen shouting, while in chains. The same guard first seen in the first moments of Impel Down is seen beating this man with its mace then going out. The man complains "I cannot even scratch where it itches", even though he had just been beaten up. Ace is seen, saying that the old man got beaten up again.
This old man is introduced as "The Boss of the Sea", Jinbe who formerly held a 250,000,000 bounty. Jinbe states that his heart is hurting, as he wants to deal justice and that he would gladly toss out his Warlord status and give up his life, to end a fighting taking place.

Jinbe states that the World Government knows him as a "pirate-hating pirate". However, he said to Portgas D. Ace, who is in the same cell, that the Whitebeard Pirates are a different story. He reveals while Portgas D. Ace, the Fire Fist, Second Division Commander was sailing the seas, Jinbe had visited Whitebeard's ship several times. Ace is reminded of a time when Jinbe had nearly killed him in a fight.
Jinbe goes on to say that the only reason there is peace on Fish-Man Island is because of "good ol' Whitebeard." As we know, most pirates have to pass through Fish-Man Island, which is in the Red Line, to get to the New World. Jinbe states that since the beginning of the great Pirate Age, humans in their hordes passed through Fish-Man Island, followed by the Marines, chasing after them. When humans passed through, many fish-men and mermaids were kidnapped, and when the fish-men were about to give up forever, Whitebeard appeared and declared that Fish-Man Island was now his territory. Jinbe states that he will never forget that day. From that day forth, no finger was ever laid on a fish-man again, due to Whitebeard's reputation. It is also assumed by Jinbe that more islands are being protected by Whitebeard's name and that if Whitebeard were to die, then the sea would turn back to the olden days.
Jinbe says that he wants to get out of Impel Down to stop the fighting and free Ace. He says that he is waiting for a miracle to happen, when he is interrupted by a laugh. This person comments on the situation, saying it was "fine". He says that his blood was racing, as there was a one-in-a-lifetime chance to kill Whitebeard. Jinbe recognizes him but Ace laughs, asking if he was going to take Whitebeard's head. The voice replies, not just him and the entire Level chorus in agreement. Prisoners celebrate that Whitebeard could die, shouting "time to put an end to the Age of Whitebeard." The voice tells Jinbe and Ace that there are lots of "silver medalists", people who choked back their tears as they were beaten by Whitebeard or Roger.
Images show up on a monitor's screen: a Basilisk knocked out, its unconscious body flattening the Level 2 Monitor Room. A jailer spots the perpetrators on a monitor, saying that they are three rather than the first assumption of two intruders. Luffy, Buggy and Mr. 3 are battling puzzle scorpions and manticores. Buggy mistakes the manticores for the Boss of Level 2 but Mr. 3 shoots down the idea, saying manticores were man-eating lions with human parts. A manticore speaks and says, "Give us the Keys!" which surprises Luffy. Mr. 3 explains that the human part of the manticores gave them speech and that they were repeating what the prisoners were saying. As if on cue, the manticores shout out names of traditional Japanese underwear. One manticore says, "beef steak," at which point Luffy turns around but is forced to keep running, after being told not be distracted.
Mr. 3 is surprised that Luffy is trying to get in, rather that out to save Ace. Mr. 3 tries to leave but is stopped by Luffy, who tells him where to go. Mr. 3 decides to help Luffy only to escape on his own, remembering that the stairs from Level 1 lead down to level 3 also. Mr. 3 bumps into what appears to be a dead end, only to be a Sphinx, a human faced, feathered lion. Being the boss of Level 2, it chases the trio around, shouting random names of noodles. The Sphinx tries to flatten the trio while the prisoners comment on the Sphinx, saying it is going wild. Luffy also comments, saying that it is strong. However, Mr. 3 and Buggy formed the "Jailbreak Gang" and started Operation Use-Straw Hat-Luffy-As-Bait. To their horror, Luffy used "Gomu Gomu no Bazooka" on its head, making it angrier. Buggy flies towards the ceiling, using his Bara Bara no Mi. The Sphinx flattens Mr. 3 who crumbles, which turns out only to be a statue of him, due to his Doru Doru no Mi powers. Mr. 3 continues to make wax figures of himself, which the Sphinx destroys all of them, resembling a game of "whack-a-mole". The ground starts to shake and Level 3 Monitor Room reports a great commotion on Level 2. Buggy and Mr. 3 run for the door to stairway when the floor collapses, due to the Sphinx smashing the wax figures. The Sphinx, Luffy, Mr. 3, and Buggy fall into Level 3.

As the jailers report the gigantic hole left by the Sphinx and Luffy, a bunch of escaped prisoners secretly approach the jailers and are armed. Shocked that the prisoners of Level 2 are free (by Buggy), one requests back-up as the jailers meet their fate.
A jailer rushes in, stating that Fleet Admiral Sengoku had discovered the motive of Luffy's intrusion. They reveal that Ace and Luffy are brothers. A jailer confirms this as Luffy had been going through one Hell after the other. He orders the Blue Gorillas to Level 2 and requests Magellan's assistance.
Garp is seen sitting on a couch next to a person while Sengoku calls Luffy a fool for entering Impel Down while the Whitebeard War is about to take place. He lists events such as Enies Lobby and the Celestial Dragon incident. Then Sengoku reveals that a man named Golden Lion, the "Flying Pirate" had escaped 20 years ago from Impel Down, being the first in history to do so.
Sengoku then goes on to curse the fact that the first person to break into Impel Down since then was Garp's grandson, Luffy. He curses Kuma for lying to him, saying that he did not believe a single word of Kuma's that the Straw Hat Pirates had been eliminated. Sengoku states that if Garp wasn't the "Hero of the Marines", he would make him take responsibility of his family's actions. However, Garp continues to laugh and joke about the situation.
Luffy notices that the third floor of Impel Down was very hot and that the floor was similar to a frying pan. Buggy curses Luffy for making come along to another Level of Hell, whilst Mr. 3 experiments with his Doru Doru powers. He produces an amount of wax which instantly melts.
A grilled bird comes down and lands on the floor, to Luffy's delight. Mr. 3 explains that a hummingbird may have traveled through the hole in Level 2 and got cooked on the way down. He also reveals that everyone on Level 3 had a bounty of 50,000,000 or higher. Mr. 3 goes on to say that the intense heat rising from Level 4 made it nearly impossible to grow food or water, forcing prisoners to a near death state, earning the Level a nickname of the "Starvation Hell".
The trio notices a skeleton tied to a x-frame cross. Mr. 3 urges them to move forward while they have sweat in their bodies. Through a mouthful of food, Luffy tells the other two to hurry to Level 4. At that point, the trio start arguing over who said what. Whilst this is happening, a jailer orders to raise a net. At this point, the Sphinx gets caught up in a net, taking the trio with them.
Luffy tries to bite through, only to find that the net is as tough as steel. Buggy discovers that this was a Seastone net, while a number of jailers and Blue Gorillas had appeared beneath them. A short figure holding a Devil's trident approaches them and introduces himself as Saldeath to the captured trio. Luffy responds with the fact that Saldeath does not look like a monkey, due to a Japanese pun.
Saldeath states that resistance is futile as they were underwater and that they should be grateful that they were captured by him, not someone else. He goes on and says that had they proceeded to Level 4, they would have encountered the Four Jailer Beasts or Magellan. Suddenly, a jailer notices that the Sphinx had woken up and begins to fidget wildly inside the net. It then rips it open, shouting "soup spaghetti". Luffy lands on the floor but is met by Blue Gorillas. He responds almost instantly, using Gomu Gomu no Gatling Gun, sending them flying. Luffy looks for Mr. 3 and Buggy and finds out they had climbed up the rope and onto a beam. The two taunt Luffy, stating they had tricked him. However, Luffy simply thanks them for their assistance.
Saldeath orders jailers not to let their guard down as Luffy had a 300,000,000 bounty. Luffy continues to smash through Blue Gorillas when the Sphinx raises its paw and smashes more jailers by accident. Luffy flings a Blue Gorilla at jailers and escapes.
Buggy and Mr. 3 rest on the gigantic beams. Soon, Mr. 3 and Buggy hears someone singing. Mr. 3 soon recognizes the voice to his horror and finds Mr. 2 conducting his cellmates into the Okama Way.
Mr. 2 soon notices Mr. 3 and Buggy outside his cage and ponders how they could be free inside Impel Down. Mr. 3 suggests they do not release Mr. 2 but Buggy stares in wonder at Mr. 2, calling him a "strange creature".

The Marines are in an absolute frenzy since the high security prison Impel Down has been successfully invaded by a lone pirate. They make it their number one priority to capture the culprit. A chief guard of Impel Down, Sadi mentions that the lower half of Impel Down is a hellish labyrinth that a man with no real idea of where they were going will only end being collateral damage. She orders the raising of the drawbridge, effectively sealing out the outside world. A large koala peeks out from the door behind Sadi.
Meanwhile, Hannyabal and Magellan escort Boa Hancock to where Ace is, before introducing her. Jinbe and Ace seem shocked while the other prisoners there with them begin to riot, excited simply by her presence and beginning to speak excitedly about Amazon Lily. Ace questions what she wants with him, while Jinbe is disgusted with her for lending a hand to the World Government. All the while the prisoners continue to riot, which she aggravates further by giving a cute face. Magellan then puts it down by using his poison Hydra, urging her to finish her business quickly with Ace. She then quickly turns around and says that she is already finished with him. Ace is shocked and asks her if she is serious, but Hancock simply confirms that she has no reason to lie. Magellan and Hannyabal stand around puzzled by the conversation wondering if the other heard it. Jinbe also asks him this question, to which Ace replies with a deeply troubled face and admits that his brother is in the prison. Jinbe is also shocked and mentions that is deeply reckless of him to do.
In the Starvation Hell, Luffy wanders around deeply lost to where he is, while the Marines suddenly attack. Luffy gets in trouble with the Sphinx before seeing Zoro, much to his delight. However, it is actually Mr. 2 Bon Kurei in disguise, much to Luffy's further delight and disappointment. Together they defeat the creature and celebrate in meeting each other again. As Saldeath orders the Bluegori to stop them, Mr. 2 and Luffy stand prepared to fight and are both united in their missions to reach Level 5.

In Impel Down, guards have successfully identified three prisoners aiding Luffy: Buggy, Mr. 3, and Mr. 2. Mr. 2 and Luffy have defeated many Blue Gorillas and are heading for Level 4. Buggy and Mr. 3 are creating a riot on Level 2, and some prisoners listening in to the situation say that the incident is taking an edge off of the boredom, though they are just going to be caught in the end. On Level 4, Magellan is surprised to hear about the situation, and wonders what Saldeath is doing. However, since the Blugori were ineffective against Luffy and Mr. 2, they were reassigned to Level 2, which Magellan was not informed of because he was so preoccupied with Hancock. Sadi appears and tells Magellan that Minotaurus is on Level Three. Magellan leaves Level 2 to Saldeath and tells everyone else to assemble on Level 4. Magellan continues by saying that if Luffy and Mr. 2 manage to escape the Minotaurus, then he will deal with them on Level 4.
On Level 3, Luffy and Mr. 2 encounter the Jailer Beast, Minotaurus. Luffy wonders if it has an ability, but the Jailer Beast appears from nowhere and hits Mr. 2 with a spiked mace. Luffy is surprised, and barely manages to dodge the monster's next attack, only to be hit and sent flying back as well. Mr. 2 knocks the Minotaurus away, but is trapped and choked. Luffy enters Gear 2 and hits the Minotaurus with a "Jet Bazooka", sending it flying up the stairs. Luffy asks Mr. 2 if he is alright, but he is just worried about his ruined makeup. Luffy wants to continue, and Mr. 2 tells him that the way to Level 4 is by climbing the wall and down to Level 4, the Blazing Hell. Mr. 2 then states that he wants to keep going in order to find someone in Level 5, but Buggy and Mr. 3 suddenly reappear with the Minotaurus following close behind. Buggy, seeing no other option, decides to use a Muggy Ball, a condensed version of his extremely powerful Buggy Ball. The Minotaurus withstands the attack, but Mr. 2 strikes from above, leaving the Minotaurus vulnerable to Luffy's wax-coated "Gomu Gomu no Tonkachi Rifle". The impact causes the floor to collapse, sending the entire group to Level 4.

At the back passage of Impel Down, Boa Hancock is questioning Vice-Admiral Momonga on the time of Ace's execution. Momonga states that it will take place in 29 hours, and that the convoy to pick him up will come tomorrow. He also states that this is on the 1/1000 chance that nothing will happen in that time. On board the Marine ship, a Marine informs Momonga of a recent dispute between Red-Haired Shanks and another of the Four Emperors, Kaidou. It is said that Kaidou was looking to intercept Whitebeard, but Shanks interfered. Momonga is frustrated that there is nothing they can do about it, and states that there is virtually no chance of avoiding the fight with Whitebeard. His ship then departs for Marineford.
Inside the well tower of Impel Down's Level 3, Buggy and Mr. 3 are arguing with Luffy, telling him to escape and not go any further into the prison. As Mr. 2 tells Luffy to ignore them, they notice the ceiling getting higher, only to then realize they are falling into Level 4. As they fall, they argue over whose hit destroyed the floor, then panic at being baked by the severe heat.
At Level 4's pond of blood, a few prisoners who cannot stand the intense heat attempt to escape, only to be headbutted into the boiling cauldron by Daz Bonez. Other prisoners notice the presence of Hannyabal, Magellan, and many guards and speculate on what is occurring to warrant these measures. Magellan and his troops assume that Luffy and his allies have fallen into the pool of blood, but are told that he was shielded by rubble that had fallen with him. It is also shown that the Minotaurus has been defeated as well. Magellan then tells Sadi-chan to guard the entrance to Level 5 with the Jailer Beasts, and Hannyabal to guard the entrance to Level 3 with his troops.
Luffy and his allies are meanwhile making their way across a bridge on Level 4, as all of them complain about the heat. Suddenly, Luffy runs off in a random direction, having smelled food. The others follow, as they too are starved, but Luffy runs into a pack of guards. Luffy defeats them and proceeds, but Buggy and Mr. 3 hide from the other troops. Mr. 3 comments on the power of Impel Down's guards, stating that it is all over if Magellan comes. At this moment, Magellan drops out of nowhere in front of Luffy and prepares to fight.

The guards immediately race to get away from Magellan after he arrives, asking that he wait before fighting Luffy. Bentham pleads with Luffy to get away from Magellan, revealing that the Warden ate the Doku Doku no Mi. Magellan is greatly displeased that Luffy has made it this far, and is determined to stop him and find out how he managed to enter the prison. Bentham pleads for Luffy to escape to Level 5, but Magellan reveals that all the exits are blocked before making a hydra out of poison. The hydra's heads pursue Luffy and hit some of the guards in the process. Bentham reveals that the hydra's poison overloads the victim's nervous system with pain until it kills them. The poisoned guards beg for an antidote, but Magellan tells them that they should not have gotten in his way.
Luffy pulls himself across a chasm to escape the hydra, and the massive heat rising from the chasm causes one of the heads to evaporate. However, Magellan then spits a "Chloro Ball" at Luffy, engulfing him in a large explosion. The attack unleashes gas, and the guards put on masks as Luffy and the prisoners' senses are overwhelmed. Magellan then uses "Venom Road" to move through his hydra across the chasm, landing right in front of the disoriented Luffy. Magellan puts his horns over his hands and swings them at Luffy. Luffy barely manages to dodge them, and watches in shock as one of them hits the wall and melts part of it. Magellan attacks again, and Luffy barely manages to counter the horn with his sandal, causing it to strike the bridge and melt away part of it. Luffy is forced off the bridge, but manages to push himself to land on ground.
Bentham watches from around the corner and tearfully apologizes to Luffy as he forces himself to run away for his life. Meanwhile, Galdino decides to take the opportunity for him and Buggy to fight their way back to Level 3, as the Jailer Beasts are all down guarding the way to Level 5. Buggy initially refuses, but then agrees, thinking they have a shot of taking down Hannyabal while everyone else is preoccupied. Meanwhile, Luffy refuses to submit to Magellan or get killed before he rescues Ace, and he activates Gear 2. Magellan is unsure of what he is doing, and Luffy hits him in the chest with "Gomu Gomu no Jet Bazooka", although he gets poison on his hands in the process.

Outside of the entrance to level three, Hannyabal stands above a defeated Buggy and Mr. 3, saying that he would have let them pass in order to blame Magellan if they had not attacked him dead-on. On a bridge on level four, Mr. 2 fights his way through the guards, apologizing to Luffy for leaving him with Magellan. Magellan berates Luffy for thinking that his attack would have any effect on him while commenting on the pain Luffy is in from the poison. Despite his torment, Luffy attacks again, but his attack has little effect. Magellan attacks with his Hydra, but Luffy dodges and tries again, only to be repelled once more. Using a cloud of poison, Magellan disables Luffy's senses and nervous system.
On level six, Ace asks about the situation upstairs, but is rejected. Luffy attempts to hit Magellan, but the poison prevents him from hitting the warden. Magellan comments on his mental strength, then defeats him with a final attack and orders the guards to take him to level five for temporary storage, seeing as Luffy is going to die in 24 hours, unable to save Ace.
On level five, the prisoners notice Luffy's unconscious arrival and ask about his bounty. Seeing his condition, they say that he has received the poison treatment and say that he is done for.
Back at the entrance to level three, Magellan finds Hannyabal and his troops defeated. Hannyabal claims to have been defeated by Mr. 2, prompting Magellan to take care of business elsewhere. Hannyabal tells his troops to leave, then moves into the interrogation room with Buggy and Mr. 3. Here, Mr. 2 shows his true face, as he had been posing as the vice-warden to fool Magellan. He states that he is returning to save Luffy, to which Buggy tells him it is pointless. Mr. 2 yells that they are friends, stating that they need no further reason.

Hannyabal (Bentham in disguise) is in the medical room, asking about Luffy's condition. The doctor tells him it is impossible to create an antidote to counteract multiple poisons from Magellan at once. There is no way to save him. Outside, Galdino tells him that miracles like fighting Magellan and living to tell about it do not happen. That gives Bentham an idea. He has to find Iva, the miracle worker. Bentham determines Iva is the only one who can help. Buggy and Galdino are confused as to who he is talking about. Outside the door to the Level 4 staircase, "Hannyabal" tells the guards he is transferring the prisoners (Buggy and Galdino) to Level 5. While going down the stairs, Bentham is looking at the list of prisoners on Level 5, he sees the name "Emporio Ivankov" crossed out, and wonders if that means he was released or executed. He asks a guard and the guard explains that prisoners with their names crossed out were victims of the "demoning away", an unexplained phenomenon where prisoners would suddenly go missing without explanation. When they reach the door, the guard tells Bentham he will be taking his things. It turns out that Hannyabal likes to make the point of going into Level 5 wearing next to nothing and with no weapons to demonstrate his toughness. The guard also says it would be laughable to have the prisoners to wear coats too. It is also revealed that the Den Den Mushi on Level 5 do not work because of the extreme cold.
The three of them are then surrounded by four wolves from the Wolf Unit. The reason the wolves aren't allowed on Level 2 is because when they were, they began eating the other wild beasts. Bentham prepares to face off against them as Buggy and Galdino run away so fast they break out of their shackles. Inside a tower cell on Level 5, prisoners are sitting around the writhing Luffy. One of them asks if they were put in charge of determining his time of death. Luffy struggles to get up, and then rams his head into the bars, trying to break them. The prisoners try to tell him his death is inevitable, but he will not listen. Luffy says he has to save Ace, which the prisoners think is crazy, since Luffy himself is beyond saving, and that prisoners should only look out for themselves. They look out and see a half-naked figure standing in the cold. A blood-soaked Bentham calls out to Luffy, apologizing for abandoning him. He opens the door and drags Luffy away. One of the prisoners picks up the keys he left behind, and says he never thought about running away before. Bentham asks them about Ivankov. They tell him they have no idea where "he" went. A prisoner in another cell points to a forest, saying there is an unused jailer's office on the other side. He has seen someone come and go from that room from time to time. As Bentham walks away, another prisoner tells the one who gave Bentham the directions that the forest is the wolves' den. The man jokingly acted as if he forgot. Bentham is pulling Luffy in the sled, and tells himself he has to keep going for Luffy's sake, even if there is only the slimmest chance Iva could save him. As he is walking, wolves appear behind him. The wolves attack, and Bentham is able to fight them off until one of them bites him in the leg. The wolves then jump on him. Then, Luffy somehow manages to get up and bite one of the wolves. He yells for the wolves to get back, causing them all to pass out, much like what happened on Amazon Lily. Bentham can only stare in awe at Luffy. The chapter ends with a mysterious figure, dressed in black and white with a lightning bolt scar and holding a glass of wine standing over the two unconscious bodies.

Surprisingly, Nami appears in this chapter, as a prisoner. Hannyabal succumbs Nami's charms and enters the Weapons Room. Suddenly, Nami turns into Mr. 2 and ties Hannyabal up, leaving him wondering what is going to happen.
Magellan is seen shouting "Too Much Poison!", while having a diarrhea attack.
Blue Gorillas are seen patrolling the prison cells. Saldeath reported that every prisoner in the riot had been returned to their cells, however, many keys were missing from the original keyring.
Sadi is seen holding a mugshot of Mr. 2 and orders a number of human jailers and 3 of the 4 Jailer Beasts to search for Mr. 2.
However, as time passes, Mr. 2 wakes up to a room where there are a number of people drinking beer and eating gourmet food. They all are in clothes and all are partying. Two women state that he still is in Impel Down. The person who found Luffy and Mr. 2 reveals herself as Inazuma. She confirms that Mr. 2 had been asleep for 10 hours and soon after that, Mr. 2 bombards her with questions when suddenly, the lights go out and a person is seen taking the stage and calls out Mr. 2's name, to his surprise. This person confirms that to get to the "Prisoner's Paradise", you must go through "the road that cannot exist". He labels the highlights of this place and abolishes the "myth" of prisoners being "demoned away".
Emporio Ivankov takes the stage and is seen performing with a number of men behind him in fishnet stockings. Iva welcomes Mr. 2 to his New Kama Land. Mr. 2 calls out Iva-chan, where other prisoners mutter that saying that is rude. However, Iva does not mind, saying "You could call me crap!" but then shouts that he does not want to be called crap.
Bellett shouts "Emporio Ivankov!", then goes on and tells a story of his family, where his Father, a Royal King, traveled to Kamabakka Kingdom, where Iva had been once Queen. The man goes on to say that his father came back as an Okama and that he became a pirate. He said to Iva, that before he rots in Impel Down, he would kill Iva first. Iva instantly tells him to drop the massive gun he is holding, that it could potentially kill him. However, Iva suddenly shouts "I will not die!" and a relieved audience just sighs in relief. Despite this, the man fires a cannonball at Iva. Then, Iva does something extraordinary. Iva looks at the cannonball, says "Death Wink", winks, and repels the cannonball. This ultimately leads to the man himself being hurt by his own cannonball, exploding in smoke but not dying. Iva appears in front of the man and shouts "Emporio: Female Hormones!".
The man starts transforming and during that, Iva says "Two mothers and a daughter! Get along!" and ultimately turns him into a her. Bellett, now a girl, runs out in complete embarrassment. Iva simply shouts that they were here in New Kama Land, to transcend gender, to create a new race. Suddenly, Mr. 2 bows and asks for Iva to heal Luffy, as Iva had been nicknamed the "Miracle Worker". It is then revealed that Luffy had asked Iva to heal Mr. 2, rather than to heal himself. However, Iva decided to heal Luffy as well and Luffy had been screaming for 10 hours straight.

In New Kama Land, Ivankov says that he will take 10 years off of Luffy's lifespan in order to save him. However, Ivankov states that this will not definitely save him, but raise his chance of survival from 0% to 2-3%. He also states that Luffy needs to have great willpower in order to save himself and then injects Luffy with "Emporio: Healing Hormones". Thus, Luffy began screaming and would do so for 10 hours.
Mr. 2 Bon Kurei is astounded at what Ivankov did. Ivankov explains that all he did was draw out energy from Luffy and bolstered his immune system, to a point where it was capable of fighting Magellan's poison. He also says that hormones and willpower are what a human needs to get saved. However, Mr. 2 looks in and to his horror, Luffy was still screaming. He begs Ivankov for Luffy to be released, only to be knocked back.
Ivankov shouts at Mr. 2, saying that he has never helped a poor man relying on others but saved countless countries from poverty. Ivankov states he is no "miracle worker" but that real miracles descend only on those with willpower. Ivankov then explains his Devil Fruit ability, the Horu Horu no Mi. He says he is an "engineer" of the human body, where his ability allows the change of body temperature, pigmentation, gender, growth, emotional state, etc.; simply the power to remodel the human body from within.
Ivankov then starts talking to Mr. 2 and tells him that he already seems like a "Newkama". Ivankov says that those around him had truly transcended gender, that men here were women and vice versa. He then says that every person here and accidentally wandered in, by using secret entrances from any Level from 1-5. He states that they had their own monitor room and that they stole newspapers to keep up with the outside world. Ivankov also adds that they enjoyed watching Luffy's break in to Impel Down, saying that it was "top class entertainment".
Mr. 2 then asks about how this place was created as they have so much space. Ivankov simply replies with that there was nothing. But then a man with a Devil Fruit that gave him a "tunneling" ability. He then reveals that he dug Level 5.5 out and that it was in between Level 5 and Level 6. To Mr. 2's surprise, Level 6 exists, where Ivankov states only the world's most atrocious criminals are and that they had been deemed fit to be erased from history.
Ivankov then goes on about Luffy's attempt, that if he tried his attempt earlier, it would have failed as there was a man named "Shiryu of the Rain", who was the head jailer at Impel Down. Shiryu was known to be stronger or at least equal to Magellan. With Magellan and Shiryu, the "Stars" of Impel Down, it was truly impenetrable.
Meanwhile, Shiryu stands holding a blood-covered sword with a number of prisoners surrounding him. Magellan stands up for the prisoners, with Shiryu replying with that the prisoners were trash. Nothing more is revealed but it is assumed that Magellan took on Shiryu, defeated him, and eventually imprisoned him in Level 6.
It was revealed that Shiryu went on a rampage slaughtering prisoners randomly and was deemed fit for Level 6. Ivankov goes on and names three other Level 6 prisoners: Catarina Devon, the most dangerous female prisoner, "Colossal Battleship" Sanjuan Wolf and "Heavy Drinker" Vasco Shot. Ivankov says that Mr. 2's former Boss, the former Warlord of the Sea is also imprisoned there. Ace was also being held there and the "Knight of the Sea", Jinbe was being held in Level 6 as well. Ivankov also reveals Ace's execution time, 1500 hours and that he will be moved in the morning, transferred to the Marines and moved to Marineford.
Ivankov also suggests that Luffy has to stay in that condition for another two more days even though Ace is to be moved in eight hours (0000 hours at the time). A glum Mr. 2 is told to rest and eat himself, but he shouts that he would go and sleep in Luffy's room. Later, Ivankov and the other New Kamas watch Mr. 2 shouting at Luffy's room, telling him to hang on, and to make it out alive.
On Level 3, Sadi is whipping the Four Jailer Beasts, saying that could not even find an okama.
Mr. 2 is shouts words of encouragement but this time joined by others, cheering Luffy on.
Three hours later, a jailer reports that someone has finished completely vanished from Level 5. On Level 4, jailers discover Hannyabal, strung up in the weapons room.
Seven hours later, everyone, from Mr. 2 to Ivankov, is still cheering Luffy on. On Level 6, Jinbe suggests to Ace that Hancock had simply lied to him, but Ace refuses to believe that. Ace says that Luffy was always doing reckless stuff and that he always made him worry.
Eight hours later, Domino quickly states to Magellan, who was sitting on the toilet at the time, that the time for Ace's transfer had arrived.
Luffy stops screaming. Ivankov states that the pain should not cease at any point during the healing process and indicates that Luffy had died, as blood had come under the door. But then, someone from inside the chamber (Luffy) attempts to bust down the door and instead, shouts "FOOD!" Luffy is alive, to everyone's surprise, especially to Ivankov's as it had only been one day.

In New Kama Land, Level 5.5, Luffy has been devouring days-worth of food for the past half hour. Mr. 2 just stares in shock while Ivankov comments on Luffy's will to live. When Luffy eventually finishes eating, he emerges with an emaciated body except around his waist. He then digests the food, returning his body to its normal appearance, which shocks the newkama. They then cheer over his miraculous recovery from Magellan's poisons. Mr. 2 faints from extreme exhaustion, and Ivankov explains how Mr. 2 cheered Luffy on for hours, for which Luffy thanks Mr. 2.
Inazuma returns Luffy's hat and vest and advises that he rest a few more days, but Luffy still insists on going forth, down to Level 6, following his Vivre Card. Luffy asks Ivankov if he was going to break out of Impel Down, as Mr. 2 had gone down to Level 5 to break the former Queen of the Okamas out. Ivankov replies with that the situation of the world was too fierce and that one man, other than Whitebeard and the Seven Warlords of the Sea was to react. This man was a compatriot and his name is Monkey D. Dragon, at which Luffy nonchalantly replies that Dragon is his father. Ivankov begins mentioning that he will return to world affairs once Dragon mobilizes the Revolutionary Army, but then processes what Luffy said, which takes him completely aback. Ivankov finds it hard to believe that Dragon had a son. Luffy says that he was not supposed to tell anyone and was to keep it a secret. However, Ivankov seems to believe it and thinks to himself about the current situation, and how it all fits together: Luffy's status of a Supernova and his unbelievable will. When Ivankov asks Luffy where he comes from, Luffy replies with the East Blue. Ivankov then recalls a time he caught Dragon staring off toward the East Blue and confronted him about it, and Dragon ordered him to stay out of it.
Ivankov orders Inazuma to find out the departure time for Ace, saying that he will accompany Luffy to Level 6 of Impel Down. Ivankov quickly tells Luffy that he is one of Dragon's allies, a leader in the Revolutionary Army, that being the reason why he was imprisoned. Ivankov summons the ones willing to join them and Luffy shouts that he will save Ace but falls down. Knowing Luffy will not care about the aftereffects, Ivankov uses Emporio Tension Hormones, which give Luffy a day's worth of adrenaline.
On another level of the prison, Hannyabal is flicking through Mr. 2's, Mr. 3's, and Buggy's mugshots. All three were confirmed to have entered Level 5 and are assumed to have been eaten by the wolves.
Inside the lift to Level 6, Domino states that Magellan is late and tells him to control his diarrhea in future circumstances. Domino also reveals that Ace is to be transferred at 0900 at the Main Entrance, to the Marines.
At the main entrance, Vice Admiral Onigumo orders his subordinates not to let their guards down and reveals that the convoy transferring Ace is to have five Marine warships and five Vice Admirals.
Ivankov, Inazuma, and Luffy race through the wolves' den on Level 5 and smash through wolves. Prisoners of the level are in awe that the "demoned away" Ivankov has returned. In the monitor room, guards notice the three entering the passage between Levels 5 and 6 and identify all three. Hannyabal orders for traps to be activated and that Magellen and all Monitor Rooms to be alerted.
However, Magellan and Domino are already on Level 6, preparing to transport Ace.

Emporio Ivankov, Inazuma and Luffy make their way down the stairs into Level 6, breaking through the traps and defeating all the guards. As they enter Level 6, they discover that Ace's cell is empty, and Inazuma notes they were too late. Recognizing Luffy by his straw hat, Jinbe is astonished that not only had Hancock not lied about Luffy's entrance to Impel Down, but the pirate in question also made it down to the Great Prison's lowest and most restricted Level. Jinbe insists that Luffy hurry after Ace who had just recently gone up the lift. However, the prison staff are monitoring them, and as the trio look up the lift, a giant pad with spikes comes falling down, preventing them from going up the lift cables. A metal cage then surrounds the stairs, stopping them from exiting, and sleeping gas erupts, putting Luffy to sleep.
On Level 1, Magellan has to forcibly restrain Ace. Magellan says that they all heard the report and that resistance is useless. Magellan claims that Luffy, as a pirate, was doomed the minute he set foot into Impel Down. Ace silently despairs, as he had hoped that Boa had lied, and questions why Luffy came.
As the sleeping gas starts to fill the entire room of Level 6, Inazuma turns his hands into scissors, cuts the stone floor into strips, and then folds the strips over the staircase, blocking the gas coming through the metal cage. Ivankov explains to the prisoners about Inazuma's ability, the Choki Choki no Mi. Luffy wakes and complains that the stairs are closed off now, to which Inazuma replies that it was the only way to stop the gas. With no option of exiting, Ivankov knocks out the visual Den Den Mushi.
Since Ace's Vivre Card was no longer pointing directly upwards, indicating that he had been already handed over to the Marines, Ivankov states that they will help Luffy escape but leave Ace's rescue to Whitebeard. However, Luffy makes the decision of following Ace to the Marine Headquarters. Ivankov warns him that the upcoming war will have incredibly stronger fighters, like Whitebeard, the Admirals, the Vice Admirals, and the Seven Warlords of the Sea. Luffy states if he was to give up now, he would regret it and that he is going. Ivankov is reminded of what it like talking to Dragon.
Crocodile then offers to make a hole in the ceiling for them to escape if they were to set him free. Crocodile points out that it would be to both of their advantages as this would provide him an opportunity to escape and challenge Whitebeard, while allowing Luffy to continue going after Ace. Although reluctant to let Crocodile out, Ivankov reveals that he knew Crocodile from long ago and states that he knows a weakness of Crocodile's but will keep it secret as long as Crocodile does not betray them. Some of the other prisoners shout to be let out as well, but Ivankov shuts them up with a Death Wink.
Jinbe then begs to be let out and admits that he knew Ace since he joined the Whitebeard Pirates and that he wants to save Ace himself. Ivankov is astonished at another person of tremendous power joining Luffy's entourage. Luffy agrees and dismisses Inazuma's caution. More prisoners shout to be let out, but Ivankov shuts them up as well.
Ivankov states that they are to go immediately. Upon exiting their cells, Jinbe and Crocodile glare at each other. Jinbe warns Crocodile that he will not allow Crocodile to harm Whitebeard, to which Crocodile responds with a challenge to a fight to the death. Inazuma states that they now have two Warlords freshly recruited from Level 6 fighting for their side, which surprises Luffy who is unaware of Jinbe's status.

Guards wearing gas masks run towards Level 6 and believe that Luffy, Ivankov and Inazuma are still trapped in Level 6. However, to their immediate surprise, there is a gigantic stone spiral, going through the roof, up to Level 5. The hole is most probably Crocodile's work and the spiral being Inazuma's, due to his Choki Choki no Mi abilities.
A guard suggests to search the floor and they disperse, when one is stopped by a voice in a cage, calling the guards idiots. The guard recognizes the prisoner, the once head jailer of Impel Down, Shiryu. Shiryu tells the guards that they cannot do anything properly without him and that they have brought great shame upon the name of Impel Down. He reveals that Luffy freed Crocodile and Jinbe. Shiryu also states that if Magellan agrees, that he will help catch the five escapees.
A number of guards are running around, while one reports to Hannyabal, about the current situation with five escapees in Level 5. Hannyabal finally decides to face them himself, hoping to achieve the status of Chief Warden of Impel Down. He orders Sadi and Saldeath to move to Level 4.
On Level 5, Ivankov is surrounded by a number of New Kamas, all shivering, while he explains the plan. Ivankov states that the only way to escape would be aboard a Marine battleship and that they must release prisoners on their way, hoping to form allies. Iva shouts that only a handful would manage to escape out of Impel Down itself. The small group heads off, where Crocodile, Jinbe and Luffy already ran off. Mr. 2 Bon Kurei is spinning rapidly around, due to Iva's "Emporio: Tension Hormones".
Running up the staircase between Levels 5 and 4, Jinbe confirms Ace's execution time. He also predicts that Whitebeard would attack before the execution and that the battle could break out at any time, as Ace was already on the open sea. As they run, a door blocks the way, when Crocodile surges forward, saying that his right hand could turn it to sand thanks to his Suna Suna no Mi power. However, when he disintegrates the door, a number of jailers appear, holding guns and tridents or spears. The jailers confirm the three escapees and request for back up. A group shoots at Crocodile but they just go straight through, due to Crocodile's Logia Devil Fruit. Crocodile advances on three of the jailers, using a sand move that dehydrates the men at contact. A group prepares to capture Luffy, which Luffy pummels in an instant using his Gomu Gomu no Mi.
Jinbe uses Fish-Man Karate, using a punch. However, to the guard's surprise, nothing happens, until the punch sends shockwaves through the air, sending the jailers back. Despite being defeated, the jailers are determined to hold out, waiting for reinforcements.
On Level 2, Mr. 3 and Buggy are hiding behind a wax wall. They notice the Blue Gorillas moving out of Level 2. At that point, Buggy goes to a cage, where some prisoners are holding cage keys and one reveals that Mr. 3 had used his Doru Doru no Mi to manufacture the keys. Buggy tells the story where, after being chased by the wolves on Level 5, they had hided behind wax walls, all the way to Level 2.
In a monitor room, guards report of prisoners creeping around, opening cages. At this point the Level 2 Guards notice that nearly everyone was out of their cages and preparing to riot, once again. The guard pleads with Hannyabal to send back the Blue Gorillas, as they could not take the prisoners on their own.
On Level 4, Crocodile throws keys into a cage, asking Mr. 1 to join their cause, where Mr. 1 agrees. Hannyabal gets a report that Ivankov, Inazuma and Mr. 2 had shown up leading a small army, consisting of the prisoners that had been "demoned away". Iva and Mr. 2 are reunited with Luffy, where to Mr. 2's surprise, Mr. 1 was running along with them.
Ivankov uses "Face Growth Hormones", where his face grows unbelievably huge. As Hannyabal wonders what to do, the report continues, that they could not be stopped as the "demoned away" prisoners were barely controllable when they were normal prisoners. The chapter ends with the small army fighting its through the number of Impel Down jailers.

As Ace was being escorted to Marineford by Vice-Admiral Onigumo, he was informed that Luffy is leading a riot in Impel Down. Meanwhile, at Marineford, a panicked soldier informed Fleet-Admiral Sengoku of Blackbeard's mysterious disappearance, a shocking event considering the danger of Whitebeard's imminent attack. He also told him about a mysterious marine vessel with no deployment authorization that had arrived at Impel Down.
At the great prison, Impel Down, Blackbeard and his crew arrived and quickly defeated a group of jailers, claiming that they are on the same side. The rest of the facility was warned of Blackbeard's betrayal, who proceeded into the prison.
Due to these events combined with the riots, Vice-Warden Hannyabal was beginning to panic. He suggested that he and some jailers escape, but is contacted by Magellan, who reveals that he had stopped the riot on level two by sealing the entrances and exits. Magellan told Hannyabal to stall on level four until he arrived. Meanwhile, on level six, former chief Shiryu was being let out of his cell in order to help the situation. He was warned by Magellan that there will be no second chances, and was told to go after Blackbeard. As soon as the transmission was stopped, Shiryu slaughtered several guards with his newly reunited blade, apologizing for his actions.
On level four, Luffy and his group were currently fighting their way through the guards, releasing many prisoners as they go. Chief Guard Saldeath attacked with his Blugori, but Ivankov beat them back. They proceeded, but found the path blocked by Sadi and the three Jailer Beasts. Many of their forces were defeated, but Luffy, Crocodile, and Jinbe defeated all of them with a single blow.

The drawbridge is raised as an attempt to stop the Blackbeard Pirates from entering the Underwater Prison, Impel Down. Blackbeard is calmly walks while Van Augur and Jesus Burgess are fight jailers. Jailers are instructed to fire, stating that the Blackbeard Pirates are clearly traitors at this point in time. Suddenly, a man appears, saying that they are not traitors, that they were pirates and not to be trusted from the start. This supports Smoker's, Kizaru's, and Sengoku's view on the Seven Warlords of the Sea.
Shiryu appears as the man, studying the five intruders. Blackbeard simply stares at Shiryu, commenting that he looks like trouble. However, Blackbeard mistakes Shiryu for Magellan. Shiryu identifies Blackbeard as Marshall D. Teach, who simply laughs and asks who Shiryu himself is.
The number of Newkamas and freed prisoners head towards to the door of Level 3, where jailers are being heavily bombarded on by prisoners. Three Jailer Beasts are all bloodied up and unconscious. A number of prisoners are stopped by Sadi, who sends them flying, destroying a big portion of the bridge in the process. Monkey D. Luffy prepares to attack her but is sent literally flying by Emporio Ivankov, who then kicks at Sadi-chan.
Inazuma shows Luffy the stairs to Level 3. However, a mighty voice booms that Impel Down is the mighty fortress of Hell. This voice belongs to Hannyabal, who is spinning a staff with a sword on each end, defeating prisoners. At this point, the guards cheer on, saying that Hannyabal was someone they could truly rely on. Luffy faces up to Hannyabal who refuses to move out of Luffy's way. Hannyabal summons up a move called Hannya Circus, where the blades are set on fire and moves them in a very fast notion around his body.
Luffy states that he is here to free Ace where Hannyabal replies with that he is the Vice-Chief and that he could not be defeated. Luffy attacks Hannyabal with Gomu Gomu no Jet Gatling which looks like a clear defeat. Jailers rush Magellan out of the lift, saying that the perpetrators were on the Level 3 staircase. Magellan prepares to move to the location, while Hannyabal stands up, refusing to be beaten by Luffy, taking hit after hit. Hannyabal slumps to the ground and Luffy runs over him but is stopped by Hannyabal. Hannyabal says many words, saying that Luffy has no right to save his brother, and that pirates are the scum of the world. He goes on to say that many people are scared just by pirates being alive. Hannyabal describes Impel Down as the fortress of Hell, that if this place was to be destroyed, it would plummet the world in darkness, and that the ordinary people of the world would no longer be safe from pirates. Luffy refuses to give up, when the bazooka unit of Impel Down is sucked down into a familiar darkness hole. A foot appears in front of Hannyabal's face, with the owner saying there is no answer about justice and evil, no matter where you look in the world. Blackbeard then smashes Hannyabal into the ground, stomping on him.
Seeing the Blackbeard Pirates, Jinbe is furious. Blackbeard tells him not to point fists at people, that it was not his fault that Ace was being executed. A shocked Luffy looks at Blackbeard, remembering three occasions where Blackbeard was mentioned:
Luffy is angry, while Blackbeard talks about Ace's execution. It appears to be that Luffy will try to engage in a battle with Blackbeard.

The chapter begins with Blackbeard talking about how Luffy brought down Crocodile and freed up a Shichibukai placing. With an empty Shichibukai spot, Blackbeard decided to go in and take the place by bringing Luffy to the World Government, as he was the one that had defeated Crocodile.
A brief flashback takes us back to Banaro Island, where Blackbeard reveals to Ace that he planned to take down Luffy, when Ace also reveals that Luffy is his brother.
Blackbeard states that fate was on Luffy's side: ever since he had committed the most treacherous crime aboard the Whitebeard Pirates, Ace had been hunting him down. Then Ace revealed that Luffy was his brother after he found out about Blackbeard's plan. This ultimately lead to Ace not being able to leave Blackbeard alone. Blackbeard says that if he was left alone by Ace, Ace himself would be bringing shame down onto the Whitebeard Pirates AND leaving Luffy in risk of being captured.
Van Augur says that fate is no coincidence, when Doc Q says that Luffy is a VERY lucky "kid". Laffitte also states that as Blackbeard is now Shichibukai, they no longer desired to capture Luffy. Jesus Burgess comments on Ace's fighting skills, saying that he was a fighter.
Blackbeard remarks to Luffy that he should thank Ace at his grave(meaning Ace's), that Ace had decided to show up, saying if he had not, Luffy would be dead. Enraged, Luffy shouts at Blackbeard to try killing him and punches Blackbeard in Gear Second. Blackbeard is sent flying into a wall, breaking the wall on contact. Luffy states that he will not let Ace die and prepares to attack again, when Blackbeard uses Kurouzu.
To Mr. 2 Bon Kurei and Jinbe's surprise, Luffy is pulled into Blackbeard's hand and is crushed into the ground. Crocodile is also surprised when he saw Luffy's blood, as Luffy is made out of rubber.
Luffy and Blackbeard both stand up and prepare to attack, when Jinbe steps in and holds Luffy by the arm. He reminds Luffy of his priorities and states that even in Whitebeard's crew, Blackbeard was an unknown person and that whatever he did, Blackbeard was strong enough to take the down the likes of Ace. Jinbe asks Luffy not to waste his energy on Blackbeard.
Blackbeard himself simply comments that Luffy's Haki has improved and that Luffy was stronger than previously thought. However, Crocodile talks to Blackbeard for the first time, asking why he would cast away a title that he had earned so quickly. Blackbeard simply replies with that it was all part of a "plan" and that he had no obligation to tell Crocodile.
Crocodile states that he has no interest in Blackbeard's plan, when someone shouts that Magellan had arrived to the jailer's relief. Magellan's Hydra is seen poisoning prisoners effectively. Ivankov, who is still in his Eccentric Girl form, urges Luffy to keep moving forward, saying that if he is to be attacked by Magellan's poison once more, he would not be returning again.
Numbers of prisoners hurry towards the stairway when more prisoners are being attacked by another Jailer Beast: Minotaurus. This shocks Mr. 2, as they had defeated Minotaurus earlier.
Crocodile then reveals that the Jailer Beasts were all "awakened" Zoan Devil Fruit users, saying that their extreme physical endurance and recovery point were their advantages. Crocodile states that the other three would soon awake and that the Boss of Hell would be arriving soon.
Magellan is seen running towards the bridge, when a jailer tells him that Blackbeard was also there, to Magellan's surprise as he had sent Shiryu to deal with Blackbeard. Also, another jailer reports that the monitor room for the entire jail was going down and that they had lost communication with Marine Headquarters. The jailer is about to report that they have no way of communicating with the outside world, when Shiryu steps in and kills him, saying that he shouldn't be "tattling" to superiors.
Magellan orders someone to get down to the Monitor Room and comments on the day, saying how when one intruder slips in and everything goes wrong.
Mr. 3 and Buggy or the Jailbreak Gang, are seen shouting about going onwards to Level 1, with a number of prisoners following their lead.
Luffy states to Blackbeard that he will save Ace. Blackbeard simply says that he will not say that Luffy is doomed as "nothing is impossible". Blackbeard asks Luffy if Sky Island did exist, saying if it did, then so does the great treasure One Piece. Luffy walks past Blackbeard as the great pirates says that in a few hours, the world would be shaken to its core by the Blackbeard Pirates. The escaping group heads onwards to Level 3.
Sadi is seen tied up, saying that she was tied up by Iva. Magellan orders her to be released as he prepares to take the Blackbeard Pirates head on. Magellan identifies Blackbeard and the latter replies with "Damn right I am!". At this point, Magellan uses his Hydra move on the Blackbeard Pirates.
The Blackbeard Pirates sink to the ground in pain as the poison slowly kills them, including Doc Q's horse, Stronger. Magellan congratulates Hannyabal for holding out so long.
The Chief Warden of Impel Down shouts at Straw Hat Luffy, that he will never let him escape out of Hell. Alive.

The Jailbreak Gang is seen in Level 1 with their rebellion, heading towards the Main Entrance to Impel Down.
Luffy is seen running away with his Newkama army from Magellan's Hydra, who is determined not to let Luffy escape.
Sadi is seen moaning about her back, as it is revealed that Ivankov had bent Sadi-chan over his shoulders, causing the back pain. Sadi-chan stands up and orders the four Jailer Beasts to do so as well. The Jailer Beasts quickly take the lift to Level 1.
Jinbe explains to Luffy that Impel Down is surrounded by Marine warships and that if they were to capture a warship, they would arrive at Marineford in time for Ace's execution. With four and a half hours remaining until Ace's execution, the Newkama army head towards the next level.
In front of the stairway to Level 2, Ivankov, who is still in his Eccentric Girl form, is seen rushing prisoners and Newkamas into the stairway. After the last fighter is through, Magellan is seen in the distance, with his Hydra hovering above him. Ivankov shouts Inazuma's name, which the latter responds with running up the stairs to Level 2 while using his Choki Choki no Mi to slice the walls of the stairway.
On Level 2, the Newkamas are surprised at Inazuma, as Ivankov was still in Level 3. Inazuma urges them forward and prays for Iva's safety. Magellan himself is astounded at Ivankov, asking what he was planning to do. Ivankov states that if Magellan did not know what was going to happen next, Magellan was more of a fool than previously thought. Transforming back into his original form, Ivankov uses Death Wink on Magellan's Hydra, blasting a hole through it. Magellan states that time cannot be bought for Luffy, which Ivankov responds with saying that Magellan could not defeat him due to Ivankov's Newkama Kenpo.
Luffy notices that Magellan, Ivankov and Inazuma are missing. Mr. 2 Bon Kurei tells Luffy that the two Revolutionaries had stayed behind at Level 3. Luffy attempts to turn back, only to be stopped by Mr. 2, saying that the "Miracle Worker" must be trusted.
Crocodile notices that the entire floor is abandoned. Jinbe also notices, questioning if someone else had released all the prisoners.
Magellan, Chief Warden of Impel Down vs. Emporio Ivankov
Ivankov is seen kneeling on the ground screaming about his face, as it is seen on fire. Magellan simply looks on. However, Ivankov stands back up, with a normal face, tossing a mask of "heavy make-up" away. Magellan states that Iva was boring him. Ivankov responds with using Newkama Kenpo. He uses a move called Dream-Strike-Condemn-Reverse-Fist, which Magellan prepares to retaliate.
In front of the sliced stairways, Inazuma waits for Ivankov with his arms as scissors due to his Choki Choki no Mi devil fruit. As the rubble shifts, Inazuma's face lightens up, then darkens as Magellan emerges out of the rubble by using Venom Road. A shocked Inazuma prepares to battle, Magellan also does but has a stream of blood running down his face, presumably from Ivankov. Ivankov, however, is lying on the ground, soaked in poison. Inazuma cuts more floor out of the ground and uses them as a defensive stance as Magellan runs forward.
Buggy is crying as the Jailer Beasts are seen fighting prisoners in front of the gateway to the Main Entrance. The rebellion turns back, chased by the Jailer Beasts. Buggy runs into a figure, telling the figure to look where he goes. Crocodile is revealed as the figure, telling a shocked Mr. 3 and Buggy to move it. Mr. 3, thinking why Crocodile is out of cell, is called a "useless piece of trash" by Crocodile.
A prisoner runs up and tells Buggy that the Jailer Beasts had been defeated. Truth behold, Luffy and Jinbe are seen standing in front of the unconscious Jailer Beasts once again. Another prisoner reports to Buggy that a huge army of prisoners and "perverts" are surging up from Level 2.
Mr. 2 jumps in and kicks Buggy for abandoning them in Level 5. The goalers report that the rebellions had joined together and questioning Magellan's presence. At the exact time, Magellan uses Hydra, forcing all the prisoners to keep running. Luffy asks about Ivankov and Inazuma and the two Revolutionaries are seen both lying in a pool of poison. Mr. 2 stops Luffy from attacking Magellan and urges him to keep moving forward.
Jinbe overhears Magellan talking to a Den Den Mushi about the Marine warships, which begins to concern Jinbe. The Fish-Man Shichibukai tells Luffy that they must get to the Main Entrance without delay, stating that there were bigger problems than Magellan. The Hydra prepares to strike but is stopped by Mr. 3's Candle Wall. This surprises both Magellan, Luffy and Mr. 3, who says that Luffy's optimism was infectious, if his guard was to drop, Mr. 3 would consider Luffy as a friend. He tells Luffy that he could only hold Magellan off for a while and to go on. Mr. 3 states that if he was to stay in Luffy's debt, he would be damned.

Mr. 3 tells the prisoners and others to stop hanging about and to run, as he is using his Doru Doru no Mi to make a Candle Wall against Magellan's Hydra. As Mr. 3 explains his ability to Magellan, Crocodile says that he is still surprised the way certain Devil Fruits react to each other. The prisoners cheer Mr. 3 on as does Luffy, saying that he forgot that Mr. 3 had the Doru Doru ability. Mr. 3 tells them to hurry, stating that he wants to get out as soon as possible as well. Luffy turns to Jinbe and tells him to go get a battleship, saying that he could hold off Magellan for a bit. Jinbe reluctantly leaves, telling Luffy to be careful.
As Luffy says to Mr. 3 to get ready to fight, Mr. 3 instantly disagrees, saying that the only thing he can do against Magellan was to defend. A number of prisoners also decide to stay and help Luffy and Mr. 3.
Luffy is then seen with wax armor, crying because of the armour's coolness. Magellan then takes this chance and produces another Hydra and attacks, only to be stopped by another Candle Wall. Luffy jumps out of the way and uses Gomu Gomu no Champion Rifle on Magellan, hitting him directly. As Magellan shudders, Luffy celebrates as he can touch Magellan without getting poisoned. The prisoners that stayed behind had found cannons and Mr. 3 had used his power to create a wall with cannon barrels sticking out for cover. They fire upon Magellan who is then set on fire.
Mr. 2 Bon Kurei is seen standing on a jailer's head, saying that there was no one to stop them now. However, Mr. 1 tells him that Mr. 2 is an amateur for letting down his guard so easily. As Mr. 2 asks why, Mr. 1 states that there were 10 battleships outside, with 800 Marines stationed on each one. Even if they were to take over one, they would be taking the other 9 at the same time. As the rebellion approach the doors to the outside world, everyone is shouting for freedom and that if they were free, it would be heaven whilst if they were caught, it would be Hell.
As they enter the outside world, there are no ships to be seen, only blue seas.
Every prisoner is surprised and horrified at the fact that they would end up in Impel Down after all. Crocodile says that the enemy wasn't as stupid as previously thought with Sea Kings in the Calm Belt.
Jinbe however points out that the Marine warships were still visible in the mist. A prisoner complains that they were too far away to reach, at which Jinbe tells them not to worry.
Jinbe hauls one of the doors of the gates to Impel Down, throwing in the sea. The prisoners cheer on Jinbe as Buggy, Mr. 1 and Crocodile jump onto the makeshift boat. A prisoner says that seeing a Warlord of the Sea raises their hopes of survival. Even though Buggy has a number of loyal supporters, he thinks to himself that he'd rather be safe with two Warlords of the Sea than be close to be Magellan. A cannon ball explodes in the water, right next to the door-boat.
As the Marines identify the Knight of the Sea, they begin to target him. To Buggy's surprise, Jinbe reveals he will be shooting the door-boat onto a Marine warship. Buggy begins to panic, believing that Jinbe had abandoned them. Crocodile tells him to shut up and be calm.
Underwater, Jinbe uses Fish-Man Ju-Jitsu: Mizu-Gokoro which appears to be a move that gives Jinbe to hold water and create a current using it. Jinbe uses the current to shoot the door-boat over in an arch, landing on a Marine warship. As Mr. 1 and Crocodile land on their two feet, Buggy falls down face first.
The Marines quickly surround the three intruders, stating that since they were all fruit users, if they were in the sea, they would be powerless. Mr. 1 and Crocodile give the Marines menacing glares. As the Marines prepare to fire upon them, Jinbe uses Fish-Man Karate: Spear Wave, which goes straight through one side of the ship and out the other in a diagonal. Jinbe apologizes for being careless and ends the chapter.

Magellan closes on the small force holding out against him, stating that his poison was called kinjite. Luffy attempts to fight Magellan even more, but the poison crawls up Luffy's wax leg armor, at which Mr. 3 absorb the wax before the poison hit Luffy. Magellan then creates a gigantic skull being made out of poison.
Mr. 3 and Luffy flee as the skull being continues to approach, unable to be stopped.
Mr. 2 wonders about the safety of Luffy and the others and asks for progress on capturing a battleship. Someone replies with that they could hear cannons firing but had no idea what happens beyond the mist. Mr. 2 grows worrisome as there is a distance between the warships and Impel Down and that they would not be able to hold off Magellan for so long.
Marines continue to attempt to throw Crocodile and Mr. 1 into the water but can not succeed. The two men take down the Marines without difficulties. Other warships begin to fire upon the warship being captured but is stopped by Jinbe's water spouts, that cascades onto the decks and dampens all gunpowder.
Luffy and Mr. 3 continue to flee, followed by Magellan. Suddenly something huge comes out of the ground: it's Ivankov with a gigantic face and he's bringing Inazuma with him.
Jinbe makes contact with Luffy, stating the distance between them and Impel Down. Jinbe tells Luffy to jump into the water as soon as he reaches it, which angers many people as they are in the Calm Belt. Mr. 3 states that Jinbe could not be trusted as he is the puppet of the government. However, Luffy says that he could trust Jinbe as he is a friend of Ace's.
As Magellan and his Venom Demon surges forward, Luffy and Mr. 3 throw an ultimate attack creating a gigantic wax wall with spikes on one side and pushing it into the Venom Demon, stopping it momentarily. However the poison begins to eat through the wall. Luffy urges Iva to wake up and tells everyone to grab onto the Iva's face. Iva uses his hell wink and flies in to the ocean, holding everyone on him.
Near the warships, Marines begin to notice that creatures had started to emerge from the oceans. Iva lands on something, which is revealed to be a school of Whale Sharks, called by Jinbe. Jinbe asks the whale sharks to bring Luffy and companions to the warship. Luffy comments on Jinbe, saying that he was awesome.

The escaped prisoners celebrate as they made it onto a warship safely. They all are told off by Jinbe however for celebrating too early. The escapees all show their gratitude to the whale sharks that brought them to the warship, while Emporio Ivankov orders people to find medication to heal Inazuma.
A prisoner shouts out that he would never be setting foot in Hell again while another states that he would be turning over a new leaf and returning to his family.
Magellan is astounded to the fact that the escaped prisoners could've made it to that point. He orders another ship to come and pick him up, saying that he would personally pursue/eliminate them, saying they were trapped like rats.
A Marine reports to a Rear Admiral that the damage done by Jinbe to the cannons had been fully repaired. At the moment, the order to fire is given. A cannonball hits the prisoner's warship, where Jinbe states that even though anyone Vice Admiral or higher was at Marineford, anyone board a battleship was a formidable enemy.
The Rear Admiral shouts that the Gates of Justice would never open for pirates.
This is when the prisoners, including Luffy, Buggy, and Mr. 3, realize that the Gates of Justice will not open. However, Jinbe simply just orders to keep on going, which causes Buggy to go into an uproar. Luffy orders the men to protect the battleship. Crocodile suggests they use the cannons on the warship. Buggy steals this idea and orders his loyal followers to man the guns. Crocodile and Luffy both use their Devil Fruit powers to fend off cannonballs. The Rear Admiral ponders why they (the prisoners) were still heading for the Gates of Justice, when they could only be opened from Impel Down. He gives another order to shoot at the warship but is surprised at something.
The Gates of Justice are opening. The Marines are astounded, the prisoners are happy, and everyone is amazed at the opening of the Gates. Even though Magellan's warship had arrived, he stares on, commenting that it was impossible.
A jailer asks if they should be opening the Gates to Magellan. The Chief Warden of Impel Down is seen in the Generator Room, giving the order for the Gates to open, then shut as soon as the prisoner's warship had sailed through. The jailer obeys the orders.
All the Marines still fire, still astounded that this was Magellan's orders. A Marine states that this could not have been Magellan's doing as he had been standing at the dock, preparing to board a Marine Warship.
Back at Impel Down, Magellan's lower half is seen running down a hallway, when he bursts into the Generator Room, to see the jailers and a mirror image of himself.
Jinbe reveals to Luffy that Mr. 2 had left himself behind to open the Gates of Justice. Mr. 2 had told Jinbe not to worry about him (Mr. 2) and that only to tell Luffy when communications cut out. However, Jinbe gives Luffy a Baby Den Den Mushi.
Magellan and the other jailers are shocked to find Mr. 2 standing there, doing his traditional okama dance. Luffy contacts Mr. 2 and goes on about that the duo were supposed to break out of Impel Down together. Luffy pleads with Mr. 2 to answer and soon, so does every other person aboard the warship, as they had just discovered Mr. 2's inevitable fate. They all call out his name, when Luffy tells him that he had to go, as the Gates of Justice would be soon closing. Luffy shouts out his gratitude to Mr. 2. At this point, Mr. 2 responds, saying that Luffy better save his brother, that he could do it and the Gates of Justice closes, shutting them off.

All the escapees are seen crying for their friend as Mr. 2 prepares to fight Magellan. It is then revealed that there are 4 hours remaining till the execution of Ace and that 241 people had escaped from Impel Down, bringing the ultimate disgrace upon Impel Down.

In Impel Down, Blackbeard thanks Shiryu for saving his crew's lives by giving them the antidote to Magellan's poison and suggests that he join the Blackbeard Pirates. Shiryu gladly accepts.
Meanwhile on the Tarai Current, Ivankov tells everyone to leave Inazuma to rest until he recovers from the poison on his own. While a fight erupts between Buggy and Luffy over Mr. 2 fate, Crocodile who confuses that why brutal Fish-man have the ability to talk to sea creatures, so he asks Jinbe this question, and Jinbe doesn't deny that Fish-man is a brutal race.
Jinbe later notices that Luffy jumps onto the deck where Crocodile and him are, so he thanks Luffy for giving him another chance to save Ace. He also wants to thank and apologise about Arlong, but he finally gives up because current target is more important. Jinbe then introduces himself properly to Luffy, telling him of his possibly revoked Shichibukai status and that he intended to go all out at Marine Headquarters to honor Mr. 2's wish.
This shocks both Luffy and Buggy, Luffy who did not know that Jinbe was a Shichibukai, Buggy who is surprised that they were heading directly towards Marine Headquarters. Crocodile tells Buggy that the moment they entered the Gates of Justice, they could only head towards Marine Headquarters, on the Tarai Current and that the purpose of breaking out was interest in the Whitebeard war.
While the pirates are arguing, a Den Den Mushi rings and Luffy answers. It is a call from the Marine who states that this was a report from an Impel Down escort fleet and that they had established two primary masterminds behind the jailbreak: Luffy and Buggy. The Marine states that they thought Buggy was an ordinary pirate but when closely investigated, they discovered he was formerly on Gol D. Roger's pirate ship. This surprises everyone, even Buggy, as they found out his past. The Marine also reveals that they did not intend to open the Gates of Justice for them, so that they could not reach Marine Headquarters and they could not break away from the Tarai Current.
All the prisoners congratulate Buggy about his "legendary" status. Buggy tries to tell them that he was only an apprentice but is bombarded with cheers. Buggy suddenly gets a brainwave, thinking that this could be the moment his reputation could sky rocket, even planning to take Whitebeard's head. He finally changes his mind and decides to go to Marine Headquarters too. All the prisoners agree saying that they would follow him anywhere.
In the Marine Headquarters, At noon, with three hours to go, Ace is dispatched to the gallows, forced to climb a very long staircase. As he climbs, he has a flashback where he and Luffy made a promise not to have a life without regrets. A guard opens the doors to the gallows. Ace soon steps out to meet his fate.

A group of people at the local market discuss the upcoming Seven Warlords of the Sea-Whitebeard war, claiming that Whitebeard is old and not really big news anymore.
A number of farmers also talk about the war, saying that Whitebeard was sure to lose against the Marine Headquarters. However, a farmer comments that it would be best for everyone if Whitebeard did not show up and that the execution went as planned.
A man is rejected by a bar, with the bartender saying that he would open shop tomorrow, if there was still a world by tomorrow.
A man in a bar orders another drink and tells fellow punters not to underestimate Whitebeard, saying that he was as almighty as ever. He recounts a time when Whitebeard was in the bar and made a lot of people give up their lives, just by sitting there doing nothing.
A woman notices that even her children knew of the situation as they were playing with a skipping rope and singing "Old man Whitebeard, scarier than demons!". She looks up and says "What has this world come to?"
At Marineford, where most families of Marines lived, the place is empty as everyone had been evacuated to Sabaody Archipelago.
On the archipelago, the families watch on giant monitors that look to Marineford, monitoring the situation. Cameramen and reporters are also present, ready to deliver the news as soon as possible. Soon, a man shouts out that Ace had appeared.
Back at Marineford, Ace, flanked by two executioners, kneels down, ready for his fate which is to arrive in three hours. Also, Marine patrol ships head out to find Whitebeard, never to be seen again.
John Giant is seen telling the Marines not to let their guards down. With 50 Marine warships surrounding the crescent shaped island, the walls lined with cannons and 100,000 elite Marine troops, the Marines lie in wait for Whitebeard. Also on the walls are 5 of the Seven Warlords of the Sea, also waiting for Whitebeard.
At the execution platform, in front of Ace sit the three admirals of the Marines, Kizaru, Aokiji and Akainu.
The prisoners' ship reach the Gates of Justice. Luffy and Jinbe begin to plan on how to get through them. Meanwhile, Buggy is seen still rallying the prisoners.
Sengoku tells Garp that he was "going to tell everything". Garp replies with to do whatever he wanted. Sengoku stands next to Ace, telling the executioners to move aside.
Sengoku stands up in front of the Marines and tells them that there was something crucial, the real reason of Ace's execution. Sengoku asks Ace who his father was. Ace replies with Whitebeard, saying that he was the only father that he ever had. Sengoku then goes on to say that for years, the Marines had been looking for a child, investigating every new born, every baby going to be born, mothers who were pregnant and tiny leads from Cipher Pol but had come up with nothing. However, Ace and his mother had escaped this investigation: Ace's mother, Portgas D. Rouge had gone to an island in the South Blue and kept him in her womb for 20 months. This resulted in her dying when Ace was born.
Sengoku then states that a year and three months after the father's death, a child with "the most accursed blood" had been born [Ace]. He tells Ace that he shouldn't claim he wasn't aware.
Sengoku then reveals the most shocking truth: Ace's father was none other than the late Pirate King, Gol D. Roger. Garp has a short flashback of Roger telling him to look after the unborn child.

Everyone in the world is shocked at the new revelation of Ace being the former Pirate King's son. Reporters scramble to get in contact with their office, while one simply drops his notebook and is shocked at the prospect that Gol D. Roger's bloodline had continued.
All Marines are dumbfounded at the new information. Smoker appears to be shocked, Mihawk worried and Hancock ponders the fact that Luffy and Ace weren't really brothers. Ace keeps his head down while the three admirals have no expression. Moria claims that Ace was lucky as everyone associated with Roger had been prosecuted and that it was a miracle that he was able to leave behind a son, while Doflamingo just laughs. Koby and Helmeppo quietly whisper about Ace and Luffy and the two's fathers. Garp just looks out and enters a flashback.
In a jail cell, Gol D. Roger tells a younger version of Garp that he was about to have a child and that he would not be able to live long enough to see him. Garp demands to know why Roger was telling him, as he was a Marine and that any woman associated with the Pirate King would get capital punishment. Roger nods and states that was the reason why he was telling him. He also states that Ace's mother would be killed but asks Garp to protect the unborn child. He tells Garp to protect him, with a smile, resembling Luffy. Garp says that Roger does not tell him what to do and says that he would protect him.
On the island of Baterilla, Marines scour the island, looking for any pregnant women. One orders to kill any suspicious, stating that Roger's age was over and that his bloodline was to come to an end. Rouge is seen walking away from the Marines.
Later, Garp is seen present in a room with Rouge on a bed, holding a baby. She states that if the baby was a girl, it would be named Anne, while if it turned out to be male, Ace. So the baby was named Gol D. Ace. Garp looks on worried as doctors try to revive Rouge.
Garp is seen taking a younger Luffy into a forest, where he states that this was his new home. Waiting for him is a younger version of Ace.
More recently, in Impel Down, Garp remembers what Ace had said, saying that he had owed his mother a great debt while he did not care of his other blood/heritage, that Whitebeard was his only father.
Sengoku states that two years ago, Ace had taken up "Portgas D" as his surname and conquered the sea with amazing strength and speed as the captain of the Spade Pirates. Sengoku then reveals that that was when they noticed that Roger's bloodline had not ended. He goes on to say that Whitebeard had noticed the same fact as well and states that Whitebeard had taken Ace on to make the young commander the next Pirate King. Ace shouts, stating that his goal was to make Whitebeard the Pirate King, not himself. Sengoku claims that was just a delusion and that the Marines had been careless earlier on. Sengoku states that if they had just left Ace alone, Ace would be standing the summit of a new Pirate Age and that his execution held a greater meaning. A Marine runs up, reporting that the Gates of Justice had been opened and they could not get in contact with the power room.
Jinbe and Luffy look up in amazement as the Gates of Justice open up by themselves. Buggy is then seen standing in front of the Gates with his hands stretched, closing his eyes. The prisoners mistake this for the "next Messiah" and all begin to worship Buggy. Mr. 3 shouts at them for being crazy.
Another Marine reports that the enemy had arrived, which shocks Sengoku as they had arrived so fast. The ships are then revealed to be a gigantic fleet of Pirate ships, all showing different symbols/flags. The Marines confirm some Pirate captains such as "Bohemian Knight" Doma, "Thunder Lord" McGuy, the Decalvan Brothers, the "Great Whirlpool Spider" Squard: all pirates and their captains achieving infamy in the New World. The fleet comes to a total of 43, all subordinate crews of Whitebeard, here to save Ace. Ace looks on, surprised that they had all come.
Doflamingo shouts, calling Whitebeard forth as he was getting extremely excited.
Suddenly, the admirals pick up something. Sengoku ponders a possible location, while Tsuru muses that they had chosen a bad formation and Garp states that Whitebeard had chosen quite a location. A shadow is seen in the water and it is soon revealed that Whitebeard had coated his ships and gone underwater. Soon the Moby Dick surfaces along with three other ships. Marines confirm that all commanders of Whitebeard's pirates were present, while Whitebeard himself walks on the whale masthead of his ship, happy that his son Ace was not harmed.

In the Tarai Current, Ivankov is seen wondering if Dragon and his Revolutionary army would turn up. Luffy asks why and Ivankov states that Dragon would not stand his son being executed. Luffy simply reveals that he knows about the link between Roger and Ace. This surprises the whole ship, when Luffy tells them not to tell anyone as it was a secret.
At Marineford, Sengoku is in awe at the sudden arrival of the Whitebeard Pirates. What appears to be the Division Commanders of the Whitebeard Pirates stand around, simply watching. Whitebeard looks up and punches the air, "cracking" it with the use of his Devil Fruit, the Gura Gura no Mi. This causes a gigantic tremor, rippling through the Marine ranks. Two massive explosions erupt but no one is harmed however it causes alarm through the ranks of the Marines.
Back at the Tarai Current, Luffy states that he could not see the Marines or the Whitebeard Pirates yet because of the fog. Meanwhile, Ace enters a series of flashbacks.
A younger version of Ace told Luffy that he would leave now to become a pirate. Luffy told him that he would set out in three years and be stronger by that time. However, Garp was angry that Ace had decided to become a pirate rather than be a Marine. Soon, Ace is known all around the world as the infamous and strong captain of the Spade Pirates. Sengoku was seen asking about this new rookie, while Whitebeard commented on the invitation to Ace as a Warlord of the Sea and his rejection.
Some time afterward, Ace found Shanks. He asked if Ace wanted to greet him, grabbing his sword and threatening him. However, unfazed by the threat, Ace states that he was the brother of Luffy, saying that Luffy bragged about Shanks and he had decided to come see the real thing. Shanks became overjoyed, saying that this was a reason to celebrate.
Some time later, Jinbe stood in Ace's way, stating that even though he was not part of the Whitebeard Pirate, he would not let a "young reckless boy" have a go at the "old man", referring to Whitebeard. The Spade Pirates recognized Jinbe and his Warlord status, warning Ace. However, Ace and Jinbe go head to head. Thus, they battled for 5 days straight with no clear victor. At this point, Whitebeard himself appears to the Spade Pirates, stating that the challenger should stand forth, that this was the chance to take his head. Whitebeard goes alone, defeating most of the Spade Pirates. Ace stands back up, calling up a wall of fire using his Devil Fruit. Ace tells his crew to run and that he would face Whitebeard alone. Whitebeard calls Ace a "cheeky little brat" and attacks Ace. After what appears to be a long hard battle, Whitebeard comments about Ace, saying that it would be a pity if he was to die there. He states that if Ace still wanted to cause havoc on the seas, Ace should bear the symbol of Whitebeard and become his "son".
When Ace awakes after his defeat to Whitebeard, Thatch greets Ace, telling him of his position as the 4th Division Commander of the Whitebeard Pirates. Thatch tells Ace about what happened after he passed out, saying that the Spade Pirates had come to get Ace, only to be beaten up by Thatch and his division. However, they were aboard this ship. Ace asks how Thatch could be so comfortable without him being in handcuffs or anyone guarding him as a prisoner. And soon, Ace's attempts to kill Whitebeard begin. Ace begins with trying to kill Whitebeard in his sleep. Whitebeard wakes up at the last second and sends Ace flying, soon falling back asleep. Ace tries again, this time using an ax. Whitebeard fends off this attack, throwing Ace into the sea. Ace tries day after day, soon passing the 100 mark. One day, Marco passes Ace a bowl of soup. Ace asks Marco why everyone called Whitebeard "Pops". Marco replies with that Whitebeard called them his "sons", that while they were hated around the world, words like those made them happy. Marco presents Ace with a decision, if he would take Whitebeard's name on his back.
Some time after the talk with Marco, the Whitebeard Pirates cheer as Ace celebrates another victory by taking down Doma and his crew. He later has the chance to take up the position of 2nd Division Commander. Ace asks around and pretty much everyone gives their consent, even a younger version of Blackbeard, still a Whitebeard Pirate. While Ace's reputation grows, Ace reveals his father to Whitebeard. The old man laughs, saying that Ace and Roger have different personalities. Ace asks if he was to be kicked out but Whitebeard refuses, saying that everyone was a "child of the sea".
After Blackbeard murdered Thatch, some men are seen holding Ace back, saying that Whitebeard had made an exception. Ace, outraged, shouts about Blackbeard, stating he was a traitor, that he had to go after him as he had committed the ultimate crime and he was under his division. Marco and Jozu attempt to stop him, but Ace runs.
Back to the present at Marineford, Ace shouts at the Whitebeard Pirates, that he should have been left for dead as he had refused to listen and set out. Whitebeard states that he had told Ace to go, only to be rebutted by Ace, saying that Whitebeard and the others had said not to go. However, Whitebeard calls up Marco and asks if he had told Ace to go. Marco answers yes, saying that Whitebeard told Ace to go. Everyone cheers, saying that they would save the 2nd Division Commander. The Marine admirals prepare themselves, all commenting about the coming war. Suddenly everything rumbles, causing alarm through Marines, even to some of the Warlords of the Sea. It is then revealed that Whitebeard was a "Quakeman", having eaten the Gura Gura no Mi. Sengoku tells everyone to fight, saying that the Marines might be the ones that could face the end, not the Whitebeard Pirates. The two sides begin to fight, with two tsunamis on either side of Marineford as the war begins.

The Marines are in panic as two tsunamis advance towards them. Doflamingo laughs at the "Legendary Pirate", meaning Whitebeard, while the great pirate himself also laughs. Soon, Aokiji evaporates out of his chair and uses Ice Age on the two tsunamis, freezing them entirely. Whitebeard calls Aokiji a "little rascal", while the Marines are relieved. Aokiji sends Ice Spears towards Whitebeard, who stops them and snaps Aokiji in half, cracking the air to do this. Aokiji crumbles into ice, but reforms near the water and freezes the bay entirely, creating an icy battlefield. The Whitebeard Pirates look out, observing the new foothold but the fact that they no longer could move. The Marines fire upon the ships, when Whitebeard's allies jump out, getting ready to fight.
The vice admirals ready for battle.The vice admirals have Marine Headquarters jump down and line up, all holding swords. The opposition comment on their line up, stating that this rarely happened and looked like a Buster Call. Tsuru is warned to stay back, but states that even if she was to retreat to the end of the Seas, she would never be safe.
Mihawk pulls out his legendary sword and tells Doflamingo that he was going to test the strength between a certain man and him. Mihawk sends a gigantic flying strike towards Whitebeard but is suddenly stopped by Jozu, or better known as Third Division Commander, "Diamond" Jozu. Next, Kizaru prepares to take his strike, sending a shower of light bullets towards Whitebeard. The old pirate comments that the light was bright and as the shower comes, someone jumps up into the fray, stopping the shower. The Marines look up and see Marco, the First Division Commander in blue flames. Marco states that he could not take the king on your first turn, possibly referring to chess, while Kizaru states that the Whitebeard Pirates are frightening people.

The Marines are still shocked that Marco took an attack from Kizaru and was still standing. They all talk about the rumors of Marco's ability. Kizaru comments on the "Mythical Beast" Zoan, saying it was scarier than a Logia as Marco takes on the form of a phoenix. Marco hurtles towards Kizaru in his Zoan form and turns into the common hybrid form for a Zoan, half animal and human. He kicks Kizaru's elbow and is sent crashing to the ground. Kizaru seems unharmed and orders the Giant Squad to prepare for air assaults. The group of Marine giants prepare themselves, heading towards the Whitebeard Pirates.
The pirates of Whitebeard prepare themselves for the "big boys", telling everyone to stand back. Jozu appears to lift something and turns out to be a gigantic piece of an iceberg, big enough to easily cover the Giant Squad of the Marines. Akainu looks up, saying that there were all of them out there, yet they could not protect the place. Akainu stands up and his arm turns into what appears to be black smoke but is later revealed to be a magma rock fist. Akainu aims the fist at the iceberg and evaporates the entire iceberg and also sends magma projectiles towards the Whitebeard Pirates.
Whitebeard still stands on the whale head of his ship, watching as the projectiles destroy one of his ships. Whitebeard mutters, saying that Akainu thought he was "cool" with his fire. Whitebeard catches a flaming rock from Akainu, catching it on his weapon. He tells Akainu to go light a birthday cake, which the Marine admiral retorts that he would like to light Whitebeard's funeral pyre. Battle rages throughout the bay: two Whitebeard Pirates are seen taking on a Marine Giant while a man holding a flaming katana attacks a group of Marines. During this fighting, a huge Giant appears, similar to Oars. It is then revealed that this is in fact Oars' descendant, "Little Oars Jr."
Gecko Moria crackles, surprised that Oars' descendant was under Whitebeard's command and that he wanted to claim his corpse. Donquixote Doflamingo also laughs, saying that things have just turned interesting.

The Giant Squad of the Marines heads forward, to tackle the monstrous Little Oars Jr.; two giants talk to each other, saying that it is the first time they are actually looking up at someone. Marines try to tackle Oars Jr. full on, with a terrified Ace watching. Sengoku comments that Oars Jr. is quite the ally. However, Ace shouts at Oars Jr., stating that due to his size, he would be an unfortunate target. Oars Jr. keeps going, determined to save Ace.
The behemoth of Oars Jr. picks up a Marine warship by the mast and uses it as a hammer, creating a hole in the Marine defense.
A Marine looks on, saying that the situation is bad and orders a retreat so that the pirates would not get to the execution platform. A vice admiral falls to the despair of the Marines. Whitebeard states that Oars Jr. is a fool and that he has no idea what to do with him. He goes on to say that there is a difference between heroism and suicide. Oars Jr. shouts at his Captain, saying that all he wants is to save Ace. Whitebeard agrees, ordering his men to back up the giant. Oars Jr. keeps fighting, scaring the living daylights out of the Marines.
Boa Hancock looks on and decides to act, using her Mero Mero no Mi by blowing a heart shaped balloon and using a move called Slave Arrow. A Whitebeard pirate recognizes the Pirate Empress but is slowly turned to stone. She uses another move, Perfume Femur, attacking Whitebeard Pirates and Marines alike. A Marine stands up, questioning her act. To his surprise, Hancock replies that with pirates and Marines, all men are the same, except for one (Luffy).
Kuma steps forth, using Ursus Shock against Little Oars Jr., destroying walls and injuring the giant. Nevertheless, Oars Jr. stands, all bloodied, noticing that his conical hat has dropped. Ace shouts at him to stop, saying that he would not make it. However, Oars Jr. does not listen, instead, entering a flashback.
Ace is seen talking to Oars Jr., saying that he learnt to make a hat in the land of Wano. Ace goes on, saying that he thought that it must've been really hot in the sky, so he made the hat. Oars Jr. really enjoys the hat. People also look up, saying that Ace had tried twice making the hat properly, saying that it was only expected of a Fire man trying to make a straw hat.
Oars Jr. is sitting outside, happy that he wasn't getting wet on his head with his new conical hat on his head. In another scene, it is the same, except that it was snowing.
The Marines take fire upon Oars Jr. The massive being takes fire from directions but states that he could at least take down one Shichibukai. He attacks the unsuspected Doflamingo. However, the Shichibukai jumps over Oars Jr. and chops off the giant's leg, laughing and shouting that the fight was a riot.
Ace looks on, bewildered as Oars Jr. rests down on his stump of a leg, noticing that only a little more was required to reach Ace, as he and the Whitebeard Pirates had now entered the plaza. As he reaches out to grab his dear friend, Moria acts, enraged that Doflamingo had harmed Oars Jr, intending to use his corpse. He uses his Kage Kage no Mi Devil Fruit power and forms a shadow spear, Tsuno-Tokage, impaling Oars Jr. through the stomach. The behemoth of a giant falls in front of Ace, falling to the ground, a hand a couple of feet away from the Second Division Commander.

Kuma and Mihawk look on as Oars Jr. falls, while Moria states that was how to kill in true fashion and Hancock comments that huge people lived in the ocean. Ace shouts the giant's name, when Oars Jr. falls back, defeated. Doflamingo erupts in laughter, causing a Whitebeard Pirate to question the laughter.
Whitebeard also sees Oars Jr. fall, when a Marine from the Giant Squad attempts to kill Whitebeard, saying that he should never mourn in a war. However, Whitebeard uses his Gura Gura no Mi Devil Fruit power, smashing the Giant's helmet against the Moby Dick helm, breaking the head gear and knocking Vice Admiral Lonz out. Whitebeard orders his men to surge forward through the gap created by Oars Jr.
Far away, a man attempts to catch his bolting animals but gives up, saying that there was a lot of earthquakes.
Doflamingo responds to the Whitebeard Pirate, 13th Division Commander 'Water Buffalo' Atmos, saying that being in the core of the Era "cracked" him up. Doflamingo uses his mysterious Devil Fruit power on Atmos who suddenly warns his comrades to stay back. However, Atmos is late with his warning and forced to fight his own crewmates.
Koby witnesses the horror around him and runs for his life with Helmeppo, saying that these people were too strong for him. However, to the two Marine's surprise, Akainu is around the corner, ordering a Marine to take his post. The Marine responds, saying that he had to leave to be with his family. Akainu shows no mercy, and use his devil fruit ability against the Marine. After this, Akainu gets a call, saying that preparations for a plan was complete.
Atmos continues to be under the Shichibukai's control. The Shichibukai himself shouts that terms for things that changed over time. People who had not seen war had different meanings for "Marine" or "Pirate". Doflamingo states that the ground was neutral and whoever was at the top, would define Justice, thus shouting, Justice would prevail.
Whitebeard Pirates charge forward, suddenly aided by an ice-breaker. This belongs to 'Ice Witch' Whitey Bay, who plows through the ice. A Marine runs up to Sengoku, stating that the Whitebeard Pirates were invading, but Sengoku replies that he did not care. Tsuru is also alerted of the plan, after dealing with pirates. Whitebeard notices soldiers holding Den Den Mushi, chuckling as he finds out that Sengoku had a plan.
Garp walks up on the stand, where Sengoku asks if Garp had a problem with the new plan. Garp states that he did not, saying that he felt no pity for a pirate. He has flashbacks of when Ace and Luffy were little, including one where he was called an "old piece of shit" by Ace. He sits down next to Ace, claiming that family was different, now crying, asking Ace why he did not follow his grandfather's wishes and become a Marine. Sengoku tells Garp that he would not hold back on him if he were to attempt to save his grandson. However, Garp states that if he could have, he would have.
Koby and Helmeppo talk in hushed tones, bewildered after finding out the plan: the Marines intended to execute Ace before the deadline. At this point, they notice something falling from the sky. Yelling can be heard out of the sky, saying that the "wink" was too much. Marines look up and so does Ace. Soon, it is revealed that these people are Luffy and his Impel Down escapee army, all screaming that they did not wish to die, apart from Luffy who states that since he was rubber, he would be fine. Finally, Luffy arrives on the scene.

Luffy and his escapee crew find themselves on top of a frozen wave, all surprised. Someone states that the wave had picked them up and suddenly froze, due to Whitebeard's Gura Gura no Mi and Aokiji's Hie Hie no Mi powers respectively. Crocodile looks down and so does the others, where Jinbe notices Whitebeard's men while Iva notices that the war had already begun. Soon Luffy gets an idea to get the group off the wave and tells them to hurry as they only had three hours. Luffy's idea is to push the ship down the wave into the water. Mr. 3 and Buggy oppose the plan but Luffy persuades them and Buggy suddenly feels that he could do it, supported by his loyal followers.
A Den Den Mushi rings, giving a Marine report, all in code words. However, one thing could be made clear, that Ace was to be executed before the original time. They all shout that they had to hurry, when the wave collapses, forcing the Marine warship down.
Ace and the Marines look on, bewildered as a Marine Warship crashes into the bay. Sengoku and Whitebeard notice the new addition to the war, while the escapee crew thank their luck as they miraculously managed to land themselves in a patch of water. Jinbe dives down to retrieve the fallen Devil Fruit users, complaining how annoying they were when they fell into the water. Ace shouts Luffy's name; Luffy replies back.
Around him, Marines begin to recognize the new force, starting with the former Shichibukai, Crocodile. Sengoku recognizes Luffy, to Garp's horror; another group of Marines recognize Jinbe, the Revolutionary Iva and other infamous pirates from Impel Down.
Mihawk quietly comments about Luffy making head-turning scenes, while Moria wails his former enemy's name. Jango and Fullbody also ponder Luffy's presence, while Hancock appears relieved that Luffy had managed to escape Impel Down safely. Helmeppo and Koby are surprised that Luffy had escaped Impel Down also, while Aokiji comments on the group as a whole. Kuma remains silent but Kizaru laughs that Luffy and him were to meet again so soon. Marco recognizes Luffy as Ace's brother. Doflamingo chuckles about the Shichibukai present and also at the "outrageous" rookie, Straw Hat Luffy. Tashigi sees them also but Smoker tells her to remain focused while getting slashed, only to go straight through as a wisp of smoke. Akainu finally notes down Luffy as the grandson of Garp the "Hero of Marines" and son of Dragon the Revolutionary.
Sengoku shouts at Jinbe, asking if this was the Shichibukai's choice. Jinbe bellows back, saying that he was fine with this choice and he resigned as a Shichibukai. Garp comments about the group, saying that it was the most "screwed up" group and refused to accept that they all had one common objective. As if on cue, Iva notices Crocodile is gone. The former Shichibukai had appeared at Whitebeard, his hook at the Emperor's neck. Buggy gets angry that Crocodile tried to "steal his glory" while the Whitebeard Pirates begin to react.
Out of nowhere, Luffy, in Gear 2, kicks Crocodile across the face as his leg was coated in water which is the weakness of Suna Suna no Mi. Crocodile asks about their arrangement but Luffy refuses, saying that if the giant old man was indeed Whitebeard, no one was touching him as the Emperor was the only person Ace truly cared about.
As Whitebeard looks back, he notices the straw hat on Luffy's back, belonging to Shanks. He questions it, saying that it bore a strong resemblance to another. Luffy replies that he was borrowing it from Shanks. Whitebeard has a flashback, when Ace was showing Luffy's wanted poster. Whitebeard asks if Luffy was here to save Ace, which Luffy replies that he was. The former states that Luffy would be throwing his life away if he entered the treacherous battlefield. Enraged, Luffy tells Whitebeard to stop telling him what to do, and that he had heard about Whitebeard becoming the Pirate King and states that he was to beat Whitebeard to the status of glory. Whitebeard stares at Luffy and chuckles, telling him to not get in the way, while Luffy talks on, saying that he could do whatever he wanted. Everyone is shocked at Luffy's attitude towards an Emperor, that he would compete against such a pirate. Kizaru asks Sengoku if he was to execute any intruder, with Sengoku agreeing.

The chapter begins with Luffy telling Whitebeard of the new plan to execute Ace ahead of schedule. Luffy sets off towards Ace, while Ivankov wonders why Luffy would be talking to Whitebeard as if they were equals, also questioning the origin of Luffy's confidence. Whilst Whitebeard ponders the Marine's next move, Marco appears in front of him, reporting that the Marines intended to execute Ace ahead. Whitebeard replies that he knew, and to remain calm. He suggests that the Marines new move was to upset the Whitebeard Pirates as he believed that Sengoku would not allow such a plan to be overheard so easily. Kizaru appears, stating that the Celestial Dragons had demanded the arrest of "Straw Hat Luffy" after the Sabaody Incident and prepares to attack him, his foot shining with light. The Impel Down pirates look on, deeming Luffy dead. However, Iva uses his signature move, Death Wink to push Luffy out of the line of fire.
Buggy and his band of escapees shout that they all wanted to go home. However, the escapees mistake Buggy to say "I want to kill Kizaru". They are all in awe, saying that "crews of legends" had no fear of the admirals. Mr. 3 shouts at them, saying that their ears were "filled with too much hope". Luffy thanks Iva, when the latter notices another beam, taking it for Kizaru. Iva uses Rolling Aesthetic to get out of the beam fire. When the dust clears, Kuma appears to have shot it, to Iva's surprise. Iva thinks to himself, even though Kuma was thinking of his role as Warlord, how could he fire upon an old friend like himself?
Luffy urges on when, Hina (or to Luffy, the "girl at Arabasta") appears, using her power to create a cage. Luffy states that he was sick of being locked up and enters Gear Second, evading Hina, which causes the Marine Captain to catch her own Marines instead. Moria spots Luffy, and orders his new zombie army to attack him, using fallen soldiers and an arsenal of shadows. Luffy prepares to fight them, when Ace shouts at Luffy to stay away. He states that both of them were pirates, and they knew better. Ace goes on to say that he had his own battles, his own crew and Luffy shouldn't butt in. Ace calls Luffy a weakling, saying that he would not forgive someone like him for rescuing him, stating it was humiliating. He then tells Luffy to "go home".
Now Luffy becomes enraged and shouts that he is Ace's brother. Ace has a flashback, when he once said "If we have a drink together, we will be brothers" and both of the younger versions of the duo laughing and smiling.
Marines begin to question Luffy's parents, mistaking him for a son of the former Pirate King. Moria seizes this chance, urging his zombie soldiers to attack. However, they are all purified. The reason becomes clear, with Jinbe standing wet of seawater, remembering that salt was their weakness. As a giant with a mace begins to attack Luffy, Sengoku shouts that Luffy was also to be taken down, revealing Luffy is Ace's sworn brother and the son of "Revolutionary" Monkey D. Dragon. This surprises everyone again, with reporters calling their headquarters to inform their bosses. Buggy, Mr. 3, and Moria are shocked. Koby and Helmeppo are surprised that Sengoku revealed Luffy's heritage. Mihawk states that at this point, the news wasn't very surprising; Hancock still loves Luffy, claiming she would not care if he was "the son of demons", and Kuma says nothing. Doflamingo laughs, finally figuring out the answer why Emporio Ivankov was at his side. Jinbe pieces everything together as does Smoker, who also finds the answer to the incident at Loguetown. Garp, the father and grandfather, states that he no longer needed to hide it, stating that Luffy had already acquired such an infamous record, titles and labels may as well mean nothing.
Luffy activates Gear Third, just as the giant appears to be giving the final blow. Luffy sends the giant flying with Gomu Gomu no Gigant Rifle, winning the applause of many Whitebeard's men. Luffy then shouts that he would save Ace even if it killed him. Whitebeard, amused by Luffy's actions, tells Marco, that if the boy Luffy was to die, then he would not forgive him. Marco takes in his new order, ending the chapter.

The chapter starts with Ace recalling what Luffy said to him in the previous chapter ("I'll save you even if it kills me"). He then tells Garp that if someone comes up to rescue him, he will not struggle and he will run away. It would be disrespectful to do otherwise. Luffy and Iva begin taking a lot of fire from the marines and the inmates from Impel Down start complaining that Luffy is stealing all the glory. They urge Buggy to get on with the plan to kill Whitebeard. As Buggy starts thinking to himself about how everyone around him is so strong, Whitebeard calls down to Buggy (Rednose). Whitebeard notes that he is surprised to see him still alive. Buggy becomes instantly terrified with the idea that Whitebeard is about to kill him but the escapees stand amazed that Whitebeard is speaking directly to Buggy. Whitebeard asks if Buggy is after his head and with some hesitance, Buggy says he is. Whitebeard proposes a truce with Buggy until the battle is over, and then he can attempt to take his head. The escapees again are astounded that Whitebeard is talking to Buggy like an equal. Buggy accepts and as Marco notes how easy it was to win him over, Whitebeard tells him that it will be a problem if all the inmates become their enemies. Whitebeard then calls Squard (leader of the Shore Party), who redirects him to the Decalvan Brothers. Whitebeard instructs the Brothers to take control of all pirates. The two brothers tell him okay. The rest of the pirates begin announcing whether they will go left or right and a marine informs Sengoku of what they are doing. Garp and Sengoku realize that Whitebeard has already guessed the plan.
The scene changes and we see Moria grabbing more and more shadows. He gets angry at Jinbe, shouting that while he is there, he cannot make any more zombies. Moria starts grabbing more shadows from the marine soldiers and tells Jinbe that he will take his as well. Jinbe gets into position and then uses Samegawara (Shark Tile) and Seiken (True Fist) to nail a punch into Moria (who then appears to have gone unconscious). The scene changes again and we see Luffy being attacked by several marines including Tashigi. Smoke surrounds him and Luffy gets punched in the face by Smoker's Jutte. Luffy recognizes Smoker ("Smokey") and uses Jet Gatling on Smoker to no avail. Luffy notes that Smoker has gotten stronger who replies that Luffy has as well. As Smoker pins Luffy, he tells him that he now knows why Dragon saved him in Loguetown. As he is being pinned down, Hancock knocks Smoker off of Luffy. Smoker questions how she hit him while he wasn't solid and then angrily asks her why she is not doing her job as Warlord. Hancock retorts that no one can hit her "beloved" and hold him down. She also fumes that she has never been this angry in her life and that she is going to kill Smoker (and feed him to animals). Smoker receives a strain on his body and wonders if this it is the Kuja Haki. Luffy says "Hancock" in surprise and all the rage Hancock previously had instantly disappears as she turns to respond (ecstatic that he called her Hancock correctly again).
We then go on to see Iva fighting Kuma. Iva is dumbfounded that Kuma would attack him, asking if he remembers him. He says he does not want to attack Kuma but he will if he does not stop. Doflamingo enters the fight and informs Iva that Bartholomew Kuma is dead.

The chapter starts with Hancock giving Luffy a key and telling him that it is the key that unlocks Ace's handcuffs. Luffy becomes very excited at this and jumps on Hancock to hug her and shouting thank you. Hancock becomes overcome with Luffy's sign of emotion and she drops to the ground. The marines watching her and Luffy are astounded that Luffy "beat" her with a sumo wrestling move. Hancock begins thinking about what just happened and thinks that because Luffy held her tightly, they are married. Smoker again tries to go after Luffy but Hancock once more stops him. Smoker asks Hancock if she knows what the marines will do to her after everything's over but Hancock does not care.
Luffy continues to run and he runs into the scene with Ivankov, Kuma, and Doflamingo. Ivankov asks Doflamingo what he means by "Kuma is dead" if Kuma is standing right there. Luffy asks if Ivankov knows him. When Doflamingo again states that the pacifista is not Kuma, Ivankov again demands to know what he means. Doflamingo explains that several days before Ace's execution date, Vegapunk made a final modification on Kuma. When Ivankov says he does not understand, Doflamingo goes on to say that Kuma volunteered himself to become the Government's test patient. What originally started as simple transformations of his arms and legs went on and on as more and more parts modified. Ivankov shouts that Kuma hated the World Government which Doflamingo replies that he does not know the full deal Kuma had with the Government, but he does know that all his past has been erased. At this, Luffy remembers that on Sabaody Archipelago Kuma had said to him "We will never meet again". As Kuma attacks again, Ivankov uses Face Spectrum and Galaxy Wink. Ivankov says that there has never been a person who has forgotten him and that he will pound the memories back into Kuma. Ivankov then orders his followers to back up Luffy who begins to run to the gallows.
As Luffy continues to run, Buggy is seen telling his new followers (the escapees from Impel Down) to begin "the plan". Crocodile is being attacked by many followers of Whitebeard, but he and Mr. 1 are managing to kill or at least seriously wound most of them. An annoyed Whitebeard states how Crocodile is being a pain and on cue, Jozu uses his Devil Fruit ability to create a giant diamond fist to punch Crocodile into a spot near Doflamingo. He continues to charge towards Crocodile when suddenly he is stopped by Doflamingo. Crocodile shouts to Doflamingo not to do anything unless he wants to get killed. Doflamingo laughs at this remark and recommends that they join forces.
In the final page Luffy is running directly at the gallows but is intercepted by Mihawk who says to himself, "My apologies Red-Hair, I will not hold back here". Luffy recognizes Mihawk and the latter questions whether Luffy will die now or if he will be able to escape his Black Blade.

Although Mihawk stands before him, Luffy knows he has no time to fight Mihawk, and bursts past him with his super-human speed. However, Mihawk, peering through the crowd, manages to pinpoint Luffy, and swings his blade forward, launching a spiral stream that slashes Luffy, but ignores all others between the two. After sending Luffy careening into a wall, Mihawk pursues him, attempting to impale him. However, two Newkama soldiers get in the way of Mihawk, who brushes them aside with little effort. Luffy attempts to attack Mihawk again, but realizing that the Warlord of the Sea would slice his arm off, halts his attack at the last moment, instead choosing to run away. Mihawk comments that Luffy was unusually composed as he slices horizontally at the rubber man. Although Luffy dodges it, the attack slices the remaining frozen wave in two, causing the upper half to come crashing down on Marineford.
Across the battlefield, Crocodile turns down Doflamingo's offer, saying that Doflamingo is not at his level, and that instead Doflamingo could be his subordinate. Doflamingo laughs at how he thought Crocodile would be rational, the latter stating that if he was, he would not have come to Marineford in the first place. He then performs Sables, attempting to blow Doflamingo away. The attack is not confined to Doflamingo, though, as Buggy is accidentally sucked into the vortex as well.
As Luffy and Mihawk continue their battle, the latter notes on how Luffy is moving away from the execution platform. In a move of desperation, Luffy grabs onto Buggy and uses him as a shield against Mihawk's attack. Although Buggy is angry at Luffy, Luffy continues to use him as a shield. Getting fed up, Buggy launches a Special Muggy Ball at Mihawk, who casually deflects it with his blade, causing it to explode in Buggy's face. Luffy, having finally gotten a break, dashes back towards the platform. Seeing that Mihawk was going to attack Luffy again, Marco calls over Whitebeard's fifth division commander, Vista, to interfere and hold Mihawk back. When Mihawk recognizes him, Vista is happy to hear that Mihawk had heard of him; Mihawk replies by saying that only a fool would not have heard of him. As Luffy continues to make his way towards the platform, Mihawk comments on how he has the strange ability to make anyone around him an ally, an ability that is the most dangerous in the world.
The battle continues to rage on, as the onlookers at Sabaody Archipelago watch on in horror. As the civilians begin to realize that Ace is to be executed early, Sengoku demands that the feed be cut off, so that the civilians would not lose faith in the Marines, as such a tragedy would be too much for them to witness. Sengoku justifies his actions by saying that all they needed to say to the world after the battle was over would be one word: "Victory".
Suddenly, more battleships begin to appear from behind. As the pirates note that they are not allies, Whitebeard, Luffy, and Ivankov recognize those on board: Sentomaru has arrived at the battle, backed up by an army of at least nine Pacifista. The battle has gone on for an hour and a half, and it is about to enter its final phase.

The Pacifista army advances towards the Whitebeard Pirates, over 20 in number. Everyone who is not a Marine is surprised, with reporters at Sabaody scrambling to reach their headquarters while civilians stare in awe at the numerous Bartholomew Kumas. A Whitebeard Pirate states that he had heard rumors about Vegapunk being in the process of developing a human weapon and he's been occasionally sending prototypes out to deal with various incidents.
Sentomaru reveals the Marine plan, talking to Kizaru, complaining that the Whitebeard Pirates were all over the place. A pirate picks up on this, inferring that the Marines had originally planned to corner the pirates using the Pacifista in the bay. This also reveals part of Whitebeard's idea to scatter all his men over the bay. Sengoku orders the attack anyways, telling the Pacifistas to aim attacks at stragglers. Sentomaru gives the order to commence attack, with Pacifista blasting pirates everywhere. One pirate attempts to take out a Pacifista with a gigantic club. He brings it down but fails to knock the human weapon out, his club breaking on impact against the Pacifista's chest.
Whitebeard orders his men forward, telling them not to worry about the forces behind them. More men attempt to battle the Pacifista, only failing in the process. At Sabaody, the images on the screens cut out. This becomes part of Sengoku's ultimate plan, ordering a "route" to begin and for Ace's execution to begin at the same time. Luffy takes note of this new change and rushes forward, only to be greeted by Kizaru. The admiral sends Luffy back. Luffy crashes into Jinbe who tells Luffy not to be surprised at the admiral's strength. A man addresses Luffy as "Ace's little brother", asking if he had run out of strength. Jinbe recognizes him as a Division Commander of the Whitebeard Pirates. As per normal, Kizaru does not appear to be worried but simply comments that the situation was "terrifying".
Moria approaches a Division Commander named Curiel, telling him that if they entered the bay, they would be dead and that either way, if Whitebeard was to die, it would be "hilarious". Curiel simply replies that he would not let "Dad" (Whitebeard) or Ace die. Meanwhile, Vista is still fighting Mihawk in sword combat. Mihawk states that the match was due for an end, with Vista agreeing. Tashigi tells Smoker that they were done and advances further while Hancock prays for Luffy to finish his mission. However, somewhere in the battlefield the real Kuma keeps fighting.
Sengoku asks if the video feed had been cut, demanding it to be cut as they were still broadcasting. The only camera to be working is revealed to belong to an Impel Down escapee. The escapees, trying to boost Buggy's fame, broadcast him to the public as "Red-Hair's brother" or "the pirate from the legendary crew of Gol D. Roger". The Marines fire upon the escapees, trying to destroy the camera as they cannot proceed the battle. The civilians demand the other cameras, shouting for the Pacifistas and Ace's execution to be shown.
Aboard the Moby Dick, Squard appears and Whitebeard asks if he was fine as he could not be reached. Squard reports that the rear pirates had been severely hit and Whitebeard responds by stating that he would join the fight now. Squard thanks Whitebeard, telling the Emperor that he owed a great debt to the Whitebeard Pirates. On the ice, Marco appears surprised that Squard was aboard the Moby Dick. The next event becomes evidently shocking to everyone, possibly changing the course of the war. The next event is: Squard stabs Whitebeard through the chest using his sword, leaving Whitebeard, Luffy, Ace, Jinbe, Marco, and Jozu in shock.

Everyone is shocked as they watched Squard stab Whitebeard in the chest. As the events are broadcasted to the whole world via Den Den Mushi, an angry Marco steps in and pushes Squard to the ground. Squard explain the reasons for his actions saying that Whitebeard made a deal with the world government, sparing his life, Ace's and the rest of Whitebeard's crew while the life of his allies would be in danger of getting killed. Furthermore, Squard seems to hold a grudge against Gol D. Roger for decimating his comrades years ago and that having Whitebeard befriend Ace was already betrayal on his part. He then loudly shouts his observation saying that the marines are only attacking the allies and not Whitebeard himself. To complicate things even more, the walls of ice Aokiji created at the beginning of the battle is trapping all the pirates in the bay. As Whitebeard's allies begin doubting Whitebeard himself, Aokiji freezes Buggy and his Impel Down crewmates and the whole world is left questioning whether this was planned from the start. Soon after there's an order to raise the siege wall. Crocodile then comments on how weak Whitebeard has become saying that Whitebeard was stronger back then. Marco, trying to figure out the entire mess comments on how Whitebeard should've been able to dodge it however his health is also lacking.
Finally Whitebeard breaks his silence saying that Squard was a foolish son, however no matter how foolish he was he still loves him and bends down to hug him. Whitebeard asked Squard who managed to turn his loyalty against him and Squard replies by saying a member of the rebel faction said that if he managed to kill Whitebeard then his crew would be spared. Whitebeard being able to instantly infer it was Akainu tells Squard to not hate Ace for being Roger's son but to be friends with him since he has done nothing bad to Squard. Also he comments that Ace is not the only special person and that everyone in his "family" was special.
Whitebeard praises Sengoku's highly deceptive strategy saying he's still got the ideas to be an elite strategist. To reassure his crew and allies that Whitebeard did not sell out his children, he destroys the two ice walls blocking the way earlier so that the pirates can have an escape route. His allies now convinced that he did not sell them out are now happy after knowing the truth and Whitebeard makes a final statement before jumping off his ship and joining the fray himself. Sengoku yells to get ready as the worlds strongest man begins his attack!

As Whitebeard charges into battle, all of his crew and allies follow behind and open a path for him. One of the Decalvan Brothers comments on how hard it must be for Squard to have been tricked and to be responsible for stabbing Whitebeard, causing Whitebeard's allies to scream that they'll never forgive the Marines. As Squard wallows in grief of his own sins, Marco asks him if just crying will help set things right and that he should go and repay his debt.
Luffy, musing on how strong Whitebeard must be, continues to run head-long towards the execution platform. Ivankov notes that all of the Marines are retreating into the plaza. While Jinbe agrees that it is worrisome, he states that there's no time to think, as Whitebeard is on the move.
John Giant then appears on the front line, ready to stop Whitebeard and his crew as his and Whitebeard's weapons. Whitebeard then surprises the giant by causing an earthquake so massive, that the entire island tilts to one side. As the Marines panic, Doflamingo laughs about how insane Whitebeard is, while Hancock continues to care only for Luffy's safety. Whitebeard then delivers a quake-imbued punch to John Giant's chest, defeating him.
As onlookers wonder why the quakes aren't effecting the execution platform, they see that the three admirals are somehow holding it together, as the three banter about how it's each other's fault that the wall is not up yet. As the pirates finally make it towards the city, dozens of walls shoot up from the ground, blocking their path. As much as the pirates try to attack it, the wall will not budge. Cannons emerge from the walls, preparing to fire. However, one wall near the front remains open; Oars' body is blocking the wall's path, and his blood has interfered with the system. Although the situation is not ideal, Sengoku commands Akainu to attack anyway; Akainu then uses Ryusei Kazan, causing a storm of flaming fists to rain down upon the pirates.

Back at the Sabaody Archipelago, reporters and bystanders are complaining about the video feed getting cut. They barrage the stationed Marines with questions, asking if Whitebeard and the Marines really made a bargain and if Whitebeard sold out his allies. Eustass Kid and crew decide to leave since the show is over. The other Supernovas, all alive and well on Sabaody, comment on the situation.
Meanwhile, Akainu's attack is wreaking havoc on the pirates, destroying all their footing. Moby Dick is struck down in the attack, and is completely destroyed. As the sea water begins to turn to magma, the cannons from within the iron wall begin firing at the pirates, restraining them at the center of the enclosure. Whitebeard attempts to use his Gura Gura no Mi powers to smash through a section of the wall, but the blow only dents it.
Seeings as everything is going according to plan, Sengoku announces that it is time to execute Ace. The pirates decide that to reach Ace they need to travel over Little Oars Jr. As Ivankov and Jinbe look for Luffy, they see that he is recklessly running through the path with the other pirates, and is forced back by an explosion. Ivankov berates Luffy, stating that the one path through would be the most guarded. As Jinbe and Ivankov wonder how they will manage to pass through, Luffy asks a favor of Jinbe.
Oars Jr. surprisingly rises, having been awakened by the blast. As the Marines all aim at him, preparing to finish him off, a pillar of water flies through the sky, soaring over the gap in the wall and landing right in front of the execution platform. From the water emerges Luffy, wielding a mast from one of the ships in his hands. Standing right before Luffy, the admirals all comment on Luffy's boldness. Luffy tries to strike the admirals with the mast, but Aokiji freezes it. He then uses Gomu Gomu no Stamp Gatling, which shatters the frozen mass.
Whitebeard notes how Luffy's recklessness is just like Ace's. He commands Oars Jr. to stay there and stay safe, and commands Jozu to prepare their trump card and their men to prepare to charge at the plaza.


As the admirals dodge the projectiles formed from the frozen mast, Luffy activates Gear Second, hoping to make a straight dash for Ace. However, Kizaru easily catches up to him and knocks him aside with a kick at light-speed.
Up on the execution platform, the guards are about to execute Ace. However, they are blown back by an unknown force, which is revealed to be an attack by none other than Crocodile. While Sengoku wonders why Crocodile would aid his own enemy, the former Shichibukai notes that he only did it because he did not want to see the Marines be satisfied. Suddenly, taking everyone by surprise, Crocodile's head comes flying off of his body. Doflamingo, standing behind Crocodile, says that he is jealous that he had decided to side with Whitebeard instead of him. Forming his head back onto his body, Crocodile responds that he is not teaming up with anyone and attacks Doflamingo.
Meanwhile, Luffy has been knocked down, as Aokiji stabbed him with an ice saber. Hancock screams at Aokiji and prepares to interfere, but instead Marco knocks Aokiji away.
The pirates in the bay, attempting to make their way past the iron wall, all try to swim towards the gateway made by Oars. As the Marines prepare to fire upon the susceptible pirates, a coated ship suddenly emerges from the sea, allowing most in the water to climb aboard. Whitebeard notes that he never said that all of his ships had surfaced. While the Marines are busy debating whether or not they should aim at Oars or the ship, Oars lifts the ship into the air and pulls it through the hole he created. As the pirates prepare to storm the stage, Oars takes cannon fire, causing him to collapse once more. Whitebeard then leaps into the plaza and, commanded his "children" to keep away, swings his bisento in a circle, knocking away all of the Marines in his path.
With the only Marines still standing being the admirals, a few of the vice admirals, and those upon the podium, the Whitebeard Pirates prepare to make their final charge to save Ace. Sengoku then tells Garp that the two of them will be required to join the war.

The Whitebeard Pirates and their subordinate crews began their assault on the plaza. Whitebeard prepares to use a devastating attack, but Admiral Aokiji freezes Whitebeard using Ice Ball. Whitebeard breaks free from the ice he was encased in and attacked Aokiji. Aokiji prepares to counter with Ice Block Partisan, but Jozu attacked him before he can do so. Jozu and Aokiji prepare to face off against each other.
Luffy, meanwhile, continues to move toward the execution platform. However, Momonga and Dalmatian stand in Luffy's way and attack him. Luffy then gets struck down by Admiral Kizaru, who told Luffy that courage alone is not enough and kicked him away. Luffy is sent flying and is then caught by Whitebeard. Kizaru chides Whitebeard for allowing Luffy to lead the charge. Whitebeard then hand Luffy to his men and says that Luffy has done enough. As Whitebeard's men try to tend to Luffy's wounds, Luffy insisted to go on but soon collapses. Whitebeard comments on how he held a soft spot for people like Luffy.
Whitebeard prepares to attack again, but is intercepted by Akainu. Akainu tells Whitebeard that his power can destroy Marineford. Whitebeard responds by saying that he should try to protect it. Akainu launches a magma fist and Whitebeard counters with an air quake.
Marco attempts to reach Ace in his phoenix form. Garp intercepts him and says to the Whitebeard Pirates that they will have to get past Garp before they can save Ace.

Whitebeard tells his allies not to be intimidated by Garp, as he is just an old man. Akainu reminds Whitebeard that they are of the same generation, then proceeds to fire a hound made of magma at Whitebeard, who deflects the attack and causes more damage to Marineford.
The pirates continue to cut a path through the Marine's forces, heavily damaging a Pacifista in the process. Ace suddenly begins to cry, as he recollects on his childhood; everyone with whom he had spoken about Roger despising the man, causing Ace to retaliate by beating them half to death. Ace had once asked Garp if he really should've been born; Garp replied by saying that was something that could only be discovered by living. Ace begins to loathe himself, stating that he's so happy that his allies care enough to spill blood for him that he cannot stop crying, and that he suddenly wants to live.
Meanwhile, Buggy and the escapees from Impel Down remain on a block of ice outside of the encircling wall. One of the pirates tells Buggy that he was thawed by the sea of magma. Buggy says to himself that he plans to take out vengeance against the Marines.
Suddenly, Whitebeard collapses, succumbing to the effects of old age. Marco rushes to protect him, but in his frenzy he is unable to foresee an attack by Kizaru, which pierces through him. Jozu, distracted by Kizaru's attack, has his arm frozen over by Aokiji. Akainu then deals a devastating magma-powered blow directly into Whitebeard's chest. Ivankov berates the collapsed Luffy, who had asked for another dosage of Tension Hormones. Ivankov states that Luffy had been through too much over the course of Impel Down until now, and that pushing himself any further would mean throwing his life away. Luffy states that he will do whatever he can, even if he dies, as being unable to fight and failing to save Ace would make him want to die anyway. Ivankov reprimands Luffy, stating that if Luffy dies, then he would be unable to face Dragon ever again; however, Ivankov tells Luffy that he can have it "his own damned way", injecting him with another shot of Tension Hormones. Empowered once more, Luffy stands up and lets out a scream of resolve.

Just having been dosed with tension hormones, Luffy races towards the execution platform where the blades are raised in preparation for their descent down Ace's neck. Ivankov reminds Luffy that he is still severely injured and cannot afford to be injured again as he helps Luffy clear a path to Ace. Suddenly, Luffy spots Koby blocking his direct path to Ace. Koby strengthens his resolve to fight and grow, and attacks Luffy. However, despite Koby's use of Soru, Luffy sees past the technique and lands a crippling blow (Gomu Gomu no Bullet) right in Koby's face leaving him crumpled and bloodied on the ground. With that hurdle jumped, another rises up in the form of the World Government-commandeered and Marine-allied Pacifista firing lasers at them. Conveniently, Shichibukai Boa Hancock appears and throws herself in front of Luffy rendering the Pacifista unable to attack because their programming forbids them from attacking allies. Luffy thanks the Pirate Empress and she in turn swoons when he says her name.
The scene is then focused on First Division Commander Marco the Phoenix, who is trying to recover after just having been pierced by two light beams from Admiral Kizaru when the attack on Whitebeard had him distracted. Marco tries to continue the fight but Vice Admiral Onigumo sneaks up behind him and puts Seastone handcuffs on his right hand, sealing off his Devil Fruit powers. Consequently, Admiral Kizaru pierces his chest yet again with two light beams. The Whitebeard-allied pirates cry out at the sight of the defeated commander.
Also defeated is Jozu having been frozen solid by Admiral Aokiji who also took full advantage of the moment the Commander was distracted by the blow to Whitebeard. Aokiji walks off noting that "the Whitebeard pirates have really fallen apart..."
With even the Commanders "falling like flies", Fleet Admiral Sengoku demands the immediate delivery of Whitebeard's head. This sparks a full frontal attack on Whitebeard leaving him lanced, pierced and bullet ridden by notable Marines, but remarkably he is still standing. The pirates cry out "Old man!" in concern for Whitebeard, who clearly shows fatigue, but with a strong resolve he roars out, "I AM WHITEBEARD!!!" as he brushes away the attackers with his bisento, claiming that he needs no assistance and can hold out a little longer.
Seeing Whitebeard defeating quite a number of exceptional Marine fighters with one felling swoop, and still standing despite his severe, mortal-looking injuries, the Marines come to the conclusion that he is a monster. Whitebeard then announces that he is fully aware of what his death entails and that he will not perish until he can see off the future of his children.
A group of the Whitebeard pirates, including Vista, along with Jinbe take up formation behind Whitebeard to aid him but Fleet Admiral Sengoku states that he will show Whitebeard the future of his "children" and orders the commencement of Ace's execution. Sengoku tells Whitebeard to watch closely as the executioners' blades swing down in a wide arc. With Ace resigned to his fate and Whitebeard incapacitated, the only thing that the pirates can do is look on as the fruit of their efforts is about to get sliced open.
With his brother's demise impending, Luffy lets loose a Haki-imbued yell, "STOP IT!!!" (just like what he did in the arena in Amazon Lily), that renders the executioners (and some weak-willed individuals, notably Jango) unconscious. Fleet Admiral Sengoku's eyes darken in shock and knowledgeable pirates and Marines note that it is Haoshoku Haki. Whitebeard looks on, just as surprised and tells Marco to protect Luffy.

As everyone tries to recover from Luffy's massive burst of Haki, Whitebeard's allies and the Marines alike all stand in awe of his power. Vice Admiral Doberman warns the Marines that Luffy has to be cut down, or else he will become a fearsome force in the future. When Ivankov asks Luffy how he got that level of power of Haki, Luffy responds that he has no idea what Ivankov is talking about. Ivankov lets Luffy be, but understands that even if Luffy does not realize it, he attracts people because of the will to fight the unknown, the same as Dragon.
The Marines convene around Whitebeard once more, who again brushes them aside. He then commands all of his forces to back up Luffy. Whitebeard thinks to himself that he wants Luffy to show him just what will come at the end of the Great Age of Pirates. As Luffy is about to be attacked, Whitebeard's allies jump in and protect him, telling him that he has to go on ahead while Whitebeard holds the Marines off. Ivankov tells Luffy that Whitebeard is putting all of his faith in him; Luffy responds that he does not care about Whitebeard, and that he's only there to save Ace. Mihawk attempts to attack Luffy, but is stopped by Mr. 1, who responds to Luffy's shock by saying that he is protecting him only by Crocodile's orders. After Mihawk strikes Mr. 1 down, Crocodile interferes and protects his right-hand man.
Sentomaru yells at Hancock for stopping a great number of Pacifista, asking why she is doing it if she is on their side. She responds by shrieking that "love is always a hurricane" and leaves Sentomaru very confused.
Ivankov asks for help within his hair, and none other than Inazuma, fully recovered, answers to his call. He leaps from Ivankov's hair and, cutting up the ground around him, makes a walkway that leads to the execution platform. Thanking Inazuma, Luffy runs up towards Ace. Many of the Marines try to stop Luffy, but they are halted by Whitebeard and his forces. Whitebeard's allies, as well as Buggy and his crew, watch Luffy get closer and closer to Ace; however, Garp leaps through the bridge from below, landing between Luffy and Ace, cracking the ground with his impact. Luffy tells Garp to move aside, but Garp refuses, as he is a Marine Headquarters Vice Admiral.

As Luffy and Garp face off against each other on the collapsing bridge, Garp reveals that he now considers both Luffy and Ace as his enemies because of their decisions to become pirates. However, in the midst of launching a massive punch at each other, Garp is distracted by memories of his grandsons as Luffy evades his punch and connects with his own Gear Second punch, sending the vice admiral crashing onto the ground below, much to the shock of the other vice admirals. Luffy then lands on the scaffold, and prepares to use the key he received from Hancock to release Ace from his shackles. Sengoku then uses his Devil Fruit powers, transforming into a gigantic Buddha-like entity and decides to kill both Ace and Luffy. Kizaru shoots the key with a laser from below, breaking it, before Luffy can unlock the shackles. Suddenly, one of the unconscious executioners wakes up and reveals himself to be Mr. 3 in disguise. Luffy forms a Gomu Gomu no Gigant Fusen (Gigantic Rubber Balloon), and Mr. 3 erects a Candle Wall to shield Ace, thus effectively blocking Sengoku's immense punch. However, the execution stand breaks and collapses. The Marines below then launch a barrage of cannon blasts at the three falling criminals, and Mr. 3 reveals that he was up there to avenge his fallen comrade, Mr. 2 Bon Kurei. He then forms a wax key and gives it to Luffy to free Ace. The blasts collide with them just as Ace turns into intangible flames to protect Luffy and Mr. 3.

All of Whitebeard's allies cheer on Luffy and Ace for their efforts, while the Impel Down escapees stand amazed at Luffy's feats up to that point. The Marines brace themselves to stop Ace and Luffy, who get ready to break through. As the Marines open fire, Ace and Luffy easily fight back against the soldiers. Whitebeard's forces try to create a path for Luffy and Ace, while the Marines continue to attempt to execute the two. Aokiji fires a mass of ice at them, which Ace blocks with an enormous wall of fire. Sengoku grumbles in disgrace that he had allowed the two to get away; Doflamingo suggests they let them get away to make things more interesting, which Vice Admiral Momonga scolds him for; Akainu swears that he will not allow any of them to leave; the Marines come across Mr. 3, who is lying exhausted from his actions.
Whitebeard's extra ship suddenly comes plowing through Marineford, being driven by Squard. Squard reveals that he wishes to stall the Marines while the others escape. Marco comments on Squard's stupidity as an ally unlocks the Seastone cuffs around him. As the ship pulls closer into the city, it screeches to a halt, as Whitebeard stops it with one hand. Whitebeard shouts out that Squard had done nothing, as he was reaching the end of his lifespan anyway; he then says that he's about to deliver his final "captain's order". While his men try to talk him out of it, Whitebeard bellows out that they must part ways, and that they must all return to the New World alive at all costs. He claims that he is nothing more than a remnant of an era gone by, delivering an enormous quake into the city of Marineford. Reminiscing, the crew of his past ask Whitebeard what he wants if he does not desire treasure, and to the crew of his present he says that he has had a long journey, and is ready to settle things with the Marines.

Whitebeard has decided to stay behind in Marineford alone and destroy everything as well as sink the island into sea while sacrificing himself. All the pirates are trying to evacuate, while Whitebeard holds all the marines back alone. Meanwhile, the visual Den Den Mushi wakes up and Buggy restarts the broadcast and prepares to take Whitebeard's head. At the same time Jinbe also decides to stay back to help Whitebeard and evacuate pirates. While Ace is on his way to freedom, Akainu provokes him to turn back by insulting Whitebeard. An enraged Ace clashes with Akainu, but Ace ended up getting burned by Akainu's Magu Magu no Mi powers. Ace then learns the hard way that Akainu's logia fruit with the power of magma is the natural enemy and superior to that of Ace's logia with the power of fire. Luffy tries to go to Ace's aid but he finally loses his strength and buckles down dropping Ace's Vivre Card. While Luffy is down, Akainu tries to finish him off, but Ace takes the hit, allowing Akainu to pierce through his body instead of Luffy's. The chapter ends with Ace's Vivre Card shown to burn up leaving very little intact while Luffy and the Whitebeard Pirates watches dumbstruck.

Ace hugs Luffy while taking his last breath. Ace asks Luffy to forgive him for not letting Luffy save him completely. Marco tells Mr. 3 to make him a key so he can take off his Seastone handcuffs.
While allies and members of the Whitebeard pirates fend off Admiral Akainu, Sengoku is forced to subdue Garp, because otherwise Garp would attempt to kill Akainu. Ace's crewmates call a doctor, but Ace says it's too late because his insides have been melted. Many flashbacks from Ace's past are shown in which people commented that if Gol D. Roger has a kid, that kid should just die.
Ace then says his last words, how he will miss everyone, and how glad he was to be accepted by his friends and to have a family. He also mentions someone dear to him for the first time. In the final flashback, Luffy is crying and Ace tells Luffy that he is never going to die cause he has a little brother to worry about. With that, his Vivre Card burns completely and a flashback of his mother is shown naming him Gol D. Ace. Both Whitebeard and Garp start to cry. In the final scene, Ace dies in front of Luffy's lap, leaving Luffy alone with a tormented expression on his face, and spelling the end for the Gol D. bloodline.

The chapter starts with a flashback of Ace and Luffy having a drink and becoming brothers. Everyone is sad because of Ace's death. Ivankov notes that Luffy has mentally collapsed and that his life is now in danger. Akainu attempts to kill Luffy, but Marco interrupts the attack. Marco orders Jinbe to take Luffy with him. Marco swears that the Whitebeard Pirates will protect him in place of Ace and if they let him die, they would consider it shame on the entire Whitebeard Pirates. Whitebeard, who was observing the situation, attacks Akainu from the back without saying a word. Akainu goes down and his face is covered in blood. Akainu retaliates with a punch that takes out a portion of Whitebeard's head. Whitebeard then punches Akainu a second time which also causes massive destruction to the Marine HQ itself. Akainu falls into the crevice created by Whitebeard and is therefore beaten by him. The Marineford plaza is split in two by the crevice and the pirates are separated from Whitebeard. Sengoku comments on how Whitebeard still has this much power, even after losing a portion of his head. The pirates are getting back to the ship. Boa Hancock tells her snake pet Salome that she is worried about Luffy. The Blackbeard Pirates are then spotted standing on the execution platform with some additional members. Sengoku, shocked by their presence, questions how they got there. Doflamingo just comments how awesome it is that they got a great guest. Blackbeard himself says that he is glad he got there in time to see Whitebeard die.

After the escaped Level 6 inmates of Blackbeard's crew have been quickly highlighted, Whitebeard and Blackbeard begin to fight each other. Blackbeard's Yami Yami no Mi powers negate Whitebeard's Gura Gura no Mi powers but Whitebeard still gains the upper hand as he exclaims that he could never call Blackbeard "son" after everything he has done. There is a flashback of a conversation between Whitebeard and Roger in which Roger offers to tell Whitebeard how to get to Laugh Tale to claim the One Piece. Whitebeard turns him down saying treasure is not what he is after. Roger notes that everyone is calling him Gold Roger when he is Gol D. Roger. Whitebeard inquires about the D and its meaning and Roger tells him off panel.
Meanwhile, as Whitebeard nearly kills Blackbeard by using his quake powers at point blank range. He cryptically says that Blackbeard is not the person Roger was waiting for but rather someone who will bear the weight of all those centuries upon his back (of people passing their will to the next generation) to challenge the world in a massive war. There is another flashback conversation where a much younger Whitebeard tells an unknown pirate that he is not interested in treasure. He just wants family. He apologizes to his sons for leaving Blackbeard for them to deal with, thanks them and bids them a final farewell. Whitebeard is eulogized by the narrator listing all the injuries he had taken in this war yet his back, where his jolly roger is tattooed, bears no marks or scars of retreat as Whitebeard dies standing up.

The chapter starts with the death of Whitebeard being shown around the world, as seen on the Archipelago. There, Silvers Rayleigh is shown, commenting on Whitebeard's death, with a smile and tears. Then Marineford is shown, split in two pieces, with a summit in the center. Fleet Admiral Sengoku and Monkey D. Garp take a look at the recently killed Edward Newgate. The Shichibukai are seen laughing and/or watching the last stand of Whitebeard. Also the army of Pacifista is seen watching. Marco too, is seen grieving.
Blackbeard and his crew are seen throwing a black cloth over Whitebeard as Blackbeard goes inside the cloth with Whitebeard's body. Shiryu asks whether they will disband and go separate ways should Blackbeard fail. Laffitte tells the Marines that it is a no entry zone. The Whitebeard Pirates and the Marines are surprised by the action, wondering what they want to do with their former captain and enemy, though the Blackbeard Pirates seem excited.
It is shown that Buggy cannot take the drama of the battlefield anymore and is seen crying while he tries to flee. His newly found crew of Impel Down prisoners follows him, understanding that their leader could not take Whitebeard's head. They left on the Den Den Mushi, leaving the Sabaody audience able to watch the war as it comes to an end. Jinbe is seen carrying Monkey D. Luffy, who is in shock after going through a mental breakdown over the loss of his brother. To encourage Luffy his name is yelled from Whitebeard's fleet. At that moment, Jinbe remembers what his last conversation was with Ace. Ace asked Jinbe to take care of his brother if Ace did not survive. Jinbe answered that he only protects the people he deeply cares about. Admiral Aokiji then freezes the bay where the pirate fleet is. Now, due to his Hie Hie no Mi powers, the fleet cannot escape.
A huge explosion in front of Jinbe and Luffy appears, making them unable to move forward. Akainu is shown within the flame and smoke, covered in blood. He said that Jinbe should give up on Dragon's son. To convince Jinbe that he should not hand over Luffy, the Whitebeard Pirates yell that Ace's family is their family. Jinbe then states that he will protect Luffy even if it costs him his life. Meanwhile, Emporio Ivankov appears behind Jinbe. The okama tells Jinbe to get away, launching a Hell Wink at Akainu. In between these actions, the cloth covering Whitebeard and Teach is removed. Jesus Burgess and Avalo Pizarro are laughing, everyone else seems surprised that nothing happened to their father and dead enemy.
Blackbeard is seen using the Yami Yami no Mi, creating a Black Hole. Then, to everyone's shock and amazement, he takes the attack stance of Whitebeard and uses the Gura Gura no Mi. For the second time, Marineford Plaza is attacked by air tremors and earthquakes, making it crumble. Blackbeard is seen looking at his two hands, each powered by his Devil Fruits, and declares that he is the ultimate being. Marines remark that he stole Whitebeard's powers. Marco states that Teach is not a normal human. The Archipelago too is in shock, including Sengoku and Akainu. Blackbeard yells that this is his era.

The chapter starts with Marines running away from the main building of Marineford, which starts to collapse. As the top part of the building starts to crumble down, everybody, even on the Archipelago, looks in shock and tears. Every citizen and marine is devastated. As the battlefield too is starting to get uneven, the Blackbeard Pirates get further from each other. Whitebeard Pirates and their allies seem angry. Marshall D. Teach asks how he should begin using his new powers, answering himself the same moment, saying he will sink Marineford to its core. But then, Teach is shocked, being attacked by the Buddha form of Fleet Admiral Sengoku. As a shockwave surrounds the Blackbeard Pirates, Sengoku stomps the shockwave, making it implode. The attack lets the Blackbeard Pirates fly to the ground. Shiryu and Avalo Pizarro fly further away, and Blackbeard coughs up blood. Recovering, he creates another shockwave, while standing on a cliff. Sengoku punches the shockwave a second time, making the Blackbeard Pirates blast away. Vasco Shot and Burgess cough blood, and they try to stand up. Sengoku looks down, saying that as long as the Marines have the base, they can rebuild it. He yells Blackbeard off, telling him Marineford is the center of the world and Sengoku will not let him sink it. Blackbeard replies with an exhausted laugh, daring Sengoku to protect it.
At the same time, at the coast of Marineford, Admiral Akainu takes revenge on Emporio Ivankov for attacking him with a Hell Wink. As Ivankov and Inazuma fall to the ground, the dancers shoot the Logia admiral. Akainu, not being wounded at all, tells Jinbe to hand over Dragon's son. That moment, Jinbe tries to get to the ocean, jumping towards it. In the air, he realizes everything is ice. Aokiji sarcastically apologizes to the former Shichibukai. Jinbe looks back, seeing Akainu already on his heels. Akainu jumps after him, punching the fish-man to the ice. Jinbe is hardly hurt though, as the impact goes to Luffy's stomach. The Whitebeard Pirates reply on the punch, screaming Jinbe's name. They encourage him, screaming that he should get through. That moment he lands on his back. Akainu lands next to him shortly after. Jinbe stands up, looking at the still mentally collapsed Luffy. As Jinbe apologizes for making things even worse, Akainu walks towards the two. He questions Jinbe's attempt to save Luffy and not only himself, as he does not give the boy a chance of surviving. Luffy's straw hat falls to the ground.
As Akainu approaches them, he is split in two by sand. As the admiral looks back, Crocodile stands behind him, looking angry and using Sables to propel Jinbe and Luffy up in the air, away from Akainu. Jinbe looks shocked by the saving action of the sandman. Crocodile yells they should get Luffy and Jinbe on a ship. The Impel Down escapees reply. Jinbe is getting told off by Crocodile, who tells him that if he wants to protect someone, he has to do it right. As they are flying, Luffy and Jinbe collide with a fleeing Buggy. His prisoner followers praise him for 'saving' them, again misinterpreting his cowardice. Suddenly, a giant molten fist attacks the shocked Buggy and his unwanted package, to which they barely escape. Akainu, getting himself back together, looks up. Standing before him are the Whitebeard commanders (including Marco and Vista) and Crocodile. As Akainu starts to get even more angry seeing that everyone wants to save Luffy, Vista replies that Luffy is the one Ace loved and Whitebeard recognized. Vista tells Akainu they will not let the kid die, and that they will send him to the next era. Marco, being very angry, turns into his Zoan Devil Fruit form. Akainu sets off to attack them all. Someone on the Whitebeard fleet yells that Blackbeard and Sengoku are fighting, and now the commanders and Akainu as well. He says that the war is not coming to an end. All of a sudden, a submarine emerges from the unfrozen water, a door opens and someone yells to bring 'Mr. Straw Hat' to him. Buggy angrily asks why, the other replying that Luffy shouldn't die here. It is shown that Trafalgar Law and his crew are exiting their submarine. Law demands of Buggy to hand Luffy over, because he's a doctor.

The Marines notice Trafalgar Law and label him as Luffy's accomplice. Law is urging Buggy to get Luffy and Jinbe on board his submarine, Buggy questions who he is once more. The Marines immediately begin attacking Law's ship, while orders are given on the ground to divide the Marine's forces to attack the Blackbeard Pirates and the Whitebeard Pirates, more Marines begin emerging from trap doors that lead to underground passages. Blackbeard laughs and shakes up Marineford and the ocean around it, causing massive waves to flow around, with Jesus Burgess warning Blackbeard that they will lose their footing if he continues on, while Blackbeard ignores it and threatens Garp and Sengoku that he's going to "close the book" on them like he did with Whitebeard.
Meanwhile in Sabaody Archipelago, an announcement is made to evacuate to the north side of the archipelago to avoid tsunamis. In the midst of the war, Koby is crying, Helmeppo asking him why he's sad. Koby simply answers that a "voice" in his head has disappeared. He notices how the marines are continuing to attack, even after completing their original goal of executing Ace. While he is thinking this, a nearby Marine is injured, another marine goes to his side to help him only to be rejected by Doberman, saying they do not have time to treat the injured, much to the viewed shock of Tashigi and Smoker. Doberman commands the marines to beat every last pirate down, Akainu once more stating that they cannot allow the "evil known as pirates" to exist. Blackbeard is seen laughing some more, claiming that he will destroy everything.
Elsewhere, while Buggy is flying in the air, he notices a gleam of light, as Kizaru shoots another laser beam in his direction. Fearing for his life, Buggy throws Jinbe and Luffy on the deck of Law's submarine. Bepo commands Jean Bart to grab them. Kizaru comments Law on escaping from him during the incident at Sabaody Archipelago, and is about to attack him, until a shouting is heard. The shouting is revealed to be coming from Koby, who yells for everyone to stop fighting, since the Marines have families waiting for them, and lives are being wasted. He yells at how the Marines already accomplished their goal, how they are chasing pirates who do not wish to fight and are desiring war, and how they are abandoning injured Marines while they could be treated, finishing his speech with how any marine that falls at this point is foolish. Akainu simply tells Koby that seconds have been wasted, and that the Marines do not need someone like this, and gets ready to kill him.
Before Akainu could strike Koby, from out of nowhere, Shanks interferes, blocking Akainu's magma fist with his sword. He tells Koby that his few seconds of courage, which he was willing to throw away his life for, have changed the fate of the world. Law takes this opportunity to hurry up and escape. Kizaru is about to attack again, but he is stopped by Benn Beckman, threatening to shoot Kizaru if he "moves a muscle". Shanks picks up his straw hat that Luffy had dropped, and says that he has arrived to put an end to the war.

The Marines loudly exclaim the presence of the Red Hair Pirates, as they wonder how Shanks was able to arrive at Marineford so quickly, having fought with Kaidou the day before. Shanks then calls out to Buggy to give Luffy his straw hat, and convincing him that he will give a treasure map to his former crewmate in return. Buggy quickly complies and heads toward Trafalgar Law's submarine to give Law his straw hat. Lucky Roux then asks Shanks if he is sure he does not want to see Luffy again, since it's been ten years since they last met, while flashbacks of Shanks giving Luffy his straw hat are seen. Shanks answers he'd love to see Luffy again, but seeing him now would break their promise.
Akainu curses Shanks before Aokiji attempts to freeze the submarine over with Ice Age and Kizaru decides to attack using Yasakani no Magatama. The submarine attempts to dive to escape the ice and light attacks. Kizaru then dissuades the other Admirals to continue their attacks against the Heart Pirates, Luffy, and Jinbe for the time being. Meanwhile, Boa Hancock senses that they are still alive and forces orders for a Marine ship to chase the submarine, covering that "Straw Hat must be destroyed at all costs". Buggy yells at Shanks for lying about the treasure map, who replies that it was a spur of the moment. Buggy's followers comically admire his attitude towards Shanks, and swear loyalty to him once more. Buggy then thinks that if he stays with the Red Hair Pirates, he will be able to get off the island safely.
Shanks orders Marco to withdraw in order to stop encouraging the battle. While this happens, Dracule Mihawk walks away, telling the Marines that he did not agree to fight against Shanks, but only against Whitebeard. Shanks then threatens the Marines that if there are any others who wish to fight, then he and his crew will take care of them. Upon asking Blackbeard, the ex-Warlord quickly decides to postpone their battle, satisfied with getting what he wanted already, and shortly leaves.
Shanks tells the remaining Whitebeard Pirates and Marines to save face for him. The Whitebeard Pirates mourn over the losses of Ace and Whitebeard. The Marines, the Pacifistas and the Seven Warlords of the Sea stop in their tracks. Shanks then tells the Marines that the Whitebeard Pirates and their allies will do the mourning, as he does not want their deaths to be exploited to the world due to the broadcast. Sengoku quietly decides to accept Shanks' determination, taking responsibility for the Marines' actions, which is followed by Shanks' apology. Sengoku orders his subordinates to take care of the wounded and proclaims the end of the "War on the Summit of Marineford", the greatest war since the Great Age of Pirates.

Whitebeard's death is chimed around the world, leaving people to be glad that the great pirate had succumbed. Others turn to the path of piracy, ambitious about finding One Piece after Whitebeard confirmed its existence. Whitebeard's territorial islands are attacked, for example by the arrogant Brownbeard who slashes the flag.
Back at Marineford, the Eleven Supernova's (except Luffy, Law and Zoro) make their way through the rough ocean. Urouge and Apoo seem afraid for the new age, and Bonney is angry at an unspecified "him". Basil Hawkins tries to figure out why Luffy's chances of surviving are never 0%. Then, Kid is on his ship, pledging about the New World and the remaining Four Emperors: Red-Haired Shanks, Kaidou, and Big Mom. Then, back at the outer seas, Law's submarine has emerged and is followed by a Marine battleship. Bepo finds out that Boa Hancock chased the pirates, only worried about Luffy. Meanwhile, Law comes out of the surgery room, wiping blood off his hands. He says he did everything he could and Luffy is unbelievably damaged, and on the brink of death. Suddenly, the battleship has flood over with people from the New Kama and Emporio Ivankov. Ivankov and Law talk about Law's relationship with Luffy. Meanwhile the Heart Pirates see Bepo's weak will against the Pirate Empress. Back at the ruins of Marineford, Sengoku is informed about the situation in Impel Down.
Sengoku is told about the ways Blackbeard worked, telling the Level 6 prisoners to kill each other and the winners will join the Blackbeard Pirates. He also suspects that more Level 6 prisoners might have escaped when he is told that there are missing prisoners. Sengoku tells Brannew that they should distribute wanted posters immediately. Brannew then tells Sengoku of the Government's order to keep the incident quiet and Sengoku becomes infuriated. Then, explosions fill the backstreets of Marineford. Doflamingo received orders to get rid of Moria. Moria coughs up blood after being attacked by Pacifista under the command of Doflamingo. Moria asks Doflamingo if it was Sengoku's order to which Doflamingo responds "Try higher!".

The great war has ended two weeks ago, and pirates all over the four Blues head to the Grand Line and seek treasure. Whitebeard's death had the same reaction as the one of Gol D. Roger. Marine bases are attacked and back up requested.
In these two weeks, the escape crew consisting of Luffy, Jinbe and Heart Pirates had finally reached their destination: Amazon Lily. Emporio Ivankov was there for a short period of time as well, but decided to take his surviving New Kamas to Kamabakka Kingdom. Jinbe replies to Ivankov's departure by telling him he will take care of Luffy for now. Law, Jinbe and Hancock are seeing off Ivankov. The New Kama are saying their last goodbye, screaming that Luffy should hold on. And so the stolen battleship departed.
Jinbe and Law are talking about Luffy's medical condition, and Law tells Jinbe that if Luffy's wounds will open up, he will die. The Heart Pirates try to calm Luffy down. In the middle of the jungle on Amazon Lily, Luffy screams, yelling Ace's name.
At the Amazon Lily castle, Hancock is informed about the awakening of Luffy. Everyone seems to rejoice, particularly Hancock seeing as her object of affection is finally conscious. She wishes to see him at once, only for Elder Nyon to remind Hancock of her alliance to the Shichibukai. She tells her she will set a bad example for her people. Boa Sandersonia and Boa Marigold tell her sister she should eat. She then tells her people to start making the finest cuisine for Luffy. She probably misunderstood the advice from her sisters. Elder Nyon is seen thinking about Luffy, how he could possibly survive everything.
At the coast; Rock Wall Beach, the Heart Pirates have assembled. The pirates talk about the nice smell coming from the island. They note that once a man enters, he will be turned to stone forever. Then two of them start to talk about peeking into the country. In a comedic sense, Bepo asks if there would be female bears, only to get scolded. Not too far away is Trafalgar Law, sitting on a rock. He's looking curious at the Straw Hat he has in his hand. Luffy screams, blood drips down out of his mouth. He screams again. The blood drips on his hands, him making a fist. He breathes heavily, asking himself where he is. Talking about a dream, he looks into the sky. A flashback of Ace, dying on the battlefield, right in front of Luffy. Luffy yells, remembering Ace. Another short flashback, Ace telling Luffy he's sorry for not letting Luffy save him. Luffy looks at his hand, reminding him of looking at his hand back on the battlefield, when he picked up Ace at his blood overloaded back. He yells for something to disappear. He rampages and headbutts a rock into pieces, remembering Akainu smashing through Ace. He sees Ace screaming Luffy's name. Luffy screams again, having a short flashback of Akainu killing his brother. Luffy crushes the closest tree. He smashes through trees, tilts up rocks. Jinbe sees him going insane. Luffy falls to the ground, finally seeing Jinbe standing in front of him. Luffy looks angry, Jinbe remembers Ace, asking him to take care of Luffy. Jinbe tries to tell Luffy that the war is over, and its outcome. Luffy angrily tells him not to say anything. Luffy tearfully says he would've woken up if it was a dream. Luffy has a flashback of the war, right after saving him. The two had teamed up. Ace... Died, did not he?, is what Luffy asks of Jinbe, with a face full of tears. It's hard for Jinbe to say, but he still says it. Luffy screams and cries, having short flashbacks from his younger days. Luffy screams one more time, leaving Jinbe to tears.
A flashback, ten years ago, Garp has Luffy's face in his fist, telling him he will not become the Pirate King. He says Luffy and Ace are going to become the strongest Marines ever. Luffy is hurt, making Garp to say that he shouldn't have left him in that village. Garp knocks on a door, and tells Dadan to come out. An older woman and two men come to the door. Dadan is the woman, who tells Garp she cannot handle another one. Garp tells them she should take him, or she will disappear behind bars. Garp blackmails the woman, and Luffy gets spit on. They look away, seeing Ace. Luffy gets mad, but Garp slaps him. Luffy and Ace look at each other, full of aggression.

Young Luffy tried to adjust to his new home with Dadan; however, he struggled since the Mountain Bandits wished to use Luffy to do their errands. Luffy tried to go out into the woods around his new home to search for food and get to know Ace. However, Ace appeared to not want anything to do with Luffy at all. He then blocked every path that Luffy took to follow him, but Luffy found another way around to follow Ace as he came home injured from fighting wild animals. After three months of following Ace and taking on almost every tough animal in the woods, Luffy found Ace's hideout in Gray Terminal.
Also at Ace's hideout, there was a 10 year old boy named Sabo. Ace and Sabo had been stealing money and other valuables and hiding them so they could purchase a pirate ship of their own and become pirates someday. This excited Luffy since he too wanted to be a pirate. Angered that Luffy knows where their money was hidden, Ace and Sabo tied him to a tree and decided to kill him. After tying Luffy up, both struggled to decide which one of them should actually kill Luffy.
Before they could do anything, they heard the voices of some adults, who turned out be members of the Bluejam Pirates lead by Captain Bluejam. Porchemy and three other crewmembers were talking about Ace and Sabo and Ace was identified as the one who had stolen the money. As the boys hid, they noticed Luffy was now missing and the Bluejam Pirates had somehow taken him captive. The pirates started to interrogate him hoping to find out where their stolen money was hidden. Luffy pretended to not know anything, but Porchemy did not believe the obvious lie so he decided take Luffy away for further questioning. Ace and Sabo watched in stunned silence as the pirates carried Luffy away.

Porchemy took Luffy to an abandoned capsized ship where the Bluejam Pirates tried beating the location of Ace and Sabo out of him. After failing due to Luffy's Gomu Gomu no Mi abilities, Porchemy pulled out spiked gloves with which to beat the boy, and sent his men to look for Ace and Sabo in the meantime. At the same time, Ace and Sabo rushed to hide their treasure from Porchemy's men, who were unsuccessful at finding information from the locals. Later in the evening, Ace finished hiding all of their treasure, but Sabo returned to reveal that Luffy still had not betrayed their location. At the same time, Captain Bluejam grew tired of waiting, and Porchemy, knowing this, grew increasingly frustrated and moved to kill Luffy.
Ace and Sabo then came to Luffy's rescue, cutting his ropes. Sabo prepared to run, but Ace, having resolved not to run from any enemy, faced off against Porchemy, forcing Sabo to turn back and help defeat the pirate. When Captain Bluejam found the beaten Porchemy, he killed his underling for the failure. Afterwards, when questioned by Ace as to why he did not betray their location, Luffy responded that Ace was the only person he could rely on, and wanted him to live. Ace responded by calling Luffy a spoiled brat, which sparked an argument between them about crying at their age and being a pirate, until it was interrupted by Sabo, who now needed a place to hide outside the Gray Terminal.
They decided to have Sabo stay with Dadan as well (both Dadan and Sabo recognized each other's names and their infamy), and the three of them started fighting wild animals, the town punks, villains in the Gray Terminal, and pirates in the inlet, until they became known in the Goa Kingdom. One day, Dadan read in the newspaper about the World Nobles' upcoming visit to the kingdom.

The boys are unaware of that the World Nobles are coming and continue to train and run around the mountain, getting stronger by the day. It is then that more information about the geography of the land is revealed. Beyond the Gray Terminal there is an area known as the Great Gate which is part of a wall to another area called the Goa. Foosha Village is also part of this kingdom though it is largely forgotten due to the mountains around the area. The kingdom is broken up into sections: The Edge Town, which is still near the Gray Terminal through has buildings and is home to delinquents and hoodlums, the Town Center where the middle class live, and in the center guarded by another high wall, is the High Town where the royals and nobles live. Goa is said to be the most beautiful country in the East Blue even though it is segregated due to the class system.
The three boys sneak past the Great Wall one day during the regular trash dumping into the Gray Terminal, and go into the Town Center and pull a dine and dash. They escape out the window of a diner and run from the guards. However, one of the citizens recognizes Sabo and calls out to him, but Sabo just ignores the man. While running, they ask if Sabo heard the man calling his name. Sabo bluntly replied no and that they must have mistaken him for somebody else. Once back in the forest, Ace and Luffy demand to know if Sabo has been keeping anything from them. After a some goading, Sabo comes clean and reveals that he is actually a noble who ran away from home. The reason behind it was that his parents always pressured him and were more concerned about their finical and noble security and position than their son, making Sabo feel like a burden with no one in the world who cared for him. This is why he wants to become a pirate as he wishes to be free from their overbearing rule and write a book about his adventures. Ace and Luffy agree wholeheartedly, with Ace declaring that he'll be famous and he will prove that his life is worth something. Luffy also declares something, but it is not shown, only Ace and Sabo's shocked reactions. Ace pulls out some alcohol and pours some into three sake cups, claiming that from that day forward the three of them were brothers.
And from day to day they kept getting stronger, fighting pirates, taking baths together, eating together (not to mention shoving Dadan and crew out of the food), and saving one another during their trips across the mountains. Makino and Woop Slap would occasionally come by and drop off new clothes for them. They would fight against the wild animals of the forest and bring them home to eat, Garp would visit and beat them senseless. They built their own treehouse and lived in it and generally acted the way boys their age should act. But one day Sabo's father found them and, with the assistance of the Bluejam Pirates, captured the three with Sabo's father claiming that Ace and Luffy lured him away from home. Just as the Bluejam were about to beat Ace and Luffy. Sabo willingly decided to go back with his father in order to save them, though with great reluctance. Ace and Luffy could do nothing more but beg him to stay and come be a pirate with them as he was led away.

Whilst Luffy and Ace are in the custody of the Bluejam Pirates, Bluejam reveals that he wished he was born a noble, and that if they are truly brothers, they will not go looking for Sabo. Luffy and Ace join the Bluejam Pirates at the request of the Captain, and then carry cargo to marked locations in Gray Terminal with other pirates. Meanwhile Sabo, accompanied by his father, is being questioned for the crimes he has committed. His father urges him to place all the blame on Luffy and Ace to save his family's name, however Sabo refuses and is hit to the ground, and his father is forced to bribe the officer with a stack of bills.
Sabo returns home with his father, and is greeted by his mother and newly adopted brother Sterry. Sterry tells Sabo that Gray Terminal will be burned to ash along with its inhabitants, and that this had been planned for months in accordance with the arrival of the Inspection Unit, and Celestial Dragon. Sabo escapes from the family manor at night, and overhears a group of Royal Guards discussing the plan. It is revealed to Sabo in their discussion that the burning of Gray Terminal will proceed tomorrow, and that the Bluejam Pirates will be behind the act.
The next day Sabo escapes the manor and travels the streets of High Town, to find that all the nobles are aware of the impending massacre. His father sends out a search party, and soon two Royal Guards start to chase after Sabo. Meanwhile Bluejam reveals to Luffy and Ace that the cargo they had carried was oil and gunpowder, and that Gray Terminal will be set alight that day. Luffy and Ace react in outrage and are quickly apprehended by Bluejam's pirates, Bluejam informs them that they can no longer be left alive, then asks where their hoard of treasure is located.
Later that night, the inhabitants of Edge Town, the Town Center and Mt. Colubo all bear witness as the monstrous inferno rages. Royal Guards usher the citizens of Edge Town into the Town Center, while the inhabitants of Gray Terminal flee in terror, only to find that every exit is blocked by the blaze. The Bluejam Pirates stand just outside the Great Gate of Goa surrounded by the fire, as it is revealed that they will receive titles from the King, become nobles, and live in High Town as payment for their services. However the gate will not open for the pirates, as Bluejam realizes that their bargain had been betrayed, and that they have been left to die.
Meanwhile Luffy and Ace manage to cut themselves loose after being bound to a tree, whilst surrounded by the encroaching flames. In the Town Center, rumor had circulated amongst citizens that the Bluejam Pirates were responsible for the atrocity, in an attempt to halt the Inspection Unit and Celestial Dragons from visiting the island. Sabo is chased by the Royal Guards and is noted as being the last citizen remaining in Edge Town. While running he crashes and falls to the ground, but is helped to his feet by an unknown cloaked person. In a frenzy Sabo tells the person of the atrocity that the nobles had concocted, and that he is ashamed of being born a noble.
It is revealed that the cloaked individual is none other than Monkey D. Dragon, as he informs Sabo that he feels he understands his pain as he too was born in Goa Kingdom. Dragon then follows by saying that he still lacked the power to change it, and will listen and remember Sabo's story at the boy's plea. Luffy and Ace are seen fleeing from the engulfing flames, as an individual wearing high-heels informs Dragon that preparations have been made, in a dialect similar to that of Emporio Ivankov.

Bluejam recalls when the King of Goa Kingdom told him on a Den Den Mushi that he would make him a noble, as he realizes that the Nobles used the lie to manipulate him and his crew. Their ship bursts into flames and makes it impossible for any of the Bluejam Pirates to escape. The Nobles pretend that the fire is not happening and act just as stuck up as they always are as they explain why Gray Terminal is burning down. Bluejam then see's Ace and Luffy as the two are trying to escape. The pirates capture them and make Ace tell Bluejam where his stolen treasure is. As the two resist being captured and getting killed with them, one of the Bluejam Pirates pulls his sword and wounds Luffy around his forehead. As Luffy is about to be killed, Ace releases his angers and manages to take down all the Bluejam Pirates (with Haki).
Bluejam, surprised by Ace's strength, kicks him down and is ready to put a bullet through his skull. Dadan and her band of Mountain Bandits arrive just in time to protect Ace and Luffy since they are her responsibility. Dadan is seen with a battle axe striking down Bluejam. The bandits take Luffy back to their hideout to treat his wounds. Ace refuses to go and decides to stay and finish the fight with Bluejam. Dadan decides to stay in order to help Ace out.
Meanwhile the people at Gray Terminal lose hope and think their lives are over. Suddenly an explosion occurs and a road appears with no flames at all. It leads to a ship where Dragon, Kuma and Ivankov are waiting. Dragon welcomes the people to join him and the ship departs.
The next day, it appears that Dadan and Ace never came home from the night and soldiers of Goa Kingdom are beginning to clear away the ruins of Gray Terminal. Luffy, despite being injured decides to search for them. Sabo, still disgusted by his family and his newly adopted brother, still wonders if Ace and Luffy are okay. A ceremony begins as the World Nobles from the Grand Line are supposed to arrive soon. A ship appears with a lone child on board. It is Sabo and he is heading out to sea. He departs from Goa Kingdom, remarking how the weather is perfect for setting sail, and finally starts his dream of becoming a pirate.

The kingdom's residents try to get Sabo to turn back but he ignores them, unaware that one of Dadan's crew, Dogura, is in the crowd who instantly recognizes him. Sabo meanwhile comments that his greatest fear is getting caught up in the country and becoming a different person and he refuses to turn around. It's at that instance the Government ship carrying the Celestial Dragon arrives. Seeing it Sabo makes to move out of its path while those on board spot him. The crowd at the kingdom cheer for their coming, and even Sabo is marveled at how big the ship is. However the Celestial Dragon on board pulls out a hand-held cannon and fires on Sabo's ship, setting it ablaze.
Back at the bandits' hideout, Luffy tries once more to go search for Ace and Dadan but the bandits refuse to do so due to him still healing. They tell Luffy they know how he feels and that they sent Dogura to go check out the grounds. Back at the ceremony, the crowd look on in shock as Sabo's boat continues to burn. A servant tells the Celestial Dragon, Saint Jalmack, there was a child on the ship. But Jalmack comments that if he raised a pirate flag, then it did not matter, but is more angry that a commoner crossed his path. Sabo meanwhile tries to put out the flame, but Jalmack fires again and this time sinks the boat and presumably kills Sabo as well. The crowd continues to look on in horror at this turn of events while the officials order the remains to be cleaned up so as not to upset the Celestial Dragons further. Back at the hideout, Ace suddenly arrives carrying Dadan both bruised and burned but still alive much to the joy of everyone. Luffy especially hugs Ace who bops him on the head for crying about him.
Ace then explains that they managed to beat Bluejam but their escape route got cut off. Curly Dadan got burns on her body but the duo managed to escape into the middle forest. They hid in the riverbank till everything died down, then Ace stole some medicine from the town to keep Dadan alive. Dadan is then patched up and set down to rest as the day goes on. Dadan soon asks why Ace did not run which he explains that he was afraid if he did, he lose something important to him, in this case Luffy. Dadan soon realizes the similarities to him and Roger as she remembered Garp explained that Roger was the same way, not running because he was fearless but rather to keep the enemy from following after his crewmates. It was this trust that Garp decided to take care of Ace in secret.
Dogura soon returns and Luffy tells him of the good news of Dadan and Ace coming back. However this joy is short lived as Dogura tells the others of what happened to Sabo. Ace attacks him instantly thinking its a lie but Dogura, being a rogue, knows what It's like to not want to return to someplace they do not want to. Luffy begins to cry again and Ace starts to blame himself for not going back to get Sabo. He starts to run off with the intention of avenging Sabo. Dadan pins him to the floor, telling him that Sabo's enemy was the world and he does not have the power to fight it. If he did it now, that he will just die and be forgotten. If Ace wants to change the world, he must get strong enough to do so like his father. She then has the bandits tie Ace to a tree as he keeps struggling while Luffy continues to cry. Morning comes and Ace has cooled down when the bandits come to check on him. A mail bird arrives with a message from Sabo addressed to Luffy and Ace. The bandits cut Ace free so he can read it, which he does as he walks back to the cliff where they made their bond. The letter starts off with Sabo worrying about their safety but believes they are alright. He then explains that he is going out to sea, anywhere that is away from the country and hopes to become stronger and freer than any pirate on the sea. He then closes the letter by asking Ace to take care of their younger brother, Luffy. As Ace finishes reading the letter, he stands on a cliff next to the sea and cannot help himself but cry for his fallen friend and sworn brother.

Luffy is lying with his face on the ground on the cliff where Ace read Sabo's letter. He is crying, and Ace punches him in the head, scolding him for his behavior, saying that their hidden treasure is gone, and that there's no point in having treasure if it cannot be protected. Luffy tearfully cries out his will to become stronger in order to protect the ones he loves, and then begs Ace to survive with Ace's response being another punch. Ace then promises him that he will not die since he has a weak little brother to take care of. Ace and Luffy then vow to live without regret. He then says that what killed Sabo was the "opposite of freedom" and that the two remaining brothers must obtain freedom and become pirates, even if that means making a lot of enemies along the way, including Garp. The two then agree to set sail on their 17th years and become pirates, as Sabo told them that children born from Noble families truly obtain their title at the age of 18, and he wanted to leave Goa at 17. Elsewhere, on the night the World Noble reached Goa Kingdom: there are two brief scenes of Zoro's and Kuina's training in Shimotsuki Village, and on the coast Dragon is boarding his ship, with one of his men saying that noticing that he brought someone severely wounded that his men quickly attend to and Dragon then asks about the rations with his men telling the dojo being told about obtaining new supplies. He then orders his men to set sail back for Baltigo.
As months pass, the Gray Terminal is being reconstructed by the garbage dumping resuming as usual. Ace and Luffy are training again, and Luffy is trying to develop his "Gomu Gomu no Pistol" technique, but ends up hitting himself, to which Ace laughs and remarks that rubber is not for fighting. The two start arguing over the utility of the Gomu Gomu no Mi, but are interrupted by someone whom they think is Sabo, but in reality is nothing more than a rock; they are just remembering their beloved brother. Luffy states that Sabo was really a good brother, to which Ace angrily replies in a comical way, asking his brother if he wanted him to die instead. They return to Dadan's hideout and build two rudimentary shacks they name "Ace's country" and "Luffy's country", much to Dadan's surprise, as they want to survive alone and get stronger. Following this, the two adventure in the jungle and Luffy runs across a fierce bear. Ace refuses to help him, because they must grow stronger alone, but when the animal severely injures Luffy offscreen, he desperately cries for him. Ace managed to bring Luffy back to the Bandit hideout, where he was treated by Magura. Ace huddles up against the wall, telling Luffy that he is sorry. Some time later, Makino pays a visit to Ace, and he tells her of his intentions to meet Red Haired Shanks and introduce himself to the man who once saved his brother's life. Ace then asks her the proper way of making an introduction. He is irritated because Makino keeps smiling.
Ace and Luffy are then seen escaping from a restaurant owner after eating without paying the bill (an attitude Ace will show again in the future). They then stop in the middle of the street and thank the restaurant owner for the food. Later, they are once again seen training with each other. They fight and defeat a bear, then they chase hoodlums and fight a giant centipede. Garp is seen again, one more time beating up his grandsons. The two "brothers" are seen together one more time, and happily jumping from a building.
Seven years later Ace, at age 17, is finally setting sail: he is on a little boat with a triangular sail, and sports many of his trademark objects: his hat with the two smilies, the orange belt with his initial on the buckle, the armband on the left arm and his green bag with a black pattern on it. He happily says goodbye to the people on the shore: Luffy, who is now 14, Makino, Woop Slap, Dogura, Magura, and the other bandits, who wish him good luck in return. Dadan is not there, she remained in the hideout, where her subordinates inform her that Ace is already gone, to which she apparently remains impassive, saying that Garp will be angry with her and that Ace is always "an ungrateful little pissant". However, as the bandits tell her that Ace left her a message, "Thank you", she bursts into tears, showing off her sadness.
Luffy tries his "Gomu Gomu no Pistol" move again, this time against a rock. Finally, he shows off his capabilities, shattering the rock to pieces with his mighty rubber punch. He rejoices, having gotten stronger. He then receives a visit from Dogura, who shows him a newspaper: it's Ace, his crew, and his ship, already famous. Luffy is happy, and states that he will not let Ace surpass him.
Three more years pass, and a finally 17-year-old Luffy is ready to set sail himself. He says goodbye to the Bandits, who cannot go to Foosha Village because of its inhabitants being afraid of them. He thanks them, and then tells Dadan that he hates Mountain Bandits, to which she gets angry and shouts at him, but he then says he likes them, the woman then bursts into tears as she did 3 years ago after before for Ace's departed. Luffy is then seen on a dinghy in Foosha Village. One of the citizens asks him to take one of their old fishing boats, but he refuses, content with his little boat. To which they then call him an idiot for setting out on a dingy. Luffy then looks into the sky. He then cries Sabo's name, telling his deceased brother of his departure. He then labels each of them in the order they departed. He then says he's not gonna lose to them. The villagers (wondering who Luffy's talking about) ask what he's talking about to which he states it's a challenge. After saying goodbye to his friends, he sets sail, and he (offscreen) quickly defeats the Lord of the Coast with a single punch, a feat commented on by Dadan and Dogura, who are hidden behind a wall. Luffy then cries out he will become the Pirate King, and so the flashback ends, and One Piece's storyline begins from here...
On Amazon Lily, before the eyes of a tearful Jinbe, a distraught Luffy says "Pirate King.....yeah right", and cries out that he's weak, falling on his knees and bringing his hands to his face.

Garp returns to Luffy's hometown only to hear that Makino's bar has been over-run by vicious mountain bandits. Those mountain bandits ended up being Dadan and her subordinates. Dadan sees Garp and hits him with a wooden bat. Makino steps between Dadan and Garp before she could attack again. Makino then states that "Garp could not save both Ace and Luffy even if he wanted to" and "Garp is the one truly suffering". But as soon as she says that Dadan says with tears in her eyes "No... The one truly suffering the most...!! Is Luffy!!" Then Makino has a flash back of the very first time she met Ace and runs off in a face full of tears. As soon as she leaves Garp states that Luffy is alive. For now. The final words that come out of Dadan's mouth is that she will always support Luffy no matter what he does from that day forward and that he better not lose no matter what.
The Whitebeard and Red Haired pirate crews bid a final farewell to Edward Newgate and Portgas D. Ace at their funeral where Marco thanks Red Haired Shanks for everything he has done for him and his crew. Shanks states, "Although he was my enemy, he deserved even my respect. Even Sengoku knows that". With that said Shanks and his crew leave silently. Shanks says to Luffy in his mind that he must move on by relieving his emotions and crying everything out, even if he is a man.
Jinbe tells Luffy to stop beating himself up over Ace's actions but Luffy refuses and tries to punch him but misses. Jinbe then pins Luffy to the ground where Luffy bites him and Jinbe finally gets mad at Luffy and pins him to a rock. There he says that right now his thoughts and path are over-shadowed by grief but someday he will find something he will never stop fighting for. At that point he lets Luffy go and Luffy takes a while to think. When he finally reaches his answer his face is drowned in tears and admits that he still has his loyal and faithful crew and that he wants to go back to them as soon as possible, no matter what.

The Heart Pirates spot someone killing a Sea King, who then swims to the shore near the Heart Pirate's location. The person revealed himself to be Rayleigh, much to their surprise, and even more so when he makes it known that he knows Luffy is on the island too. Hancock, along with her sisters and Nyon, come to bring Luffy food just as Luffy and Jinbe meet up with Rayleigh. The two also notice that the Heart Pirates have left which Rayleigh confirms, telling Luffy that Law said to take it easy for two more weeks. Hancock's group soon arrives at Luffy's location. Nyon is surprised to see Rayleigh. It is then revealed that Elder Nyon and the Gorgon Sisters are friends with Rayleigh and Shakky. When Jinbe sees the food, Hancock glares at him, saying that the food was meant only for Luffy, but then allowed him to take only a little. Luffy and Jinbe begin to eat. Rayleigh delivers a letter to the Boa Sisters from Shakky. Rayleigh also mentions that he figured out Luffy's location thanks to Kuma after the battle on Sabaody and also to Shakky's intuition after the Marineford War.
Rayleigh then asks Luffy if he plans on returning to Sabaody, which Luffy confirms. However, Rayleigh mentions that if they go back, the whole incident could start all over again. He then says he has a plan and it is up to Luffy if he wants to go along with it.
We then shift to island Greenstone in the Boin Archipelago, where Usopp, now fat from eating the island's natural food, is trying to fight his way past a giant horned beetle despite the pleas of his companion, Heracles. He gets knocked down and Heracles mentions that the further out from the center of the island he goes, the tougher the creatures are, making it impossible to escape. Usopp does not listen though and takes off again just as Sea Kings, distracted by the smell of the island, start coming in. Heracles notices the island beginning to move and warns Usopp to cling to something as we find out the island is actually a large carnivorous plant called the Stomach Baron. Usopp is nearly eaten but Heracles saves him and asks what is wrong, having noticed that Usopp's mood had changed since reading a newspaper that a news coo dropped earlier. Usopp answers that he found out about Ace's death and is trying desperately to get off the island to help Luffy through his pain. Otherwise, he could not call himself a member of the Straw Hats.
Meanwhile, in the Torino Kingdom, Chopper is all set to leave, having helped the natives and the birds of the island get along. It turns out the reason the birds attacked the natives was because they thought they were stealing their eggs. In actuality, the natives just wanted the plants near their trees. Chopper also found out about what happened to Ace and wished to get off the island to treat Luffy's wounds. Bidding the island's residents farewell, Chopper heads off on one of the birds. They pass a News Coo and Chopper grabs a paper from it. He finds something about Luffy in the paper and begins to panic.

In the castle on Kuraigana Island, Perona is crying desperately at the news regarding Moria's death during the battle at Marineford. Mihawk who coincidentally appears to be the owner of the castle, tells the girl that at the very end of the battle, Moria was still alive.
The scene switches to the woods around the castle. Zoro is fighting a group of heavily armed and armored baboons called Humandrills, who are apparently deadly fighters. The baboons are scared by Mihawk's sudden appearance. The world's strongest swordsman remarks that Zoro has not gotten too far from the castle, and that the little boat he gave him is now unusable. Zoro angrily remarks that he will use the boat's wood to help him swim, and that he must reach Luffy as soon as possible. Mihawk remarks that his feelings are noble, but that "those guys" aren't weak: the baboons possess the capability of learning by observing human behavior, and the war that took place on the island seven years ago taught the animals how to use weapons. He then invites Zoro back to the castle, but Zoro refuses, saying he is leaving the island.
The scene switches to Weatheria, where Nami is prisoner of the weather scientists, having tried to rob them. She calls Haredas. She also had read Luffy news and wants to rejoin him as soon as possible. She begs the scientists to let her go, to which they get touched and set her free. She rapidly grabs both Haredas and the goods she had stolen and runs away.
In the meantime on Karakuri Island, Franky, who has learned from the inhabitants that the genius Vegapunk once lived here and is the pride of the islanders, has forced the entrance of the inventor laboratory in search of an Ice breaker boat. Being chased by marines and the animal cyborgs Vegapunk had created, he rushes into the labs amazed by the priceless blueprints he sees. Franky then notices a large button with a skull on it and, mistaking the symbol for a Jolly Roger, presses it despite having being warned of the existence of a self-destruct button. A huge explosion erupts and the event becomes known around the world as the "Nightmare of Baldimore".
Meanwhile in Namakura Island. Brook is surrounded by his new friends, who thank him for creating a song that made them feel brave enough to fight against the Longarm Tribe: the three bandits who kidnapped the girl are now locked in a cage. The skeletal musician then says he has learned of Luffy's sad conditions as well, and he needs to reunite with his captain. The Longarms commented that they wanted to bring some of the cultists to their land and make a show of them for money because of their single-jointed arms, to which the leader of Harahettania comments that he wants to make a show of them because of their double-elbowed arms. Brook states that that would not be right, as it would make his friends no different than their enemies, and he orders the three Longarms to be freed, saying that should they cause troubles again, he will come back and eat their hearts. The freed Longarms run away, saying they will not return, and just as Brook is saying the matter is over, he finds out he has been tied up and is being carried away by the three men, who want to make a show of him in their country, as a moving skeleton could make them rich. The cultists, instead of chasing them, prepare another summoning to save Brook.

On Tequila Wolf, Bunny Joe explains to Robin that she is deemed "The Light of the Revolution" by the Revolutionaries who saved her, who were also ordered by Dragon to protect her once located. They want her to meet Dragon, but Robin says that she must reach her captain and worries about the safety of her own crew. The Revolutionaries then agree to bring her back to Luffy. During the journey, a crow delivers a newspaper to Joe, who then gives it to Robin. She reads the latest news in the paper, in which she sees something "amusing" that made her laugh.
In the meantime, Ivankov has returned to Kamabakka Queendom with Inazuma and his other subordinates. Here he meets a once again normal Sanji, but refuses to believe he is part of Luffy's crew because he does not recognize Sanji's wanted poster. After arguing with the queen and getting beaten up by him, Sanji manages to learn the news regarding Luffy in a newspaper, being astonished by it. Right after speaking to Sanji, Iva is summoned via a Den Den Mushi from Baltigo, by none other than Dragon himself. The two companions speak to each other for the first time in a while, their main subjects being Dragon's identity being revealed to the world, Luffy's most recent actions, and last but not least, Kuma.
Kuma, who in the meantime appears before Shakky, Hatchan, Camie, Pappag, Duval, and his gang, who have just prevented the Coffee Monkeys from stealing the Thousand Sunny. Shakky, believing him to still be an ally, is not afraid, unaware that the Shichibukai lost his free will and became a weapon for the World Government.
Arabasta is having some problems with pirates, with Chaka and Pell reporting to King Cobra and Igaram. Vivi is seen reading a newspaper with Karoo at her side, commenting on Luffy's still unknown action as well.
In a city on an unknown island in the Grand Line, Crocodile and Mr. 1 are talking about the latest news. The former Shichibukai says he is going back to the New World, and he invites Daz Bonez to come with him, an offer he accepts without hesitation.
At the same time, Buggy is reunited with his original crew on an unknown island in the Grand Line. All of his subordinates are glad to see him, and both Mohji and Cabaji confirm their status as leading crewmembers to Impel Down's prisoners, who have joined Buggy and his old crew. Mr. 3 informs Buggy that a carrier bat brought him a message from the World Government, saying that he is not going to believe what is written on it.

In Mary Geoise, the Five Elders are talking about Luffy's actions. They wondered about Luffy's connection to Rayleigh and regretted about making Jinbe a Shichibukai. They also speak about Blackbeard taking out one of the Supernovas, and that only the Yonko and the remains of the Whitebeard Pirates are capable of preventing his progression. They discuss about replacing the three Shichibukai that were lost (Jinbe, Teach, and Moria).
In the same place, World Government Commander-in-Chief Kong talks to Sengoku about his and Garp's "holding back" in Marine ranks. The now former Fleet Admiral Sengoku recommends Admiral Aokiji as his successor.
In Marineford, which is being rebuilt, Aokiji and Smoker are talking first about Luffy's actions, and later about Smoker's possible new employment in a New World Marine base, G-5, which is said to be full of problems. The Commodore's wish to be transferred there stems from his will to chase Luffy. In the medical center, a doctor informs Koby that what he heard during the battle was surely Haki. Finally, it is revealed what Luffy has done by Brannew: he came with Jinbe and Rayleigh to Marineford. The trio stole a Marine ship and circled around Marineford. Luffy proceeds to enter the plaza alone to ring the Ox Bell 16 times, with many photographers taking his picture to put in their newspapers including one that reveals Luffy getting a new tattoo much like Ace's tattoo. Brannew interprets these acts as a declaration of war.
In the New World, on an unnamed island, Kid and his crew are talking about Luffy's behavior. Killer tells the others about the symbolic meaning it has for the Marines, being rung 8 times to conclude the previous year and another 8 times for the start of the next year. Kid then wonders if Luffy is saying that he will make the new era himself. Outside their camp there are a lot of captured and defeated men, who are then killed and crucified by Kid using his Devil Fruit power. The Supernova laughed about their low strength and their desire to go back home after their total defeat.
Somewhere else, also in the New World, Capone Bege's ship is pulled towards the sky by a strange structure, similar to a dark globe, with what looks like rocky formations protruding from it.
Back in the Grand Line, Luffy is traveling on a Kuja ship with Jinbe and Rayleigh, hoping that his crewmates understood the message he sent them by ringing the Ox Bell. On the various islands they were sent to, all of them (except for Zoro) apparently understand what he wanted them to know.
In the meantime, in Foodvalten, Hawkins and his crew are confronting Brownbeard and his men. The Supernova casually angers Brownbeard asking what his name is. Hawkins ignores Brownbeard's mumbling about his glory. He unsheathes his sword and prepares to fight.
The last Supernova shown is Urouge with his crew for the first time not having his trademark smile, unable to dock their ship on an island in the New World because of the continuous lightning being emitted from it. A smaller vessel approaches them, with an old woman offering to give them some umbrellas.

Somewhere near Sabaody Archipelago, Trafalgar Law is discussing with his crew about not wanting to enter the New World yet, saying that in any case the One Piece will not disappear and that the others are free to fight each other without him. He then tells his men to follow the orders he gave them, in order for him to take the position he wants, to which his crew happily rejoices.
On an unnamed Winter Island in the New World, X Drake and his crew confront the ones guarding the island, which according to them is one of Kaidou's favorites, and taking their heads would anger the powerful pirate. Eager for a chance to confront the Emperor, Drake turns into his dinosaur form and gets ready to fight.
Somewhere else in the New World, on a Spring Island, Scratchmen Apoo and his crew are fleeing from some big, striped boars. They become quite surprised when, trying to jump off a cliff, they continue running up into the air with the boars still chasing them.
On a burning island in the New World, the Blackbeard Pirates are drinking and relaxing on their raft, which according to Teach is breaking apart, so they are waiting to meet the Marines for a battleship in exchange for Jewelry Bonney, who has been taken hostage by them. Teach approaches her, teasing her and telling her that he will set her free if she becomes his woman, to which Bonney responds by kicking him with her free legs. Van Augur informs his captain that the Marines do not seem willing to do the exchange, as Akainu is leading them. The Blackbeard Pirates flee in a hurry, leaving behind their chained prisoner. After asking her about the fled crew, the Admiral tells Bonney that he was worried when she escaped the World Government, but that now the problem is solved. Bonney angrily cries out that she will never forgive them.
In the meantime, in Mary Geoise, Doflamingo is teasing some unknown representative of the World Government, telling him that Moria, while on the verge of death, disappeared suddenly, to which the other replies that that's not a funny story. Doflamingo retorts that being a pirate, he could leave the Shichibukai anytime he wishes.
In Torino Kingdom, Chopper has returned wearing a mask and claiming to be a friend of himself instead, "Chopper Mask", but the inhabitants recognize him. He asks them to let him stay on the island a while longer in order to study some plants he saw, which the locals claim can be made into potent medicines. They gladly accept, and one of them shows him the well-supplied library. Chopper realizes that despite that the inhabitants initially looked stupid they are in fact a knowledgeable country. Chopper remembers some moments from his past, and then cries out to Luffy that he will get stronger even if it requires becoming a real monster.
In Kamabakka Kingdom, Sanji and Ivankov are eating. Sanji notes both the taste and the power granted by the food they are eating, to which Ivankov replies that it is a dish called "Attack Cuisine", which makes peoples' bodies stronger and hearts purer. Sanji wonders if it is really possible to train the physique just by eating. He then asks Ivankov to teach him this art, but the Okama refuses, saying that its 99 recipes can only be learned by someone who has made his heart like a maiden's and learned Newkama Kenpo. Sanji angrily states that he is a man made to love women, to which Ivankov appreciates his rationality and gives him a challenge: he will have to steal the recipes from their respective masters, while at the same time escaping the other residents of the island who will be trying day and night to put a dress on him. If he wins, he will even be granted a ship; but if he loses, Ivankov wonders if he will be able to remain a man.
After thinking about his past as well, and promising Luffy he will help him to become the Pirate King as his cook, Sanji accepts the challenge.

Nami fools the citizens of Weatheria once again and decides to stay behind to study the weather patterns of the New World such as a lightning rain on one of the islands. Haredas points out that weather in the New World is so dangerous that one needs to have good navigational skills to survive the weather of the New World. Nami talks about how reckless Luffy is and how he has no sense of direction. So Nami insists she must learn how to navigate through the most dangerous weather in the New World so she can help him become the Pirate King. Nami also begs Haredas to also teach her about the Weather Balls they create, however, Haredas is a little hesitant as he feels the invention should not be used as a weapon. Though this does not stop her from smirking about the idea.
Brook is now behind bars in a cage and he is on display as a freak show. The Longarm people of Kenzan Island get a little frustrated as Brook is motionless reading the newspaper and thinking about the moment when Luffy recruited him to the Straw Hat Pirates. He tries thinking of how he can help Luffy. Brook then comes to the decision that he is going to be more useful for Luffy and then falls over at a 40 degree angle and suddenly gets up. He is seen wielding a guitar in front of the Longarm people and begins playing a song called "Bone to be Wild".
Robin departs on a ship with the Revolutionaries. And for once, the Revolutionaries appear to be a group of people who actually hold no hatred for Robin, as she has been used to being hated by people since she was said to be a demon child. The Revolutionaries set sail for Baltigo because their leader Monkey D. Dragon wishes to meet Robin. The Revolutionaries ask Robin to get inside the ship where it is warm however Robin chooses to stay due to her nature of not trusting anyone. The Revolutionaries then give her lots of blankets and take all the warm food they made for her outside so she could be comfortable. In the end, Robin decides she was going to get stronger not for herself, but for Luffy as well, she even seemed surprised that she was thinking that way.
The Marines are now looking for Franky for causing the biggest disaster on Karakuri Island. The people on the island confuse Franky for a cyborg gorilla and the Marines begin taking that into consideration, believing that it might have been a cyborg gorilla that caused the explosion of Dr. Vegapunk's lab. Franky is in the part of Vegapunk's lab uncovered by the explosion. He begins studying everything Dr. Vegapunk had made blueprints for, especially the weapons. So, Franky then decides to live in the lab and learn about all the technology that Dr. Vegapunk designed so he could help improve the Thousand Sunny's battle capabilities as well as his own. He would use the locals' houses to store his cola and only come down when he was running low. The two locals he was staying with, however, are frightened by his current look (which is the result of being in the explosion of Dr. Vegapunk's first lab). So, Franky decides to wear a tiger rug over his face so he will not look weird. The rug gets too close to the flame and catches fire. Franky runs out of the lab completely on fire and screaming. The Marines pursuing him see him run out of the lab, but to them he looks like a fiery tiger demon and frightens them into running away crying. What the Marines saw would come to be known as the "Legend of the Sacred Burning Beast of Baldimore".
Usopp now realizes that he must get stronger and indeed he must lose weight. He also realizes that Luffy does not always win the battles like he always thought. So, he decides to become Heracles' pupil so he can get stronger. Heracles, who is rather excited about the idea, begins teaching Usopp about the secret to surviving on the Boin Archipelago, which happens to be a plant called Pop Green that possess instantaneous growth and hold various other uses. So, Usopp decides that in order for Luffy to become the Pirate King, he was going to become the true Sniper King.

Zoro began begging to Mihawk to teach him the ways of the sword. Mihawk, who was rather disgusted by Zoro's begging, wished to get rid of him thinking he had overestimated his abilities. Zoro informed Mihawk that he defeated all the Humandrills and that he only needs to defeat him. Mihawk, who was rather surprised by all this, found the request to teach the swordsman that wants to surpass him someday absurd. However, Mihawk understood that Zoro wanted to get stronger for Luffy, and not for his own ambitions. Mihawk then decided to begin training him once his body was healed. Then Zoro, who was now bandaged up again, told Perona what Luffy's tattoo meant. The tattoo reads 3D2Y. Zoro explains the original plan was for the Straw Hats to meet up in three days but now it is in two years (hence why the 3D, standing for three days, is crossed out), so all the Straw Hat Pirates in their various locations all got the message and understand they will meet up in two years at the Sabaody Archipelago.
The story then went back to a few days earlier in the Calm belt on an island called Rusukaina Island. Luffy and Rayleigh, along with the Amazon Lily tribe and Jinbe had arrived on the island. Jinbe departed and he and Luffy thanked each other for all the other's help and Jinbe told Luffy he will be waiting for him at Fish-Man Island. Hancock wished to give Luffy food as he began two year training session with Rayleigh on the island but Rayleigh, turning down the offer, informs Hancock that the reason they came here was solely for Luffy to learn survival skills on the 48 season island that changes every week. This made Hancock get angry at Rayleigh, but she calmed down when Rayleigh told her it was for Luffy's own good. Hancock then left the island with the Amazon Lily tribe. Rayleigh then explained that the island is uninhabited but there once was a civilization that died off due to the adversity of the island's natural environment and that the island currently has about five hundred or so animals living on it that Luffy would have a tough time defeating.
Rayleigh explained the ability of Haki and why Luffy must learn to strengthen it. He explained all 3 types of Haki while he took down a giant elephant without physically touching it as a demonstration for each type. He then explained Kenbunshoku Haki, (which is known as Mantra on Skypiea) or the ability to sense the opponent's presence and accurately predict their next move. He explained Busoshoku Haki, which is the power to "armor" one's body with haki, enabling one to attack without touching someone as well as nullify Devil Fruit abilities, particularly allowing one to physically touch a Logia-type Devil Fruit user. And finally, he explained the third type called Haoshoku Haki, which is the power of intimidation.
This power is rare and only a select few people can learn it. Rayleigh explained that Luffy must learn to control this power since he could intimidate innocent people if he cannot control it. So Rayleigh decided that in two years, with Luffy's potential, he is going to make him learn the basics of all three forms of Haki and as Luffy gets stronger, he will decide which one he should strengthen on his own. Luffy then leaves his straw hat and vivre card behind on a rock and claims that the pirate "Straw Hat Luffy" is going on vacation.

The chapter starts with Luffy leaving Rusukaina with the help of Boa Hancock. The scene then switches to Sabaody Archipelago where the locals discuss the events that happened there two years ago including the names of Supernovas who were making a name in the New World; the main topic was the reappearance of the Straw Hat Pirates who disappeared two years ago and their return at the archipelago, distributing flyers trying to recruit new members with the intention of strengthening their crew and embarking to the New World.
Meanwhile, Brook after two years has become a music superstar with the three men of the Longarm Tribe as his managers, he plans to hold his last concert tour at Sabaody stating that this will be his "finest concert ever".
While on the beach Sanji (his hair parted on the opposite side and sporting a goatee) appears and is overjoyed to see real women on the shores, after two years of training, bidding the okamas a hasty farewell as he runs off to find Nami and Robin first. At a certain bar a female with long hair in a bikini top and skinny pants talks to the bartender about the Marines changing the location of their headquarters. She witnesses the fake Straw Hat Luffy and his comrades shoot and turn away a pirate with a bounty of 55,000,000; the fake Luffy then orders more ale and wants the long haired woman to come join him as well. The locals at the bar all assume she would not refuse knowing that the pirate had a reputation yet were all surprised when she flat out refused him not once but two times. When the fake Nami went over and tried to make the woman do as they say, a stranger who suddenly appeared and sat beside the woman unleashed plant monsters that grabbed the fake Nami causing an uproar with the Fake Straw Hats with the plant tendrils wrapping around them.
The man, smiling, asks the woman if she would drink with him. She smiled back and hugged him tightly stating that he has gotten manly, revealing herself as Nami and the man as Usopp (who looks buffer than his lean build from two years ago), they make a dash out of the bar when a thundercloud appears electrocuting the pirates in the bar. Nami said that she also improved and gained some new technology. The Fake Luffy curses after them and orders his crew to find the ones responsible for going against him and kill them.
At Shakky's Bar in Grove 13, Shakky and Rayleigh were present with Sanji revealing to him that Zoro arrived first followed by Franky and that both were on the Thousand Sunny. Nami arrived third but she went out shopping due to boredom, Usopp and Chopper were fourth and fifth, Brook was sixth, arriving just before Sanji, then lastly Sanji himself. Sanji was overjoyed with the news and wondered how much Nami had changed while Rayleigh comments that the crew arriving at the island independently is an incredible feat. Back in the city, Robin avoids some suspicious men who are ordered to capture her at all costs. She now wears a long sari-like skirt with a zipped shirt and sunglasses, much like the local women. Robin reads some recruitment flyers from the fake Straw Hats and a poster of Brook's concert, wondering what is going on.
Chopper, meanwhile, was following the fake Zoro, Sanji, and Robin who recognized him from his wanted poster and decided to bring him back to their crew. The suspicious men who were following Robin mistook the fake for the real one and captured her, with Chopper, believing the fake to be the genuine Robin, exclaiming that the men are kidnappers. At the Marine Branch G-1 (formerly the old Marine HQ) Marineford, everyone was in chaos after hearing about the reappearance of the Straw Hat Pirates on Sabaody Archipelago. They intend to summon a force to go and capture them. The scene switches back to Sabaody, where the fake Luffy shoots a couple whom he mistook for Usopp and Nami. The locals are too frightened to go against them because of their tendency to shoot anyone who gets in their way. Soon, a skinny man under an animal skin carrying a large bag bumps into the fake Luffy but simply apologizes before leaving. Angered, the fake Luffy shouted at the man, who turns around, revealing himself to be none other than the real Luffy.

The rest of the Straw Hats are shown in further detail. At the start, there is a flashback where Luffy is shown on the Kuja Pirates' ship prior to landing on Sabaody. Boa Hancock advises Luffy to be discreet and not arouse attention, since his face is widely known due to the events that took place two years ago. The flashback ends with Luffy saying goodbye to the Kuja Pirates and promising Hancock that he will see her again (she again interprets this as a marriage proposal, which Nyon quickly corrects). The next scene returns to the confrontation between the fake Straw Hats and Luffy. The fake Luffy brags about his 400,000,000 bounty to the real Luffy and demands that Luffy beg on his knees to be forgiven for knocking him over. Luffy excuses himself and begins to leave. The fake Luffy quickly decides to shoot him, but Luffy easily dodges the bullet and renders them unconscious using his Haki.
Meanwhile, Robin is shown arriving at the Thousand Sunny, commenting that they left the ship alone for two whole years. She is then greeted by the new and improved Franky, who says that this might be his first and probably last improvement on his body. After a few topics being discussed by the two (like Robin being the 8th member to arrive and Rayleigh's coating on the ship), Franky comments on Brook's newfound success and wonders whether or not he will actually return to the "pirate life".
Brook is shown in concert, singing. The chapter progresses as the fake Straw Hats regain consciousness. Fake Luffy hardens his resolve to find Luffy, Nami, and Usopp. However, Fake Luffy is informed that Fake Robin has been kidnapped. He decides to leave her behind, which angers Chopper, who is still under the impression that they are the real Straw Hats. Chopper storms off to find Robin. As he walks away, Marines are revealed behind the corner, convinced that the fakes are real due to Chopper's presence among them. They report to G1 that the Straw Hats are alive. Sentomaru hears of this and decides to take himself, PX-5, and PX-7 to Sabaody. The chapter ends with Sanji witnessing a one-eyed Zoro emerging from the ocean, having cut in half a coated pirate ship that he had accidentally boarded.

Chopper gallops through Sabaody Archipelago's Grove 35, in his reindeer form, yelling wildly for Robin (the fake one) while also questioning the actions of the Straw Hats (the fake ones). He abruptly stops as Usopp and Nami ride by on one of the Archipelago's Bon Chari calling to him. Finally reunited on the island, they embrace as old friends. Both Usopp and Nami comment about how big and fluffy Chopper has become as he tries to separate the fake Nami from the real one before him in his mind. Catching himself, Chopper informs them of Robin's kidnapping. Revelations abound as all three ride the chari, Chopper is brought up to speed on what is going on such as the kidnapped Robin being a fake, as the real one would not be easy to catch, after all those years evading capture it'd be unlike her to get shoved into a bag and kidnapped, and the Straw Hats he met before were also fakes. Chopper, though, is elated by the idea of how famous he is, motivating him to want to create a signature. Usopp comments that he has already created his own, while Nami adds that they are famous in a bad way.
Meanwhile, the fake Sanji and Zoro chase after the runaway Chopper (the real one), after their captain realizes that he was the real one, only to run into Luffy (also the real one) whose identity they still do not know. After his last run-in, as per Hancock's suggestion, he finally dons the fake mustache given to him, and mistakes the fakes for the real ones though they question whether he was the "kid" they were looking for.
Back in Grove 41, Zoro states his intention to fish at the beach. Sanji responds by yelling at him, explaining they do not have time to search for a "wayward marimo" (should Zoro's incredible talent for getting lost remain in tact) and that they, together, should head to the ship as everyone will gather there soon. Turning away from Sanji, Zoro complains to himself that #7 thinks he is better than #1. The numbers are a reference to the order the Straw Hats arrived on the archipelago, hence Zoro's complaint. Sanji, now beyond annoyance from Zoro's comment, starts a fight.
In Grove 46, a Marine is spying on the new rookies, trying to join the "Straw Hats". He confirms four of them: "Gashed" Albion worth 92,000,000, Lip "Service" Doughty at 88,000,000, as well as "Wet-hair" Caribou and "Blood Splatterer" Coribou, with bounties of 210,000,000 and 190,000,000, respectively. As the Marine is speaking on the Den Den Mushi, Caribou sneaks up on him. The Marine falls back on the ground in horror as Caribou and Coribou intimidate him. Frightened, the Marine reaches for his gun while the enemy's back is turned, causing Caribou to stab him with a spear. Further increasing the severity of their actions, Coribou starts digging a live grave as his older brother prays to God for the "sins this Marine has committed". Tensions rise as an off panel voice yells, "That's as far as you go, Caribou!"
Voices roar as the fake Luffy boosts his followers' morale. He appropriates them as extensions of himself, his "hands and legs". He orders them to find and crush the real Straw Hats that humiliated him. In the midst of his rant, fake Sanji and Zoro return with the real Luffy. Luffy speaks to the fakes, believing them to be the real thing, but notices that the two get along better than he remembers. The fakes call for their captain's attention, and his target, Luffy, stands before him.
The scene then changes to Brook's farewell concert, where the crowd is yelling for an encore. Unfortunately, the Marines and his former managers have flanked him. The Marines confirm him as "Humming" Brook with a 33,00,000 bounty, the former captain of the Rumbar Pirates and a member of the Straw Hat crew. Brook's fans become distressed at the news. His managers explained that by honestly telling them that Brook would be retiring, it would be the end of the business exploit hence inciting them to have Brook die with them. In fact, this incites Brook to call on his band and dancers in helping him declare that the rumors were false by saying "Straw Hat Luffy... Dead? Ridiculous--tell this to the world. The pirate Straw Hat Luffy is ALIVE!". The Marines are held back by the fans as Brook plays the encore, showing he is ready to go to the New World.
Back on the newly refurbished Thousand Sunny, Nami, Usopp, and Chopper meet up with Franky and Robin. Usopp holds Chopper as he gawks at the new upgrades on Franky who now sports retractable hands inside of his giant ones and a hair-growth feature. Nami is overjoyed to see Robin and Franky again. Rayleigh and Shakky arrive. Shakky updates the crew on where the others are and the situation on the archipelago. Rayleigh talks to Nami to teach her how to control a coated ship. Usopp, worried since Luffy has not shown up yet, asks about him. Rayleigh replies with a smile on his face that Luffy is already on the archipelago. The chapter ends with Rayleigh proclaiming, "It's finally time to restart!!!"

The chapter starts at Brook's concert where the Marines are being attacked by the crowd, preventing them from arresting Brook. Brook is rescued by Rosy Life Riders who claim that it was an order from Shakky.
At Grove 46, Fake Luffy declares to make an example out of the real Luffy because of his disrespect, but is interrupted by the Marines, who surround the pirates and block all entrances and exits. Fake Luffy orders Caribou and Coribou to use the captured marine as a hostage to open a path for them but Caribou refuses and kills the Marine. Fake Luffy is angered that Caribou did not obey his orders, while the real Luffy is confused as to why everyone is calling him boss. The pirates and the marines then engage each other in a battle. The pirates' morale quickly declines when the Pacifistas suddenly appear. Lip "Service" Doughty, worth 88,000,000, is easily defeated by a Pacifista, causing a stir amongst the pirates.
When the pirates turn to Fake Luffy for help, he runs away with the other fake Straw hats, claiming that they cannot defeat the heavily armored Pacifistas. Sentomaru suddenly appears in front of Fake Luffy. The crew of Fake Luffy was cheering for him, yelling "Boss Luffy is gonna fight for us! Show us the power of 400,000,000!". Sentomaru questions Fake Luffy as to why they called him "Straw Hat." All Fake Luffy could do was try to intimidate Sentomaru with Luffy's heritage. Unfazed by Fake Luffy's empty threats, Sentomaru proceeds to smash Fake Luffy into the ground with the broad side of his axe, while saying "'Straw Hat' is not some piece of shit like you!". The recruits were shocked and Sentomaru ordered PX-5 to identify the imposter. It turns out that Fake Luffy is really a pirate called "Three-Tongued" Demaro Black and has a bounty of 26,000,000. The recruits were shocked and angered. The other Imposter Straw Hats then try to flee the scene. Albion angrily stated that they would all have been the subordinates of a 26,000,000 bounty faker. Sentomaru tells the pirate recruits that they were idiots to believe in the Fake Luffy and he will arrest them all. He is also aware of the real Luffy's presence, since PX-5 identified him as soon as they arrived. Sentomaru then orders PX-5 to target him, causing the real Luffy to lose his disguise.
Monkey D. Luffy was revealed to all the people there, shocking everyone. Sentomaru declares that he will arrest Luffy on the spot and once again orders PX-5 to attack him. Luffy claims that PX-5's attack is slow and activates his Gear 2 followed by a haki infused "Gomu Gomu no Jet Pistol", defeating PX-5 in one hit. Then he escaped and saw the real Zoro and Sanji who were then attacked by another Pacifista. They easily defeated it, and then stated to each other how they each defeated the Pacifista. This shocked everybody again. The pirates saw how they are nothing like the fakes and the Marines saw that the Straw Hat crew is alive. Luffy was glad that they are reunited. Luffy then noticed Rayleigh, which further shocked everyone in the vicinity. Rayleigh claimed that he came to see if they needed help but that it looks like there is no need for him to do that. The chapter ends when Luffy thanks Rayleigh for everything over the last two years. Luffy raised his hands in the air and declared "I'm gonna become the Pirate King!" At this, a smiling Rayleigh starts to get tears in his eyes, while Sanji and Zoro just smile.

The chapter starts with Luffy saying goodbye to Rayleigh and thanking him once again while a voice off-screen yells "Capture Straw Hat!" There is a brief flashback of two instances during Luffy's training, Rayleigh then tells Luffy to aim for the top. Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji leave just as the Marines arrive. Rayleigh draws his sword, asking the Marines to respect the departure of his pupil. He then draws a line in the dirt with his sword's blade, saying that it would be a bad idea to cross the line. Elsewhere, while picking up Sanji's grocery, the Monster Trio is surrounded by more Marines. Suddenly, a Negative Hollow appears. Perona then appears, seemingly annoyed at the disturbance they were causing, asking what they were still doing there and why they had not left yet. The Marines behind her are suffering the effects of her Negative Hollow. Sanji (and obviously Zoro) recognize her, while Luffy does not. Perona then chastises Zoro for sounding ungrateful, reminding him that if it had not been for her, Zoro would not have reached the archipelago. She then tells them to hurry up since Marine vessels were right next to island.
Meanwhile, at Thousand Sunny, the crew members who had already arrived are rejoicing in seeing each other again. Brook, for the first time in two years, asks Nami if he could see her panties. Before he could finish his question, Nami promptly kicked him in the head, sending him flying into the wall. Nami then states that no one had matured during the two years they were separated. Chopper had gone to look for the others. Then, Luffy, Zoro, Sanji, and Chopper all arrived on one of the giant birds from Torino Kingdom. Everyone is overjoyed to see the last three crew members. Sanji, upon seeing Nami and Robin for the first time in two years, breaks out in a nosebleed so massive that the pressure from the gushing blood seemingly launches him from the bird. Once on the ship, Usopp tells Chopper to stop Sanji's bleeding. Luffy cannot help but marvel at Franky's new modifications. Nami tries to pull him out of this trance, saying they have bigger problems.
Suddenly, Thousand Sunny is bombarded by cannon fire. A Marine ship was already in range of the Straw Hat Pirates. The second round of cannon balls is stopped by Boa Hancock's Slave Arrows. The Kuja Pirates' ship intercepts the Marine ship, stalling their attack on the pirates. Robin identifies the ship as belonging to the Kuja. Usopp is shocked by Boa Hancock's presence and comments on her beauty. Sanji momentarily "turns to stone" from seeing her and Brook becomes mesmerized by her appearance. Usopp wonders why a Shichibukai would be at the archipelago before Luffy reveals that he knows her, much to their surprise. Hancock winks at Luffy. Brook sees this, causing him to fall over in shock. Nami asks Luffy how he knew her as Luffy explains that he met her on the Isle of Women. Usopp is surprised by the fact that such an island actually exists. Sanji yells at Luffy out of jealousy with tears in his eyes. Marguerite and Sweet Pea comment on the appearance of Luffy's crew, saying they looked fun and that there were types of people they had never seen before.
Franky then states that he will open valves so that air can flow in from the sack under the ship. The ship's coating starts to expand, forming a giant bubble around the ship, covering the deck with a bubble roof. Chopper then notices Usopp looking out at the archipelago and asks him if something is wrong. Usopp asks if all the Marines had been defeated. Chopper says that he did not think so. Usopp then comments that no one was chasing them. No one else seemed bothered by this, some even calling it luck. It is soon revealed why no Marines are following them.
The scene changes to the Marine's third backup platoon. They state that they cannot pursue the Straw Hats because giant insects, under the command of Heracles, were blocking their path. Heracles then wishes Usopp a safe journey. This happened to all the other Marine platoons. The fourth platoon's gunpowder was ruined by a sudden rain, that was isolated to only their location. It is revealed that the rain came from Weatheria, which was floating right above Sabaody Archipelago. Haredas and the other scientist were creating more diversions so that the crew could set off safely. Haredas then says that it will be lonely in Weatheria without Nami. The fifth platoon reported that the second platoon had gone completely negative, being held off by Perona. They also reported that the pirates escaped on a giant bird, which confused the person talking. Another platoon was intercepted by the okamas, claiming their hearts were about to be crushed; this affected Sanji too. One of the okamas said that now was Sanji's chance to escape.
Back at the Sunny, Nami started to explain how coated ships work. They have the ability to reduce various pressures, meaning that the ship cannot stay buoyant. The air sack is the only thing keeping the ship afloat at the moment. Both Luffy and Zoro simultaneously said that they did not understand. Franky resurfaces, saying that he had removed the air sack. Nami ordered everyone to raise the sails while they submerge. This confused Usopp, who thought that the ship would move on its own once underwater. Robin explains that underwater, ocean currents act as the equivalent of wind, thus, the currents move the ship. Luffy asked Nami if they were ready to go, to which she replies yes. Luffy then shouts that he has a lot of things to tell them, but for the moment wanted to thank them for putting up with his selfishness for the last two years. Usopp and Sanji sarcastically ask if he thought that was anything new, saying Luffy had always been like that. A Marine shouts to his commanding officer, a Rear Admiral, that the Straw Hats were escaping underwater, saying so while only the very top of the mast was still visible. The Rear Admiral, as well as the rest of the Marines, were being held captive by Boa Hancock's beauty. Luffy then yells "SET SAIL!" The chapter ends with the crew underwater, heading toward Fish-Man Island.

The chapter starts out in the "no man's land" on Sabaody Archipelago. Caribou, Coribou, and their crew somehow escaped the battle and are holding the Imposter Straw Hats (save Black, Cocoa, and Fake Chopper) captive. The fakes beg for their lives as Coribou and the Caribou pirates dig holes, preparing to bury the impostors alive. Caribou reveals that he never intended to follow the Straw Hats and had planned to kill them from the inside and is very angry that he met fakes instead. The impostors continue to beg for mercy and Caribou then grabs fake Sanji and starts to suffocate him with his Devil Fruit powers. Fake Sogeking tries to stop Caribou with a bazooka but fails, as the shot is just absorbed into Caribou's body. The impostors are terrified, learning that Caribou is a Logia. Caribou then orders his crew to bury the fakes and happily states that he managed to confirm the real Straw Hat Luffy.
Sentomaru is then seen talking to his superiors about the Straw Hat crew's escape and their newly acquired strength with Demaro Black lying on the ground, tied up and unconscious. Shakky and Rayleigh are then seen having a conversation at the coast where the Straw Hats departed. Rayleigh then thinks back to the day when he first met Gol D. Roger. This flashback also reveals that Luffy's straw hat once belonged to Roger. Rayleigh then states that Luffy has taken another step towards becoming a man worthy of that hat he wears.
While the Thousand Sunny is sailing underwater, the crew marvels at the site of the underwater world. Luffy and Zoro attempt to catch some of the fish only to be stopped by Usopp and Chopper. Sanji asks Nami about what the crew needs to know about the coating. As Nami starts to explain, Sanji got another massive nosebleed just by seeing Nami's body move. Sanji propels himself out of the coated ship and had to be grabbed and pulled back in by Luffy. Chopper immediately starts treating Sanji while Brook shows his concern for the cook, wondering what will happen when they see the mermaids on Fish-Man Island. Nami then explains that a coated ship has all the same properties of the bubbles on the Sabaody Archipelago, where they will expand until a certain point before letting an object go through the bubble. If it gets too many holes, it would pop. Luffy and Zoro try catching fish again only to be stopped by Usopp and Chopper once more. Since Sanji is out of commission, Luffy and his crew start eating the special lunch boxes given to Luffy by Boa Hancock. Franky explains to the crew how the Thousand Sunny was kept safe for two whole years. He stated that during a battle with the marines, Hatchan and Duval suffered serious injuries and Bartholomew Kuma took over as the ship's protector. It is revealed that Kuma was allowed by Dr. Vegapunk to include a single mission of his own into the programming, to "protect the ship of the Straw Hat Pirates until the day one of their members returns". The Straw Hats agree that they are indebted to Kuma. The chapter ends with the Straw Hats being unknowingly followed by the Caribou Pirates.

The chapter starts with the crew wondering how far the ship had descended below the ocean. Usopp comments that the light almost cannot reach them anymore. Franky said they are past a level called the Euphotic Zone and are about to be out of another level called the Disphotic Zone, saying they were probably about 1000m below the surface. Nico Robin notes how quiet it is, completely different from a submarine, and how it reminds her of flying in the sky. A small pod of blue whales passes the ship. Brook cries, as they remind him of Laboon. Luffy thinks they look like Whitebeard and waves to them. While this is happening, the Caribou Pirates's ship is quickly approaching Thousand Sunny from behind, being towed by a shadowy sea monster. Caribou is heard rallying the crew, getting them ready for their upcoming attack. Caribou appears on his ship's deck, saying he wants to make their names known to the world by taking the Straw Hats' heads to display to the world.
Back on the Sunny, Usopp sees something gaining on them from the ship's six o'clock direction (the direction directly behind the ship). He thinks it is a sea monster and tells the crew there is a shadow heading directly toward them. Caribou's ship soon catches up and comes along side the Sunny. The ship looks like it is trying to ram the Sunny, but it is really trying to get the bubble roofs to touch. The Straw Hats wonder whose ship it is. Caribou leads the assault. At that moment, Nami recognizes the monster pulling the ship as Momoo, the pet sea cow of the Arlong Pirates. Momoo sees Nami, Sanji, and Luffy, remembering all three of them from the past. He remembers the beatings he received from Luffy and Sanji, and swims back the opposite way out of terror, towing the ship with him, but not before Caribou (and only Caribou) was able to make it onto the Thousand Sunny's deck. The Caribou Pirates still on the ship are completely dumbfounded as to what just happened. They also wondered why there was a sea cow attached to their ship.
Caribou, unaware he was left behind, commands his crew to introduce themselves by slaughtering all the Straw Hats. He immediately realizes that he is the only one of his crew on board the ship and immediately changes his tune. Franky picks him with one hand, Caribou begging him not to throw him out into the ocean calling them gentlemen, saying that human life is not something to be wasted, and that God is watching them. Franky, instead of throwing him out into the ocean, simply throws him against one of the side rails of the ship. Zoro asks if he was the captain of the ship that just went by. Caribou, realizing who asked the question, immediately denies this, saying he is just a human bullet for that crew, and that he is sick of being on that ship. He then asks the Straw Hats if it would be alright if he rode with them for a while. Chopper believes him, saying he might be a victim. Usopp, ironically, calls everything Caribou said a lie, which leaves Chopper surprised. Nami asks Caribou about why they had a sea cow pulling their ship. Caribou calls her a cutie-pie, asking her if she is "Cat Burglar" Nami. Sanji then intervenes, kicking him in the face and pinning him to a wall, saying he had no right to look at Nami with his despicable eyes. He is then about to tell Nami that everything is fine. However, before he could finish his sentence, he breaks out in another nosebleed. Usopp says that his nosebleeds are beginning to be a pain in the ass. Chopper suggests they rehabilitate him using low intensity pictures. Caribou explains that they had caught Momoo in the area, saying that having a sea monster pull their ship is the mark of a pro undersea traveler.
The scene momentarily switches back to the Caribou Pirates' ship, the crew trying to command Momoo to stop and asking him what happened. Coribou then says that Caribou will save them for sure.
Back on the Sunny, Luffy asks if anyone sees a sea cow anywhere, and then Nami asks him what he is planning. Usopp then notices that the ship had shifted direction and asks Nami if it was ok. The scene momentarily changes before her answer. Luffy is poking a tied up Caribou with a stick. Caribou is reworking his plan. Since he can get out of the ropes any time he pleases and since he cannot fight nine people at once, he thinks it would be best to observe the crew and wait for a chance to kill them one by one. He starts to come up with another idea but is cut off. Nami then said that the slight shift was fine, as they are supposed to be southwest of the log pose needle. Luffy asks if it would not be faster to travel in a straight line while Brook is saying he is starting to feel cold, and is about to say that he does not have skin but Chopper beats him to it, by saying that is amazing since he does not have skin. Nami explains that if they continue straight, they would just be swallowed up by currents and could hit a volcano or sea mountain before finishing their descent. Usopp says that the Grand Line's currents have always posed a hazard of some kind, and asks if there is a certain one to take.
Nami replies that there is only one, and tells everyone to put on a coat, saying the journey will get a lot colder. Zoro asks if they were going somewhere cold, saying he thought they were going to the deep sea. Franky corrects him, saying that the water in the deep sea is cold. Just like the bathtub, the water is colder on the bottom than it is on the top. Brook then adds that the colder levels have what are called Deep Currents, large ocean currents normally invisible to the naked eye that move in a completely different pattern than surface currents. Franky adds that all the currents on both levels eventually connect and reconnect with each other independent of depth or whether or not they are traveling east to west, comparing it to a giant dragon. He also added that the currents travel the whole world without ever breaking. Brooks then says that he has heard that the Deep Currents move very slowly across the ocean floor, and that once someone is down that deep, it could take nearly 2000 years to return to a part of the sea that gets sunlight. He then adds that there are many legends relating to the currents about monsters, curses, and ghosts. This excites Luffy and frightens Chopper. Nami says that to get there, they need to ride a descending current that takes them from a surface current to a deep current. Chopper asks how they find a spot like that. Robin replies that like a bath tub, cold water will move downwards. Usopp then concludes that they are going to a place where sea currents lose their warmth. Nami describes the Red Line as a group of adjoining islands, each with a different season. They are heading toward a climatic zone where there are winter islands, saying the area fulfills another prerequisite for currents to go down.
Luffy, suddenly interested, asks what the prerequisite is. Nami says it is about salinity, or the salt content found in sea water. Luffy said he played salinity all the time and Zoro said he always wanted a fire-sword. Luffy then asks Zoro how far he was sent away. With the two distracted, Usopp and Chopper ask Nami to continue explaining about salinity and ocean currents. Surprised by their enthusiasm, Nami goes on, explaining that a necessity for a downward current is the presence of cold, heavy water and that in cold areas, sea ice exists. Before she can continue explaining, Luffy, Zoro, Usopp, and Chopper are all seen drinking tea, saying simultaneously "So, it's a mystery current, huh?" This angers Nami to no end, and she yells that they should have just been quiet and rode from the start. Brook offers to sing. Franky then calls to her from the bow of the ship, saying "it" has come into view. Everyone goes to the bow. Luffy asks what the current looks like. Franky, in response to seeing it, says "Mother nature really knows how to get things done". Sanji asks what it is. Nami replies that it is called a Downward Plume. It is just like a giant undersea waterfall. Everyone looks at the Downward Plume in shock and awe. Robin comments on its massive flow, wondering how many hundreds of meters it was in diameter. Brook said that hearing it and seeing it are two completely different things. Usopp was scared that since it was too dark for him to see the bottom, assuming that the ship would crash and break up on the ocean floor. Nami questioned the current's safety, while Franky assured her that a ship born from Adam Wood could survive anything.
Caribou, who had been quiet the whole time, stands up and tells the Straw Hats to turn back immediately, saying that something was bad. Zoro, looked at him having forgotten he was there. Luffy says he sees a monster at the bottom. Caribou states he has never heard of that type of sea monster living in a place like a Downward Plume. He described the creature as such: "I've never heard that that thing was living in these waters!!! ......!!! That legendary demon that roams the vast ocean, never tiring of the slaughter it leaves in its wake...!! The enemy of all humanity!!!" The monster in question is a kraken, a giant, mythological octopus. Franky adds that it's crushing all the ships in its tentacles and that it must have taken all the ships that had set out in the past few days. While Usopp is commenting on its gargantuan size, Chopper is foaming at the mouth out of shock. Caribou said it must have been preying on ships trying to ride the downward current and that he had never heard of anything like this happening before. He begs Luffy to turn back, telling him to wait a few more days. Luffy simply calls him noisy and tells him to shut up. The chapter ends with Luffy saying he is going to make the kraken his pet.

The chapter starts with the rest of the crew shocked by Luffy's declaration that he will tame the kraken. Luffy wanted to tame it, so it could pull their ship. Usopp and Chopper try to deter Luffy by pointing out the creature's immense size and mythical, legendary status. Brook comments that he, a meatless skeleton, feels like the antipode to the kraken. Franky says that the creature looks tasty, while Robin sketches it, much to Chopper's shock at everyone's calm demeanor, saying how rarely seen it is. Zoro says he would not mind catching it and asks Luffy if he has a plan. Luffy says that the problem is that they are in the ocean. Usopp contradicts him, saying that the kraken's size was the main problem, while Nami gives the order to turn the rudder to the south. Luffy tells her instead to head straight for the kraken. Nami points out one of the crushed ships and asks Luffy if he wants that to happen to them. Sanji backs up Nami, almost having a nosebleed in the process, but controlling himself at the last second. Usopp, who is shocked by this, commends the chef. Chopper explains that it is the result of his rehabilitation and the fact that Nami is wearing a coat. Caribou is shocked by everyone's behavior, saying that in this situation, running away would be the proper, expected thing to do.
All of a sudden, Coribou and the Caribou Pirates' ship reappear. Caribou is delighted to see his brother and crew. Coribou shouts that he will save his brother. Before Coribou can save his brother, one of the kraken's gigantic tentacles descends on and wraps around Coribou's ship, bursting the coating bubble and crushing it. Coribou and the rest of the Caribou Pirates are all in shock while floating in the deep ocean. The Straw Hat Pirates and Caribou are all stunned by this sight. Caribou seems devastated by the loss of his crew, saying "Ohhhh, my bastards". When Zoro comments that they all look like jellyfish floating in the water, Caribou tells him to shut up, calling him Roronoa. The kraken then turns its attention to the Straw Hat Pirates. Zoro starts to pull out his sword and Luffy gets ready to go into Gear 3. Usopp stops both of them, saying their attacks would break the bubble. Franky says that they will dodge it with Chicken Voyage. Nami tells Franky to use Coup de Burst to propel them into the current so they can escape. Franky says they cannot, as the amount of air required to use Coup de Burst or Gaon Cannon is limited. Nami then asks what they are going to do. Luffy says they will not do anything, since he is going to fight the kraken. Chopper begs him not to, saying the bubble will break. Caribou chimes in, saying if Luffy wants to fight the kraken, then he has a way for him to do it.
Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji are then covered in the coating resin, with a bubble forming around their bodies starting at their knees, with their lower legs simply coated without a bubble. The coatings act as diving suits. Caribou calls it "Barefoot Coating". Caribou goes on to tell them that the rope he gave them is their lifeline, letting them fight freely without being restrained by the ship, and so they do not have to worry about drifting away. Usopp is furious at Caribou, saying that they never asked for his help, saying that he ruined their plan to run away by enabling the Monster Trio to actually fight. Caribou retaliates, saying that he has been telling them to run away since they encountered the kraken. He then asks Usopp which idea he likes better: having them fight while on the ship or sending them out of the ship to fight. Usopp is convinced and tells Luffy to go and fight far away from them. Nami agrees, telling them that if they are going to fight, to do it away from the ship. Luffy states that the lifeline will get in the way. Nami protests, saying that they need the line, so they will not get separated from each other, but she is too late, as Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji have already left the ship. Sanji, delighted by the fact that Nami is worried about him, suffers a very minor nosebleed.
Luffy tells Zoro and Sanji to go ahead of him in order to buy him some time, saying he is going to take the kraken out with a single shot. Zoro replies that he will take the kraken out by the time Luffy is ready. Luffy says that slashing the kraken would be bad, since he wants to keep it as a pet. The kraken tries to attack the ship again. Franky counters it by launching rockets at the tentacle from his shoulders. Usopp, Luffy, and Chopper all marvel at the new upgrade. Another tentacle attacks the ship from behind, this one actually making contact. However, Chopper is able to counter it by quickly eating a rumble ball and using his new, much larger, Guard Point. Everyone is surprised by Chopper's development. Even though the ship is not damaged, the force of the attack was enough to send it toward a mountain. This time, it's Robin's turn to protect the ship. She said she should be able to use her powers for a moment even though they are under water. Her new technique, Mil Fleurs: Gigantesco Mano, produced two enormous hands, sprouting from the ship, which pushed it away from the mountain. Luffy then activates his Gear 3, imbuing it with Busoshoku Haki, causing his fist to turn black and become hard. However, he could not attack, as the ocean was sapping him of his powers.
Sanji sees Luffy needs more time and moves to intercept the kraken's tentacle so fast that he actually broke out of his bubble with a technique called Blue Walk. Usopp and Brook are shocked to see Sanji move so fast, Usopp comparing the chef's speed to that of a fish-man. Sanji uses the memory of running away from the okamas for two years as motivation for his speed, even thinking the kraken was cute compared to the okamas. He then uses another new technique, Diable Jambe: Bien Cuit: Grill Shot. The attack hits the kraken's tentacle, burning it in the process. The scene then switches to Zoro, who is also attacking the kraken with a new technique, Santoryu Ogi: Rokudo no Tsuji. This attack cut one of the kraken's tentacles off after slicing it into six pieces lengthwise. Luffy then tells both of them to stop attacking as they are taking off the creature's legs. Luffy then hits the kraken with his new technique, Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gun. This is enough to send the kraken flying backward. As everyone is marveling at his strength, they all notice a shark that escapes from the kraken's mouth. The shark is wearing a Criminal brand t-shirt. Zoro notes its size while Sanji asks if it really has clothes on. Right after everyone sees the shark, the Monster Trio is sucked down by the Downward Plume current, along with the knocked-out kraken. The Straw Hats on board Thousand Sunny are also pulled into the current, as Nami tells them to keep the yards down tight and to not let up at all or else the ship suffer serious damage. After the ship is in the center of the current, it is shown that Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji are not too far ahead of them, still in their bubbles, Luffy apparently enjoying the ride.
Usopp was knocked unconscious at some time while the ship was in the Downward Plume. He is next seen waking up, after lying face-first on the ship's deck. He comments that they survived. He then asks why everyone looked so glum, also commenting on how cold it was. Robin tells him that Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji got separated from the rest of the group and they cannot find them, saying hopefully they weren't ripped to shreds by some monster. Usopp adds that even if they are alive, the air in their bubbles will not last for very long. Nami regrets that they did listen to her and did not take the lifeline. Franky states that it will not do them any good to just sit and lament, saying that they should look for them as he has a light function built in. Chopper asks if it was with Franky's eyes, but the light instead comes out from Franky's nipples. The chapter ends with a narration stating that the crew is in the Deep Sea, where no light can penetrate, and normal sea creatures are not allowed to exist. It is called the "Underworld of the Sea".

The Straw Hats still on board the Sunny are looking for Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji in the dark depths of the Deep Sea. It is hard to search the water due to it being so dark. Even the Sunny's headlight beams could not penetrate that far into the water. The ship is then surrounded by a school of enormous jellyfish. One of the jellyfish stuck one of its tentacles through the coating bubble. Chopper tries to touch it but Robin yells at him not to touch it, as they are poisonous. Franky uses a Coup de Burst just as a giant fish bites down on the jellyfish. Brook notices that the Coup de Burst lowered the air level on the ship somewhat. Right after he says this, the large fish turns onto its back, killed from the nerve toxin inside the jellyfish. Chopper notices that there are a lot of fish with white eyes. Brook comments that the eyes on a lot of fish at this level are vestigial, making them unable to see at all. Usopp and Chopper take advantage of this and start teasing the large fish. Robin then states that there are also fish whose eyes have evolved to see in the darkness. Resuming the search, Brook notices that Caribou had escaped from the ropes that were holding him. No one had seen Caribou since they had reached the Deep Sea, suggesting he might have been thrown overboard. Caribou is really hiding in a barrel nearby as everyone realizes he could be hiding anywhere on the ship and they need to be even more on guard. Caribou considers sneaking into the girls' room, saying he had been planning to do so. He seemed please that the Monster Trio is gone, thinking/saying they all must be dead by now. He was disappointed that he could not take Luffy's head, but figured the heads of the rest of the crew would be just as good. He will wait until the instant they land at Fish-Man Island to attack.
While he is thinking all this out. Franky notices him in the barrel. He forces the lid of the barrel down and seals the barrel with ropes and by bolting large metal holding plates along the sides of both ends of the barrel. Franky realizes that Caribou had let himself get hit by Sanji earlier in order to hide his mud-like Logia powers. Franky concludes that the crew would have been in trouble if Caribou wasn't such an idiot. As Franky walks away, Caribou, from the barrel, begs Franky to let him out, saying he would become Franky's slave if he did, calling him "Mister Trunks". Franky then notices that something was bothering Chopper and asks him what is wrong. Chopper says it has become really hot, and Usopp agrees. The crew then notices that they are heading into a cloud of smoke. Nami realizes that smoke under water, coupled with hydrothermal mineral deposits could only mean they were in a Deep Sea volcanic region. The Sunny is right above the mouths of several volcanoes. Franky realizes that if the volcanoes erupt, they would be killed instantly and proceeds to steer the ship away from the volcanoes. The crew is then chased by carnivorous tube-worms, a noppera crab, and several other creatures. Chopper complains that he cannot go on living and misses Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji, saying he waited two years to see them and when he finally does, they disappear. Chopper then notices a light in the distance, wondering if they had reached Fish-Man Island. Nami says no, as they still have 3000 meters to go. Franky uses his Nipple Lights to ask in Morse Code "W-H-O-A-R-E-Y-O-U-?" The light turns out to belong to a giant angler fish. The fish tries to eat the ship, but is stopped by a giant humanoid creature. Usopp identifies it as an umibozu, a sea giant (sea devil). The giant punches the angler fish, whose name is Ankoro, saying it was not supposed to attack ships and that captain Vander Decken would be mad at them. Brook then hears someone singing. A ghostly ship approaches from behind the giant. The ship is old and parts of it are worn. Everyone was shocked at this sight, even Brook, which prompted Usopp to say that Brook shouldn't be surprised.
Brook identifies the ship as "The real thing", the Flying Dutchman. He then proceeded to give the history of the ship and its captain. It is called "The ship that should not be". The story dates back hundreds of years. On a stormy day, a captain became deranged and started throwing his crew overboard, killing all of them. The captain's name was Vander Decken. He incurred the wrath of God, and was doomed to an eternity of wandering the sea, forbidden to ever make port. That ship is the very same ship they see before them, the cursed ship of Vander Decken.
Vander Decken, whose whole body was shadowed except his arm, told the angler fish and the giant, whose name is Wadatsumi, that they would not get treasure if they ate the ship. He tells them to "knock it down." Someone yelled for Franky to use Coup de Burst, but Franky said they cannot since they ran out of fuel just then. They are saved, when the kraken shows up out of nowhere and punches Wadatsumi in the chin. Everyone on the ship is surprised to see it again. Vander Decken calls the Kraken "Monster of the Arctic". The Kraken continues to beat up the giant until ordered by Luffy to stop, which it did. Everyone is relieved to see that Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji are alive, all three are in the same bubble. Wadatsumi is unconscious with large bruises. Luffy tells them that his and Sanji's bubbles broke, so they all had to share Zoro's. Luffy did not like it in the cramped bubble. He sprawls out on the deck of the ship, happy for so much room. Franky notes how much vitality they all have. Nami asks if they actually tamed the kraken. Luffy says he is going to turn the kraken, who he named Surume, into a top-notch navigator as Surume places Thousand Sunny on his head. Usopp says they should be careful the ship is not crushed. Everyone then hears a rumbling sound coming from one of the volcanoes. Vander Decken's crew alerts him that there is trouble, as Nami realizes the volcano is about to erupt.

The crews of both the Thousand Sunny and the Flying Dutchman realize that a volcano is about to erupt. Vander Decken tells his crew that they are retreating for now. He then commands Wadatsumi and Ankoro to pull the ship to safety. Nami realizes the full danger of the situation and tells Luffy to tell Surume to get the ship as far away from the volcano as possible. Luffy starts to call out the orders, but Usopp says he does not have to since Surume is already running away. Luffy says he wants to see the volcano erupt. Usopp tells Surume to escape to the front side, but Nami says it would not matter since it is only a few meters of difference. The volcano erupts. As the magma is making its way down to the ocean floor, Nami realizes that the water temperature is rising. Everyone looks up in time to see Wadatsumi and the Flying Dutchman get thrown around as the temperature differences caused by the magma create whirlpools. Sanji asks Nami which way they should go to get to Fish-Man Island, suffering a nosebleed immediately after asking the question. Chopper is surprised that he would get a guilty conscience in such a dire situation. Nami replies that they have to move forward a little more in order to get into a specific trench.
The trench in question was a precipice preceding a large drop off into total darkness. The crew could not believe that Fish-Man Island was really at the bottom of the trench. With the water heated by the lava catching up to the ship, Usopp exclaims that the darkness is scary and that he does not think will leave the trench alive. He tries to tell Luffy that the darkness will take them to Hell, but Luffy yells to Surume to jump in. The kraken jumps in just as the volcano lets out another burst of magma. Franky then notices something above the ship. It is a rockslide caused by the volcanic activity. Nami exclaims that the volcano has just destroyed the trench. A rock is falling towards the ship. Zoro orders Surume to get out of the way, as he is going to cut it. Before he can leave, Robin grabs him using her Devil Fruit ability, saying at 8,000 meters below the surface, the water pressure would crush him. Usopp then unveils a new attack: Midori Boshi: Sargasso. Seaweed sprouts from the rock face, catching the falling rocks. As Chopper looks in awe, Usopp says his attack will stop the rocks momentarily, leaving enough time for Surume to get away. Surume gets out from under the caught rocks just in time, as the plant holding them gives way. While everyone is praising Usopp, they do not notice the errant boulder falling toward Surume. The boulder hits Surume above the eyes, stunning him, possibly knocking him unconscious.
An narration box gives the crew's location as 10,000 meters below the surface, calling the bottom of the trench the ocean depths. In the same panel, Surume is lying in a heap and light is streaming down from above. Thousand Sunny is on its side but still on top of Surume's head. Everyone is grateful to be alive. Robin asks how there could be light so deep in the sea. Brook makes a joke saying the light is blinding him but that he does not have eyes. Franky calls everyone over to one side of the ship and tells them to look up. Usopp is having trouble seeing what it is since the light is so bright. Luffy asks Nami if that is it. Nami replies without a doubt, as the needle is pointing directly at it, that they have reached Fish-Man Island. They note that the island is surrounded by a large bubble, indicating that there is air on the island. Everyone cheers. Caribou, from his barrel imprisonment, also notes their arrival while laughing. Sanji states that he has wanted to visit this place since he was a kid, the place where beautiful mermaids dance. As he starts cheering, he succumbs to another nosebleed. Usopp and Chopper realize that the rehabilitation did not help Sanji in time, as all he had to do was fantasize about mermaids in order to get a nosebleed. Chopper suggests that it is not the best idea to meet a real mermaid now. Usopp argues saying that Sanji's dream is to meet a mermaid. Chopper replies that meeting one will cost him his life. Sanji says it does not matter, much to Chopper's surprise. Sanji goes on to say that he would rather die while looking perversely at mermaids than live a life where his dreams did not come true. Sanji declares that he will meet the mermaids. Luffy, meanwhile, is wondering what kind of meat goes into the food on Fish-Man Island. Nami tells him to wipe the drool from his chin and help them find the entrance. Franky then asks what some off-screen figures are doing there.
A voice asks Surume why he is letting humans order him around. Surume freezes in fear, then tosses Thousand Sunny up into the air and starts to run away. The ship is then blocked by six sea monsters resembling a rhino, a giraffe, a gorilla, an elephant, a lion, and a bear. Nami, Usopp, Chopper, and Brook look at the massive creatures and exclaim that it is all over, despite making it this far. A figure riding on the giraffe-like sea monster says that since they are pirates, that means they are enemies of the humans, which means he is about to give them a choice. He then recognizes the Straw Hat crew by their jolly roger. The person speaking said he had heard a lot about them and recounted their defeating the Arlong Pirates, about how they saved and protected Hatchan, and about Luffy punching a Celestial Dragon, and then compared Luffy to Fisher Tiger. The person talking is revealed to be a tall, pike eel fish-man named Hammond. He is a combatant under the New Fish-Man Pirates. He was accompanied by a merman and a fish-man. Hammond asks the crew if they are friend or foe, if they fall under the control of the New Fish-Man Pirates or reject them. Hammond adds that if they refuse, they will be sunk then and there. Hammond has the jolly roger of the Fish-Man Pirates (Arlong's old crew) tattooed on his neck by his left shoulder. The sight of it seems to make Nami uncomfortable, and she tells Franky to refuel the ship. Franky asks what the fish-men think they are doing. Nami says that at 10,000 meters below sea level they have absolutely zero chance of winning in a fight against them. She tells Franky her plan. They are going to run away by using the air they have left in the ship to pull off one last Coup de Burst and charge right into Fish-Man Island. Much to Franky's disbelief, Nami said it was either that or die then and there. Robin agrees that that is their only option. As Franky handled the steering, Usopp refilled the fuel. Just as the Coup de Burst was at full power, Hammond asks Luffy one more time if he would become their subordinate, but Luffy refuses.

Hammond becomes outraged at the fact that Luffy refused his offer to become a subordinate of the New Fish-Man Pirates. Luffy makes a face at Hammond, while Chopper pleads with Luffy not to irritate the fish-man. Hammond, now angry, states that he cannot let them through and orders the sea lion to attack. However, Usopp, in the energy room of the Thousand Sunny, tells Franky that they are ready to go. Luffy challenges Hammond to a fight but Nami quickly orders for the Coup de Burst to be fired. Franky states that he will settle the score with the sea lion another day. Hammond and his subordinate are surprised at the Coup de Burst. The usage of the Coup de Burst consequently drains the air out of the bubble around the Thousand Sunny, squashing the Straw Hat Pirates into the ship. As the Straw Hats attempt to enter Fish-Man Island, the bubble coating around the Thousand Sunny is ripped away by the bubble around Fish-Man Island. Robin quickly explains that the bubble is double layered, and that any ship would fall into the air pocket. The Straw Hats brace for another entry in to the actual Island itself. Water enters the ship (as there is no coating) and all the Straw Hats start to drown. Sanji despairs due to the four Devil Fruit users onboard the ship. Outside, Hammond and his subordinates are puzzled by the "absurd way of entering" Fish-Man Island. One asks if they should be pursued and Hammond, answers by saying yes. However, Hammond states that it would be annoying if the Neptune Army were to find the Straw Hats first. He then says that they should go back to "Noah" and tell the boss, to say that the one who crushed Arlong's ambition, Luffy, is here.
Meanwhile inside Fish-Man Island: as Luffy wakes up, he sees five little mermaids surrounding him. He coughs up water, which scares the girls away. Usopp celebrates that Luffy woke up, with Sanji and Chopper sitting beside him. As Luffy wakes up, he recognizes Camie. Much older now, Camie is seen cooking, with all the little girls around her waist. Sanji exclaims that she has become more cuter, whilst Camie herself apologizes for not picking the Straw Hats up, as she remembered the date incorrectly (a month off). Luffy becomes enthralled by the fact they entered Fish-Man Island. Usopp informs him that the mermaids saved him and that he, Chopper, and Sanji only had woken up recently. It is revealed that they are inside Camie's house, where half of the inside is water. Luffy is also informed that they had all been split up. Although looking worried, Luffy says that they should all be okay. Sanji agrees, saying that "Bones" (Brook) would be useless in the water (due to the Yomi Yomi no Mi) but that he should be okay since "Robo" (Franky) and "Green" (Zoro) would be there. Camie brings over soup to warm the four Straw Hats, but exclaims that cold soup would not warm up cold bodies. Usopp assures her that it is okay. The five mermaids return, saying that the clothes are now dry and bring the clothes over. Camie introduces them as the "Medaka Mermaid Quintuplets". Camie says that her house is in the "Mermaid Cove" part of the sea floor and that it is a dormitory for the female staff of the town's "Mermaid Cafe" and that there are lots of beautiful mermaids working there as waitresses (including herself). Sanji nearly crumbles at the idea, but soon gets a hold of himself, resisting the nose bleeds. Camie says that they should go up top now. While at the Underwater Coral Mansion Camie instructs a turtle elevator to take them up top, she explains that her house is part of an underwater coral mansion. Because her rent is cheap, she lives on the bottom floor, while the top floors are more expensive as they receive more light. The Straw Hats ask about Hatchan. Camie tells him that he has been recuperating in the "Fish-Man District" as he is a Fish-Man. She says that it is a scary place but that she would guide them to it, as Luffy wishes to thank Hatchan face to face. They also ask about Pappag. Camie informs them that the starfish was now a super famous designer and lives in Gyoverly Hills (Similar to Beverly Hills), a high class district. She invites the Straw Hats to come along to visit as she has to take up clams there anyway. Luffy asks why Camie is not with him as she was his master. Camie replies, saying that she "does not fit in". Around them, there are straw like currents, "water roads" which are used to travel. The Straw Hats reach the surface, where there is a mermaid swimming in the sky through a Water Road. A female voice calls out Camie's name, to Sanji's surprise. A group of beautiful mermaids are shown, all marveling at the Straw Hats's feat of "illegal entry". Camie introduces them to the mermaids. Sanji starts crying and exclaims in exaggeration that he has found the All Blue. He becomes shocked that a mermaid held his hand and asked him to dance in the sea. However, two mermaids find an intriguing barrel (the one used to contain Caribou). They assume it's treasure or alcohol and note that its locked very tightly. One asks if they should open it.
At Noah, Hammond is seen asking what he should do. A silhouetted face tells him to bring him here (referring to Luffy).

The chapter begins with an infatuated Sanji playing in a pool with the mermaids in Mermaid Cove. The chef states his wish to live there, with a mermaid remarking how much fun he is. Luffy, soaking his feet on the side of the pool, comments on how nice it must be to swim. Camie suggests that Luffy could wear a bubble, much to his surprise. Usopp asks if Sanji is just acting the way he is out of nature. Chopper states that he is glad Sanji is back to normal, going on to say that his blood stock is out of Sanji's blood type, S RH-, an exceedingly rare blood type. Luffy tells Camie there is someone on the island he wants to meet. Camie asks if it is the Mermaid Princess, Luffy says it is not, and that he wants to see Jinbe, explaining how Jinbe helped him cope with the loss of his brother, Ace. Usopp asks if Luffy is referring to the ex-Shichibukai, to which Luffy replies yes, calling him his friend, much to Usopp's disbelief. Luffy then remembers Jinbe saying he would wait at Fish-Man Island for Luffy to get there. Luffy tells Camie about his promise to see him. Camie remembers reading an article where Luffy and Jinbe were seen together. When Luffy asks where he is, Camie replies that he is not on the island, going on to explain that after Jinbe abdicated his Shichibukai status, he could no longer stay on Fish-Man Island, so he and the Fish-Man Pirates had to leave. Luffy then asks if that meant he could not see him, and Camie explains that the details of why he left are complicated, and that after the war, a lot of things changed on Fish-Man Island.
They are interrupted by the Medaka Mermaid Quintuplets, who came to tell them that a ship is coming. Nika, one of the quintuplets, tells Camie it is a rare kingdom ship. Camie realizes that the ship might be coming to arrest Luffy, and tells him that he must hide. Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper all hide behind rocks, while Sanji, still in the water, is shielded from view by a mermaid, trying to tell him to hold still while hugging his head to her chest, which the chef appeared to enjoy immensely. The ship, identified by Camie as a royal gondola, essentially a large oarfish with some sort of carriage with oars sticking out built into it, approaches them. A nearby mermaid does not believe that there could actually be royalty aboard it, asking why they would come from Ryugu Palace to this little corner of the island. Trumpets then sound, heralding the arrival of the princes of Ryugu Kingdom, the Neptune brothers. One of them greets the mermaids, saying he has a question for them. Three mermaids shriek with joy at the sight of the princes, asking them why they are there while Luffy, hidden behind a nearby rock, quietly looks on. He then wonders why there would be princes at Mermaid Cove, as do Usopp and Chopper. The Neptune princes, Fukaboshi, Ryuboshi, and Manboshi, then come forth. Fukaboshi explains that they received a report of illegal entry, asking if anyone had come by there. The mermaids reply that no one has come by. One asks if the people they are looking for really are important enough for the three princes to look for them in person. Fukaboshi then states that they have not confirmed if the illegal entrants are the people they are looking for.
From a distance, Hammond is watching these events take place. He is with a Fish-Man and a sea monster. The Fish-Man calls the princes the three strongest of the Neptune Army. Hammond wonders why they are at the cove, saying it could be problematic. Fukaboshi then thanks the mermaids for their time, saying that he will continue searching elsewhere and that the border patrol must have made a mistake. He then apologizes to the mermaids for taking up their time, to which they reply that it was not any trouble at all. His brothers apologize as well. At this point, Sanji loses all self-control. The ability to contain himself became too much while his head was clutched against the mermaid's chest, and he erupts in his most massive nosebleed ever. The blood spurted extremely high, taking the shape of a mermaid doing a sexy pose. Chopper yells out in shock as he runs toward him. The mermaid holding him screams, not knowing what just happened. The bottom half of Sanji's face is completely covered in blood and there is a lot more of it in the water. Luffy remarks that Sanji just lost a dangerous amount of blood. Usopp realizes that Sanji could not handle the excitement after all, and keeping it suppressed caused him to explode like this. Fukaboshi, checking some of the crew's wanted posters, realizes that the person he is seeing now must be Monkey D. Luffy. He then orders his Ammo Knights to advance. Hammond realizes that the Straw Hat Pirates are there now too. One crew member suggests capturing them while another argues that it would be bad if they got into a fight with the Neptune Army and that the princes are there too.
Chopper runs to Sanji's side, telling the guards to wait a moment while apologizing for entering illegally and asking the guards to postpone their arrest. He then asks for someone to donate blood, saying if not treated, Sanji would be dead in about thirty minutes. Chopper said Sanji's blood type is S RH-, an extremely rare blood type. He asks if anyone could donate and if fish-man or merman blood could be transfused into a human's body. The guards stop in surprise. Luffy yells out, begging for someone to give Sanji blood. As some mermaids look on in fear, Chopper asks again if anyone has the necessary blood type. Usopp finishes the plea by saying that they cannot let Sanji die in such a stupid way. Camie tells Chopper that humans, mermen, and Fish-Men all share the same blood and it is transfusable. She is about to explain more but is interrupted by laughter. The laughter came from Hammond. He tells the Straw Hat Pirates that they must be out of their minds and that there is not a single creature on the island who would give blood to humans and if someone did, they would get a "judgment in the dark" from someone who hates humans. Luffy then recognizes Hammond from their earlier encounter as Camie suddenly dives under the water. One of the guards tells Fukaboshi that the person talking is Hammond from the Fish-Man District. Hammond tells Sanji to stay bleeding as he is and to die helplessly. He then tells about the rule put in place long ago, forbidding fish-men and humans from sharing blood. Usopp and Luffy look at him in disbelief. Hammond goes on to explain that the rule, ironic to the situation, was put in place by humans, fearing the fish-men as monsters, to prevent the mixing of bloodlines.
Fisher Tiger died as a result of this rule. During a bloody battle, he needed a transfusion badly. Humans prevented the transfusion from taking place and Fisher Tiger died as a result. Hammond then ordered them to abandon the life of one crew member and come with them to the Fish-Man District, as their boss, Hody Jones, wished to see them. Usopp then shouted that he did not know the detail of that law, and that if someone with S RH- blood came forth to help, he would thank them in any way possible. Hammond, ignoring Usopp, remarks that they will just have to take the Straw Hat Pirates by force.
He shoots a Utase Ami from a gun at them. Luffy sweeps the flying net out of the way, saying he would not listen to Hammond and that he had told him this earlier. He then proceeds to knock out Hammond and his accomplices with one Gomu Gomu no Jet Pistol each. Fukaboshi and some mermaids look on in shock while Ryuboshi begins to draw his sword. Hammond and the two other pirates have been knocked out cold. Someone then yells that Luffy forgot to deal with their sea monster. Luffy dispatches the monster by using Haoushoku Haki, intimidating it enough so that it would not fight, but not enough to faint. Chopper and Usopp were shocked at how the monster realized its own defeat without actually fighting.
Fukaboshi does not seem phased by this, saying he expected it, causing his brother to reply in disbelief. Camie then reappears, having hijacked the royal gondola. She tells them they should go into town, as she saw a lot of humans at the port. Camie then apologizes to the guards, promising to return the giant oarfish to them. Once everyone is on board, they set off, leaving everyone else, including the princes, at Mermaid Cove. On the gondola, Camie apologizes, saying she would be willing to help if she were the right blood type for Sanji, but she is not. Usopp tells her she has nothing to be sorry for, as it all goes back to Sanji having impure thoughts, pointing out the smirk on the chef's face as evidence. Chopper tells Sanji not to think of anything, as every second is precious.
Usopp then comments about the discrimination Camie and Hatchan faced at Sabaody Archipelago two years ago, and how its roots run very deep. He follows up by saying he never thought that Sanji's perverted nosebleeds would lead to something this dire. Camie changes the subject, saying she is worried about reaching town since she did not know if they would be able to find a compatible donor for Sanji. The reason for this is because no humans have visited Fish-Man Island in the past month except the Straw Hat Pirates. One of the Straw Hats asks why that is since the island is a famous spock. Camie corrects him by saying it is a famous spot, but she does not know why there have not been any humans. She said there are rumors going throughout the kingdom that someone might be pulling the strings behind it.
Back at Mermaid Cove, Fukaboshi is talking to the Mermaids, saying them covering for the pirates created a huge problem, asking why they did it. The mermaids apologize, saying that the pirates were not bad people and friends of Camie's and that they did not want the crew to get arrested for illegal entry. One mermaid says she hopes Sanji will be alright. Fukaboshi told the mermaids they were jumping to conclusions. Since the Straw Hat Pirates are already infamous pirates, it did not matter if they entered illegally, since the army more or less knew who they were dealing with. Ryuboshi adds that they were looking for them for a different reason. Behind a surprised mermaid, Caribou's barrel can be seen, still sealed, with Caribou apparently listening intently. Fukaboshi states that they had just lost their chance to give the Straw Hats a message from Jinbe.

In the port town of Coral Hill, Sanji is waking up after having received donor blood. He asks where he is and Camie tells him he is at her friend's house. Chopper collapses face first on the bed, saying how happy he is to have found donor blood. Sanji, confused by Chopper's talk about blood, sits up while asking what happened. Camie quickly tells him to lie back down. Luffy, sprawled out in a chair, asks why no fish-men would help them, saying they had been all over the island. Usopp proceeds to say that he thought Sanji was a goner. Sanji, touched by his friends' concern, thanks them. He then tries to remember what happened to put him in such a state, but has difficulties doing so. Luffy and Usopp implore him to stop remembering, as he will lose blood again and there would be nothing they could do to help him again.
Usopp points to a curtain where only a hand is visible, saying they found the donor at a pub. From behind the curtain, Sanji hears a feminine voice. He then asks if they took the blood from a fragile young lady. Usopp pulls back the curtain to reveal two okama, the pirate twins Splash and Splatter. One of them even offers him more blood if it was necessary. Sanji screams and foams at the mouth in shock. While Usopp is telling Sanji to thank them, Chopper realizes that Luffy had been poisoned, noticing the entry point on his arm. Chopper is amazed at how Luffy did not react at all to such a deadly poison and that he already had antibodies to counter it. Luffy remembers Magellan's poisons almost killing him in Impel Down and gives that as the reason for his immunity. Luffy remembers the merman with the sword and the octopus legs, and attributes the poison to him, saying he seems strong.
The scene then changes to the merman in question. He is carrying the unconscious bodies of Hammond and the unnamed ally. The man Luffy was referring to is named Hyouzou, a poison blue-ringed octopus merman, and an assassin for the New Fish-Man Pirates. Hyouzou hears a scream coming from the cove. He just thinks it is noisy Mermaids having fun. A mermaid says that the scream came from Ishilly's group. Another Mermaid said she had heard it from where she was, and that Ishilly had mentioned something about opening a barrel. The barrel in question was the barrel that was keeping Caribou a prisoner. It is now broken open with no sign of Caribou.
The scene changes to the back of the Mermaid Cafe. Camie is talking to her boss, Madam Shyarly, who was asking about Sanji's well being. Camie thanks her for letting them borrow a room, and then asks Madam Shyarly not to go in to see Sanji as she is beautiful, therefore dangerous to Sanji. She also asks her to keep it a secret from Sanji that he is in the back of the Mermaid Cafe. Camie tells her that Chopper told her they would be in big trouble if Sanji found out where he was. Madam Shyarly comments on the irregularity of Chopper and Camie's requests. Luffy and Usopp find Shyarly's crystal ball, which she tells them not to touch. Camie explains to them that Shyarly is a fortune teller, and is rather well known.
Shyarly however, states that she is retired, as the future is better left unknown. Luffy then asks her "So, do mermaids poop?", and Usopp asks why he used "so" in his question. This angers Shyarly who calls Luffy a vulgar child. Camie quickly tell him to apologize, which he did. Shyarly then tells Camie to take the rest of the day off and show her friends the island. She says not to worry about the influx of human pirate customers, as she has enough hired help to start handling the crowd. The "star" part of the word "start" make Camie remember Pappag, and how she had to deliver a clam to him. Shyarly tells her that Pappag is in the cafe, making a ruckus about some old friend of his.
After leaving the room, Camie tells the Straw Hats about some of Madam Shyarly's famous predictions, such as predicting the Great Age of Pirates one year ahead of time. She also accurately predicted the war at Marineford and Whitebeard's death. Because of her accuracy at predicting disasters, she has come to hate her ability to see the future. She takes them to the main street of Coral Hill and the front entrance of the Mermaid Cafe. When Luffy stated how hungry he was, Camie said they have cakes, sea fruits, and shellfish, but no meat in the sense Luffy was thinking. Usopp tries to distract Luffy from his bitterness about the lack of meat by reminding him Pappag is inside.
That friend that Pappag was talking about turned out to be Brook. Pappag was glad to see Luffy and Usopp. Brook has a mermaid on either side of him. One of them kisses him on the cheek, telling him to come back soon, saying the whole time he was there was like a dream come true. After telling them he will be back, brook launches into a slew of his bone jokes, bodily jokes, and already dead jokes. Usopp was surprised by Brook's excitement. Pappag interrupts, saying he was about to show Brook his estate.
Pappag entices Luffy with sea monster meat, saying it is a staple of his diet and he always has a lot in his house. Camie gives him the Orient clam, which delights the starfish. Usopp was confused since it was a shellfish. Camie explained that fish-men can eat meat and fish while mermaids cannot. Luffy is relieved to hear there is meat on the island after all. As they call a taxi, Brook notices a wanted poster of Vander Decken. Pappag was surprised that the crew had met him, telling them he is like a bandit of the sea floor and the whole country has been searching for him for years. He then tells them to get on the taxi.
Pappag explained that it started with Vander Decken IX sending a letter once a week to the Mermaid Princess. The letters eventually became packages which eventually became threatening marriage proposals. The princess became too scared to ignore him any longer. Camie chimes in, adding that her father, King Neptune, became angry and had his three sons form an army. They have been searching for him without any success. Pappag tries to interrupt her, saying he had just been explaining that.
Camie summarizes it by saying that the Mermaid Princess is the younger sister to the three princes, and King Neptune is the father of all four of them. Brook then says he wants to hear about how Vander Decken, a pirate who was cursed hundreds of years ago, plays into it. Pappag explained that legends tend to get exaggerated, but that the "mad captain" known as Vander Decken really did exist. The legend had it that he came to Fish-Man Island and died. The ship they saw was the real Flying Dutchman, but the captain was his grandson (Camie interrupts here again to finish the story, leaving Pappag in despair), Vander Decken IX. Brook makes another joke about how seeing Vander Decken nearly scared the life right out of him.
Luffy then redirects the conversation by pointing out how a mermaid has split fins similar to Kokoro's. He asks Camie if that is how her fins will looks when she reaches age 30, to which she replies yes. Luffy then sees a fish-man dad with an older fish-man child and a merman baby. Luffy remarked how fun the variety in sizes and colors of each species. Pappag explains that when a Fish-Man and Mermaid marry, they could either have a baby that is Merman/maid or Fish-Man/woman, so there are four types of patterns. As they are about to get on a highway, Luffy asks about something in the distance.
Pappag replies that it is the Candy Factory. Luffy asks why there is a pirate flag on it. Pappag tells him there is a similar one at the entrance to port, as the island is now under the protection of Charlotte Linlin, also known as Big Mom, the Emperor. Pappag explains that after the war, Big Mom started protecting the island since Whitebeard had died. In return for her protection, she demands a large amount of candy every month. Camie explains that the island is so dangerous that they need something big protecting it, otherwise, the government could not function. Luffy thinks Big Mom must be nice if she decided to protect Fish-Man Island. Pappag said that Whitebeard did not require collateral, and that Big Mom might be looking at it from a business perspective. Luffy says she is one of the Four Emperors, like Shanks, and wonders if he will ever meet her some day.
Their taxi then arrives in Gyoverly Hills, where everyone is amazed by the size of Pappag's house. Back in Coral Hill, Madame Shyarly is making a scene outside, saying something is going to be catastrophic. Everyone is asking her what is wrong. She tells them to go and find the pirate wearing a straw hat (Luffy) and send him out of the country at once. A man asks what is going on and if she saw something in her crystal ball. Shyarly explains that she did not mean to see it, but she felt something from Luffy which prompted her to look into the future. Hiding her head in her hands, she says she hopes she is wrong. The fortune foretold that Fish-Man Island would be destroyed by Luffy's hand.

The chapter begins in Noah, where people are seen escaping onto a ship. Someone gives an order for the men to be quiet and board the ship. One man says they were able to escape before they were found. Another voice says they are never coming back to Fish-Man Island again and they should abandon all hope of ever entering the Mermaid Cafe. The captain, pirate "Crab-Hand" Gyro, a pirate from South Blue, remarks how terrible their trip has been, recalling getting attacked by the kraken and then ambushed by the New Fish-Man Pirates and being forced to join them. One of his crew comes up to him in tears saying he had always dreamed of going to the Mermaid Cafe. His captain tells him to abandon all hope, saying they were lucky to escape with their lives. Next, Jones is seen asking if the crew had escaped, to which a subordinate replied that they had. Jones and his officers are then shown, talking about what to do about the human crew. Ikaros asks if he could take care of the crew. Jones says no and takes a few pills from a bowl. His muscle mass then expands and his eyes change.
The scene then changes to Pappag's house. Pappag is bragging how on Fish-Man Island he is the president and celebrity designer of the Criminal Brand Company. He goes on to say how he will open up shops all over the world and then mentions something about approaching Doskoi Panda. He then starts sobbing as Luffy had noticed something and was starting to talk over him. Camie tells Luffy that there is a Criminal shop on the first floor and realizes that someone is getting excited inside. A voice is then heard complaining about the store's high prices. They go inside and see Nami negotiating with the clerk, asking for less than half price for the clothes. Usopp is not surprised to see she is the one complaining. Luffy calls out to her, and Nami is happy to see him and Camie. The clerk is relieved to see Pappag and tells him about the unhappy customer. Nami picks up the starfish by the cheek and asks him why the prices are so high. Pappag explains it is since Criminal is a brand name and he is a popular designer. Nami demands a discount. Pappag tells her that he owes them for what they did two years ago, so she can take everything she wants for free. Nami, Luffy, Usopp, and Brook then proceed to empty the store of all merchandise, while Pappag yells at them to show restraint. There is then a commotion outside. One of Pappag's employees runs in, saying there trouble. Someone, described only as "you know who", was coming from the Ryugu Palace. They look up in the sky to see a whale. Camie and Pappag instantly recognize the person, Camie stating this is the first time she has seen him in person. One person wonders why he came alone instead of bringing the army with him. People wonder if the country is in peril or if pirates have invaded the island. Someone yells for an evacuation. The man in question turned out to be King Neptune, riding on his whale, Hoe. Usopp comments on Neptune's size, Brook says he prefers mermaids, Luffy remarks how weird looking the Merman is. Pappag tugs at Luffy's face, asking if he knew how rude he was being. Nami comments on how cute the whale looks. Neptune approaches the pirates, much to the surprise of the locals. Neptune asks Megalo (the shark that the Straw Hats had freed from the kraken) if he had the right people. The shark nods and Nami recognizes him from earlier. Neptune calls out to the crew, calling them "Straw Hat humans", and invites them to Ryugu Palace. Camie and Pappag are shocked out of their minds but Luffy seems confused.
The scene then changes back to the pirates from the beginning of the chapter. Someone on the ship is shouting for them to hurry up, or they will be noticed. Someone else says that it is hard to catch a current in the Deep Sea and adds that they should have fixed the ship with a paddle. Two crew members notice something in front of the ship. It is Hody Jones. Jones holds up his wrists to show he is handcuffed. Ikaros Much comments on how the Energy Steroid is a real treasure. Meanwhile, Jones has slammed into the ship and has bored a hole in the port side hull of the ship. One pirate calls for them to take out the fish-man, as he is all alone. Jones then bursts up through the deck, catching a crew member in his teeth and sending two others flying. Gyro then states he has fought fish-men before and overcame everything in front of him to come this far. He attacks Jones with his claw and Jones bites off part of Gyro's arm, breaking the claw. The crew then fires on the fish-man, but he emerges largely unscathed. He then bites into the mast of the ship and throws it away. A crew member realizes why Jones wore the handcuffs, to show that he could beat them without using his hands. Zeo, while holding an Energy Steroid, states that fish-men are naturally born with ten times the strength of humans. One Energy Steroid raises their power two-fold, and taking two would boost their power another two-fold, so four-fold, and since Jones took four, he is at least 160 times stronger than a normal human. In exchange, part of their life is shaved away. They do not care, as they will carry out their plans without the fear of death. Jones goes on to talk about how Fisher Tiger's life was destroyed by humans, as was Arlong's will. He goes on to say that the fish-men will end their dark history in this generation. The mast that was bitten off is now thrown upside down back through the deck, impaling the ship which is now trapped in a bubble. As he breaks off his handcuffs, Jones gives the order for the bubble to be sent back up to the New World, stating with some disappointment that the whole crew did not die. He says he needs them alive, he wants them to go back up to the surface and tell the humans what happened to them and who did it, and spread fear. He then declares that they will steal back Fish-Man Island, what he calls the center of the world, from Neptune, and pull all the humans down to the abyss that is the bottom of the sea, and teach them that fish-men are the supreme race.

The chapter begins by going back to Mermaid Cove a few hours prior to the present storyline. Ishilly is prying off the metal holds off of Caribou's barrel with a crowbar, wondering what is inside it. She thinks the barrels are sealed so tightly because it contains high-end expensive alcohol. She gets some of the holds off, which is enough to allow Caribou to break out. As Caribou breaks out, he thanks the mermaids. The terrified mermaids scream and Caribou tells them not to go anywhere. Ishilly yells for everyone to get into the water, but Caribou says that it is too late and turns his midsection into his Logia form, thanking Ishilly for freeing him once more. One mermaid yells out that her body is sinking, while another one realizes it is a swamp and asks why there is a swamp in the middle of the rocks. Caribou says that they are in a bottomless bog that is impossible to escape from. He tells them he is a "swamp man" who ate the Numa Numa no Mi. He then tells them that struggling will cause them to sink more and that they shouldn't scream or worry as he will not kill them. Ishilly tries to call for help but Caribou covers her mouth with one of his hands in swamp form, calling her naughty for not doing as she was told. Another mermaid calls out for Ishilly, but Caribou does the same to her, telling her she has to "go sleepy-bye" for a bit. The last things seen above the swamp are the sinking hands of one of the mermaids. Caribou then reverts back to his human form, talking about how his body is infinite and forgetting how much mermaids cost. He remembers that at the Human Auctioning House, they would sell for about 70,000,000 each and gets excited when he realizes how much he could get with three of them. He then realizes that he owes all of this to the Straw Hat Pirates. Their illegal entry made it so that he would not have to be subjected to any kind of immigration examination. He is now free to hunt as many mermaids as he wants, calling it a "treasure island", and then laughs happily.
Back to the present, in Coral Hill, a lot of people have gathered outside the Mermaid Cafe. The Straw Hat Pirates are believed to be behind the kidnappings at Mermaid Cove. Hiramera tells the crowd that she never explicitly stated that they were the culprits and that they were nice people and friends of Camie's. A voice in the crowd suggests they were threatened. The crew's wanted posters are spread out, with an Ammo Knight saying the only truth they know is the only people at the cove other than the mermaids were the Ammo Knights, the defeated New Fish-Man Pirates, and the Straw Hats. Another knight adds that humans always have a reason for kidnapping mermaids, mentioning their high value on the slave market. A man says that they cannot suspect the Straw Hats exclusively like that. Another knight asks him if he has any idea how many pirates look innocent to get close to mermaids and then kidnap them. Meanwhile, Fukaboshi asks Madam Shyarly if she really did have a vision of Luffy destroying Fish-Man Island. A mermaid brings her a cup of water. Having calmed down, she tells Fukaboshi that her vision was the truth. Fukaboshi tells Shyarly that the accuracy of her predictions is even apparent to those who live in Ryugu Palace. This complicates their plans to get in contact with the Straw Hats as they were indebted to them for saving their sister's pet, but due to the prediction the pirates cannot be left at large, and they must "deal" with the pirates now.
Over in Gyoverly Hills, residents are still looking up at the sky in awe as the Straw Hats ascend with King Neptune to the Ryugu Palace. The Straw Hats, Camie, and Pappag ride on Megalo while Neptune rides on Hoe as he calls to them not to fall off. Luffy asks why that old guy is shouting so loudly. Pappag is appalled and tells Luffy to be more respectful and Pappag is now frightened of Luffy. Neptune explains that Megalo is his daughter's beloved pet. She could not stop crying over how Megalo had not come home, that Neptune did not know what to do with her. He thinks about how dangerous fighting the Kraken must have been, and thanks them for their great work. Luffy tells him that it was just a coincidence but he was glad to help. Pappag thinks about the Mermaid Princess and Brook asks him if he was right in remembering that Pappag was once best friends with the princess. Pappag gives him a long "ssshhh" and Brook realizes it was a lie. Camie asks Usopp if he was sure it was ok for her and Pappag to go to the palace too. Usopp says that Neptune told them to bring their company, so it was fine. Neptune tells them that he had sent his sons out to get them, but when they did not come back, he went out himself. He says that he was excited for the banquet's menu, and wanted to start as soon as possible. He then remembers that one of the Straw Hats was already at the palace. He had already started drinking, and would not listen when Neptune suggested it would be more fun for everyone to drink together. Usopp asks if it was Zoro. Nami states it was Zoro. King Neptune then says that he thought his name was Zori and gets corrected with the right name.
Neptune goes on to tell them that his soldiers will find all of the other Straw Hats and bring them to the castle. Luffy asks Nami if she knew where the others went. Nami told them that Franky went to look for one of Tom's relatives and Robin went to look up some important history, so the three split up. She tells them that they did not really have too many problems. Nami then asks Neptune a question, calling him grandpa, causing Pappag to comically bite her on the head and tell her to call him god of the sea, Master Neptune. She asks why Fish-Man Island is so bright despite being 10,000 meters below the surface. Neptune tells her that Fish-Man Island came to be when fish-men began living on the sea floor where there was light. He explained that the roots from a tree called Sunlight Tree Eve reach down to the sea floor and transfer light to Fish-Man Island. Scholars have come up with a scientific reason behind how it works, but it is still considered a mysterious, sacred tree whose roots emit the light it absorbs from the surface. The roots also supply air to the ocean floor by breathing. Usopp considers it like the boss of the Yarukiman Mangroves at Sabaody. When the sun is out, there will be light on Fish-Man Island, which means it will also be dark at night. Neptune considers the sun a blessing that many take for granted. Usopp takes notes about it to tell Franky later as the Sunlight Tree Eve could have a connection to the Treasure Tree Adam. Nami says the tree's name while being lost in thought. Luffy tells Neptune he is hungry, calling him grandpa again, much to Pappag's annoyance as they approach the entrance to the palace, the outside of a giant, dark bubble. Neptune rings a doorbell, saying it is him. A stammering voice says they will open the gate at once. Once they were in the corridor beyond the gate, Neptune says "let's go", in excitement, shouting his own name as a battle cry. He calls to Megalo to keep the bubble tight. Luffy says that he is excited to see the palace.
Upon arriving at the palace, everyone looks at it in awe. Luffy thinks that it looks cool. Brook says it made Pappag's mansion look like a flea, prompting the starfish to tell him not to compare them. Nami marvels at its beauty. Camie chatters her teeth while being speechless. Voices are heard saying that the king has returned. Luffy says that it looked like a cool palace with a lot of stuff. Neptune answers him bluntly saying of course it would as it is his castle. He then tells everyone to enjoy themselves. Once inside the castle, two men instantly start berating Neptune for going out on his own. He tells them he will be sure to be more careful in the future. Everyone but Luffy watch this scene, realizing the king is getting yelled at and told off like a child. Luffy, on the other hand, has caught the aroma of something pleasant. Neptune tells the men that he brought the people who saved Megalo from the Kraken. He also asks where his daughter, Princess Shirahoshi, is. The men tell him that "it" happened again just a moment ago. Neptune gets angry, telling the men that they did not set her up with the proper guarding to keep her from getting upset. One of the men retorts that the king disappearing during such a critical time would get the whole castle upset. He then lowers his head, apologizing and promising to take better care next time. The Straw Hats realize he is getting yelled at again. The two men who were berating the king are the Minister of the Right, a seahorse merman and the Minister of the Left, a catfish merman. The Minister of the Right apologizes for berating the king in front of his guests, but they have something important to discuss with him. The Minister of the Left tells them they received a message from Fukaboshi. As they go on to tell him, the scene switches back to the Straw Hats. Nami wonders where Luffy went. Brook wonders when the banquet would start. Usopp says that Luffy was with them just a minute ago and that he cannot hold still. Pappag wonders in horror what Luffy could be doing wandering around the sacred land.
Luffy has followed his nose but lost the scent. He sees a door that he thought the smell of the food originated from. The double door in question was huge, made of mostly metal, and had two sets of handles, ring knockers high above and then regular handles near ground level. Embedded in the doors were three swords and a double-bladed axe. Embedded in the wall around the doorway was an axe, another sword, and the head of a morning star. Luffy, completely ignoring the weapons embedded in the doors and walls, walks over to the door. He says the sturdy look of the walls reminds him of Impel Down. He wonders how good the food behind that sturdy door could be. When he goes through the door, it is pitch black, but Luffy sees food on the other side of the room, making him wonder if the room was the banquet hall. He then wonders if he had found the food vault. Luffy then decides that he would only take a little bit of the food, as his stomach was at its limit. While running across the room, he crashes into something. He thought it was coral that felt really soft. When he first touches the coral, he hears a grunt, but thought it was someone outside. He then began jumping on the coral, comparing its consistency to pudding. He then hears someone ask if someone was in the room. A light suddenly came on and Luffy suddenly begins to fall. He falls next to a gargantuan giant smelt-whiting mermaid, the Mermaid Princess, Shirahoshi. What he had thought was coral was actually the coarse material of her top and the softness he felt was actually her breast. She asks him what he was doing on someone else's body and who he was. Luffy is amazed by the size of the princess. She then asks him if he was here to take her life too, and that she was not scared. She tries to hide her fear by saying she is the daughter of Neptune. But, she could not hold back her tears, which were so big that Luffy had to actually dodge the falling water droplets. She then yells for her father and brothers to help her, as Luffy pointed out that he wasn't doing anything to her.

The chapter starts with Vander Decken IX and Wadatsumi on the sea floor, waiting for a response from Princess Shirahoshi. Decken IX blames King Neptune, believing he is trying to set up an arranged marriage for the princess for political reasons and as a proof, he locked her in a steel tower for ten years. Vander Decken IX is revealed to be Japanese bullhead shark fish-man. He then takes out a giant axe with a rose painted on it and, using his curse, throws it towards her, claiming that no one will marry her but him and he will kill her if she marries anyone else. The axe, however, turns around and cuts off the mast of the ship. The crew of the Flying Pirates point out that he missed. Vander Decken IX responds by saying he never miss and goes on to say that Shirahoshi's fate is either marriage to him or death.
At Ryugu Palace, guards rush to Princess Shirahoshi's room. The princess cries for help as Luffy explains he was only looking for food. Then, the axe that Decken IX threw flies into the room, but Luffy detected it and deflected it, saving the princess. When the guards finally get to the room, the princess hides Luffy in her hand and places him behind her back. The Minister of the Right asks if she is alright, and she says that she just had a nightmare and apologizes for making them worry. The guards then say they are looking for Luffy, who had snuck away from his crew. Due to the suspicions of kidnappings, and Madam Shyarly's predictions, it has been decided that the Straw Hats will be held in the castle's prison, and Zoro had already been captured. The Minister of the Right then checks his watch and notices that five minutes have passed and must be going.
The princess first thanks Luffy and apologizes for her rudeness, asking for forgiveness. Shirahoshi says that she never imagined Luffy was the one who saved Megalo. She asks if he is Luffy, which the pirate says he is. She asks Luffy if he is a bad person for being a pirate, and Luffy replies that it is for her to decide. When she asks about his crew, Luffy says that it is alright, as there was no way they could actually be captured. Luffy then asks her about the axe and who threw it. She explains that the axe was thrown by Vander Decken IX using his Mato Mato curse, and that she was put in the tower for her protection. She also said that she had been there for ten years with her only companion being Megalo, and that soldiers could only stay in the room for five minutes. She cannot leave the tower for fear of her life. Luffy then understands why the feast was being held.
While Luffy is eating, Shirahoshi comments on his size being able to eat so much for someone so small. Luffy explains that Neptune was going to start the feast but kept getting yelled at, so he followed the scent of food. Luffy remembers that the guards called her princess, so she must be the Mermaid Princess. Shirahoshi says yes and introduces herself. Luffy says that her name is really hard to say. She comments on how Luffy really does not look like a bad person. She asks him if he goes on adventures since he is a pirate. She then asks him if he has seen the sun, or come across different flowers, furry animals, or forests. Luffy tells her not to ask so many questions while he is eating. She comments on the size of Luffy's cheeks and pokes them. Luffy yells at her for poking his cheeks while he was eating. The princess starts crying while telling him not to chastise her so loudly, saying he really is a scary person, and that she had never been yelled at before. Luffy then asks her why she is crying this time and tells her to stop. He also asks how someone so big could be such a crybaby. After that, he says that he does not like her causing her to cry even more. Shirahoshi states that she had never heard such words, calling Luffy a horrible man, and telling him to leave. She then says that she cannot take it anymore as Megalo growls at Luffy. Luffy then says he ate a lot and compliments the food. He says that being locked away for ten years would make him sick. The princess tells him to hurry and leave. Luffy asks her if there is anywhere she'd like to go. She says that there are several, but Luffy does not let her finish her sentence. He offers to go for a walk with the princess and protect her if any weapons flew at her, much to the princess' shock.
At the palace halls, Camie tells Usopp, Nami, and Brook that if they resist any further, they really will be considered criminals instead of just threats. Brook tells Camie that they have no reason for obeying them. Usopp tells her that they will be arrested if they do not resist, and that the guards are the one who came at them for some crazy reason. Usopp asks if she really thinks that they are going to let themselves get captured because of something they may do in the future. Brook pulls out his sword, saying he will fight as many of them as they wish. A guard remarks how many incidents the pirates have caused and that they are unbelievably strong even without their captain. Nami says she was really looking forward to the alcohol they would serve in the Ryugu Kingdom. Pappag is amazed at how confident Usopp is. The Minister of the Left tells the soldiers not to faulter, as this is surely a "prologue" for what is to come. He tells them to defeat the pirates at all costs and protect the country. Usopp tells him that if the guards had not attacked them in the first place, they would have no reason to go as wild as they are. Usopp then says that the crowd of guards is nothing compared to the collective insect attacks when he was on the Boin Archipelago. He then introduces his new weapon, the Black Kabuto. The Minister of the Left asks Neptune to use his power to help the guards. King Neptune says he wants more time to decide whether or not it is alright to arrest people because of a prediction, but tells the guards to capture them for now. Brook gets ready to block as Neptune is about to strike the pirates with his trident. However, Zoro appears and blocks the attack. Nami and Usopp are shocked to see him. Usopp says that he thought he was in prison. Zoro says that he heard a party getting started, so he came out.
The scene changes to Noah, where someone is alerting Jones of the arrival of Vander Decken IX. Vander Decken IX tells Wadatsumi to stay put. As he is led to Jones, Decken apologizes for being late, as he ran into some volcanic activity, and asks him if he is talking to the infamous Hody Jones. Jones says that they are both infamous. Both say that they are pleased to do business with the other. Jones goes in for a handshake, but Decken tells him to wait a moment as he puts on a glove. Jones says that their alliance is toward a single goal from which they would both profit. Their goal is to crush the Neptune Army and take Neptune's head. Zeo says that they are now invincible on the ocean floor, to which Daruma responds that two very powerful people just teamed up. The chapter ends with Jones and Decken saying the complete collapse of the Ryugu Kingdom will happen once they take Neptune's head.

The chapter starts with the Straw Hats arguing in the palace. They have successfully defeated and tied up Neptune, the Minister of the Right, the Minister of the Left, and all of the palace guards and are arguing about why things went wrong so quickly. While arguing, they realize that Luffy is nowhere to be seen. Nami goes over to one of the tied up guards and asks to not be mean as they are in a hurry and to tell her something. Usopp asks him where Luffy is, but Nami asks him where the treasury room is, much to Usopp's annoyance. Nami asks why Usopp is annoyed at her, while trying to look innocent. Usopp yells at her to use some discretion. Brook tries to cheer everyone up by starting to sing, but is quickly told to shut up by Usopp. The Minister of the Right asks Neptune if he is alright. The king replies that he has not been suited for fighting ever since he strained his back, realizing that he has gotten old. He then apologizes for being unprepared. The Minister of the Right then yells at the Straw Hats, saying that they will not get off easily once the princes return. He then says that the castle should have filled with water, so the pirates would not stand a chance in battle, but unfortunately was drained out. The Straw Hats agree that they cannot stay on Fish-Man Island any longer. Zoro asks where the Thousand Sunny is, saying they should get everyone on board and head out right away. Usopp points out that the coating was taken off the ship when they went through the bubble and Nami said that the Log Pose was acting strange and had yet to lock onto another island. The Minister of the Left then tells them that they could never get to the New World with such a simple Log Pose. Nami asks him what he means and the Minister of the Left tells her that he would explain further if she untied him. Before she can answer him a loud doorbell is heard. The Minister of the Right realizes that it must be the princes.
The scene changes to outside the giant bubble containing the palace. The princes are waiting on their gondola for the gate to open, finding it odd that there are no guards there. A voice comes through on an intercom, asking who it is, another voice says not to answer. More voices call out for help to the princes, while another voice tells them to be quiet. Ryuboshi realizes that something must have happened in the palace. Manboshi agrees, wondering if their father and sister are alright. Fukaboshi tells the voice on the other side of the intercom who he is, and asks him to drop down the connecting corridor and to open the main gate and royal gate to the palace. Zoro, who is the one using a Den Den Mushi to speak to the princes, asks what would happen if they did, and saying sorry as he could not let them in. Usopp cannot believe what Zoro is saying, and yells at him to tell the truth.
Pappag asks that he and Camie be tied up along with everyone else, so that way they do not look like accomplices. Camie tells Zoro she is scared. Fukaboshi asks which Straw Hat he is speaking with. Neptune yells to his son that he is "Pirate Hunter" Zori, causing Zoro to angrily correct him. Zoro tells the princes they have a lot of hostages on their side, including Neptune, and if they cared about the hostages' lives, they would make arrangements for the Straw Hats to depart quickly. He also asked them to round up the remaining crew members: a dark girl (Robin), a robot (Franky), a raccoon (Chopper), and a perverted imp (Sanji). Nami tells him to ask for one billion belly as well, causing Usopp to yell at her to stop. Brook is laughing at Sanji being called a perverted imp, saying it hit his funny bone (another bone joke).
Fukaboshi goes over the basics of the demands. They let all of the Straw Hats leave as quickly as possible and the Straw Hats will not harm the hostages. One of his brothers objects, but Fukaboshi tells they have no other choice, as the corridor is the only way into the palace, as the layers of bubble surrounding the palace make any other form of entry impossible. Fukaboshi asks Zoro if he could tell him something. He did not want to tell the pirates this in such awkward circumstances, but he had a duty to Jinbe. He said he had two messages given to him directly by Jinbe that were supposed to be given to the pirates upon their arrival. The hostages murmur Jinbe's name in surprise amongst themselves. Usopp remembers Luffy saying that he was friends with Jinbe. Pappag adds that even though he is a pirate he is very well trusted on the island. Zoro tells Fukaboshi that Luffy is not with them, but he will convey the messages to him. The messages are "Don't fight Hody" and "I'm waiting in the Sea Forest". Zoro seemed confused by the message.
Back in Coral Hill, people are gathering, talking about how the Straw Hats actually took over Ryugu Palace. Someone wondered what they were planning to do. One mermaid cannot believe it, as she thought they looked nice people. Nika asked how they could do something like that. One man said that they must be the ones kidnapping mermaids and must definitely be the ones who appeared in Madam Shyarly's vision, and that thing are happening just as she predicted. Someone says that two of them are in the back of the Mermaid Cafe and a police squadron went to arrest them just now. Just then, a blast is seen coming from the back of the cafe.
Chopper is fighting several guards using a new technique: Kung Fu Point. Chopper, now much wider as a result of his transformation, tells the guards to move and not to disturb Sanji, as he is still recovering. He then asks what the guards meant by asking him to come to the Ryugu Palace, and if they were really there to arrest him and Sanji. Sanji walks through the rubble and says hello. Chopper tells him he cannot move around yet. Sanji asks one of the guards if the Mermaid Princess is in the Ryugu Palace. The guard says she is, but asks why Sanji wants to know. Sanji then declared he is going to the palace, even if it kills him. Chopper asked him if he understood that he would die instantly if the princess was beautiful.
Back at the palace, Luffy is talking with Shirahoshi. He is trying to convince her to go outside. He says he remembered she has somewhere she wants to go, and that he would go crazy if he were shut up in a room for ten years. He tells her it would be his way of thanking her for the food. Shirahoshi argues that it would be selfish and cause trouble for people at the palace. Luffy cuts her off asking her where she wants to go. At first she is hesitant about answering, but after a couple of seconds replies that she wants to go to the Sea Forest. She then goes back to saying that it would be selfish and is only a dream and starts crying. Luffy asks her why she is crying after telling him where she wants to go. She apologizes, saying she mustered too much courage. Luffy calls her a pain, hurting her again, but quickly apologizes. They then hear a loud noise outside the tower. Luffy comments on how loud it was. Luffy asked if something was thrown at them again, saying Vander Decken was a problem.
Neptune hears the sound too, and it worries him. He thinks it could be one of Decken's weapons and it came from the tower. He asked if there were guards posted by her door. He is told no, as they are all tied up with him. He then tells the Straw Hats to go make sure Shirahoshi is safe. Zoro wonders what the king is talking about. One of the guards objects, but Neptune tells him that some problems cannot be avoided without sacrifices. Neptune tells them that the tower is in the northeast part of the palace. When Zoro asks why they should take orders from a hostage, Neptune snaps at him, saying that Shirahoshi is his only daughter, and due to extenuating circumstances is being targeted for her life.
If anything happened to her while he is incapacitated, he would chase them to the ends of the ocean. Brook realizes that the daughter he is talking about must be the Mermaid Princess. He says that he will hurry to her, and asks if it is okay to ask to see her panties. The Minister of the Left is then scared for the princess' safety from Brook. The Minister of the Right asks Brook to take him along, leaving him tied up. Shirahoshi's tower is under his jurisdiction in the palace, and he would not be able to take it if something happened to her. Brook slings him over his shoulder, asking the minister if he is a fan too (referring to the princess' panties), to which the Minister of the Right replies not to be ridiculous. The Minister of the Left is furious, as Brook jokes that he will be going in front of Sanji.
The scene changes back to Luffy and Shirahoshi, who is telling the pirate how she has always wanted to go to the Sea Forest for ten years but was warned that it was dangerous to leave the tower, which scared her into staying. She then asks Luffy if he really will take her out and protect her, to which he replies yes. She then starts crying. Luffy tells her that if she cries, he will not take her out and she will have to take him out since he cannot swim. She apologizes, saying she is just so happy. Luffy calls her a crybaby and a weakling. Luffy then says that she is too big to go out normally, but that he has a plan for sneaking her out. As Brook and the Minister of the Right get near the tower, they see what was making the noise. The minister was surprised that it wasn't weapons hitting the wall. The sound came from human pirates crashing against the outside wall of the tower. He calls it insane and inhumane, calling out Vander Decken IX.
They then see the pirates beginning to stand up. The minister realizes the severe implications of pirates entering the supposedly impenetrable palace. He then realizes that it is meant to be a surprise attack and that the king is in danger, as well as the princess. In Shirahoshi's room, Luffy thinks it is safe to go as he does not hear anything outside and tells Shirahoshi, again calling her weakling. He tells Megalo he is counting on him. Megalo barrels through the tower's double doors, revealing that the princess is hidden away in Megalo's mouth with Luffy riding on his head in a flutterkick coating while shouting that they are going to the Sea Forest, taking out several of the invading pirates as a result. The chapter ends with Brook and the Minister of the Right being completely shocked to see Megalo and Luffy.

Brook and the Minister of the Right call out to Luffy and Megalo respectively; the Minister of the Right asking Megalo where he is going. Shirahoshi, in her thoughts, apologizes to everyone for disobeying and leaving the castle without permission, promising to be home by dinner time. Luffy is excited for their walk. The Minister of the Right scolds Megalo for leaving the door to Shirahoshi's room open, as it puts the princess' life in danger. The minister orders Brook to go into the room so they could check on the princess. They are both stunned to find the princess gone. The Minister of the Right calls it a national crisis, saying she must have been kidnapped. From behind them, a pirate tries to attack them with a sword. Brook dodges the attack and asks the pirate what he is doing. The pirate asks where the switch to open the connecting corridor to the palace gate is. He tells them the pirates must follow their orders or they will be killed. Brook asks them what they mean.
The scene changes to Coral Hill. Chopper asks Sanji why he beat up all of the guards. Sanji complains about giving up his chance to go to the palace, but then they tried to handcuff him. He observes all of the people glaring at them and says their eyes remind him of the white eyes of the deep sea fish. He then tells Chopper to stop whining. Chopper tells him to think before he acts next time. Sanji retorts that Chopper took out half of them with his kung fu, which Sanji complemented him on. Chopper told him that compliments would not work on him right now, though [not so very] secretly he appreciated it. A woman then screams that a fish-man had just washed up on the beach and is heavily wounded. Someone yells for a doctor and Chopper answers the call.
The injured person turns out to be Hatchan, much to Sanji and Chopper's surprise. Hatchan is covered in arrows. Chopper asks him what happened. With difficulty, Hatchan tells them he is glad to see them, and asks them if Luffy was with them. Chopper tells him Luffy is not here, and that he will fix his wounds. Hatchan takes Sanji by the collar, telling him to gather the crew. He tells them not to become involved with the island anymore and they should leave the Fish-Man District. He tells them that the New Fish-Man Pirates are going to attack the island and the Ryugu Kingdom is going to be destroyed.
The scene then changes to Noah, a few hours before Sanji and Chopper found Hatchan. Vander Decken IX is addressing the human pirates who agreed to serve under Hody Jones. The pirates recognize Decken from the Flying Dutchman but Decken tell them not to worry, as he is the descendant of the infamous captain but he is still cursed. He tells them he is a fish-man who cannot swim. It is because of the power he received along with the Mato Mato curse. He is about to give a demonstration of his power with a human, but a voice stops him. Hatchan enters on crutches with a cast on his lower left leg. He asks them if they really are serious about going through with the plan and to stop their foolishness. He tells them that all the Energy Steroid does is destroy their bodies. He asks them why they would want to destroy Fish-Man Island and tells them not to take Neptune lightly. Jones tells him to give it a rest, saying he does not want to listen to the opinions of a former officer of the Arlong Pirates that he used to look up to. He tells him he got soft and it is time for the next generation to take command. He says they need Fish-Man Island to "educate" the humans and Neptune is in the way of their plan. He then reminds Hatchan that he was the one who taught them that fish-men are the ultimate race. Hatchan argues back by saying that Arlong lost. He then asks Decken and Hyouzou why they are involved with Jones, neither of them answered when Arlong called out to them, so why help someone younger like Jones.
Hyouzou replies that he was hired on by Arlong and that he is only with Jones for the money. Arlong was too frugal and could never afford to pay Hyouzou's fees. He tells him that since they were kids, Hatchan was never able to keep up with him and he felt bad Arlong only had a swordsman like Hatchan to take with him. Decken laughs, saying that Hachi makes him nostalgic. Decken mentions that Arlong once tried to recruit him, saying he has a sense of humor because of that. Decken claims to be a man who will never be under anyone's command and that Jones understood him.
Jones adds that Arlong's ambition and that he actually got things done deserves respect but he was barbaric and unsophisticated at the same time. While the Arlong Pirates were going wild in the sea, Jones and his crew were just kids who were too young to become pirates. His generation matured by learning from the failures of those who came before them. Jones then declares himself to be the one to carry on the will of the Arlong Pirates. He asked if Hatchan as an ex-officer really wanted to dishearten him by screaming at his plans. He then mentions that Luffy, the pirate who crushed Arlong's plans, is on the island at that moment and asks if Hatchan is bothered by that at all. Hatchan tells Jones that Luffy called him his friend and that he owes Luffy his life and that he wants to see him as soon as possible. Hatchan adds that he could not bear to show himself to Luffy as long as Arlong's will still survives on Fish-Man Island. After hearing Hatchan call Luffy his friend, Jones tells Hatchan he has lost all faith in him and he shouldn't talk about being friends with a human.
Decken then walks over to Hatchan and pats him on the back with his bare left hand. He then tells Hatchan that he is locked on to him and asks him if he forgot the ways of a pirate. If a pirate has something to say, he says it with violence. Decken then tosses a knife so that it goes behind Hatchan. The knife comes back around and stabs Hatchan in the back, demonstrating his power. The human pirates are shocked by what they saw. Decken explains that Hatchan became his target the moment he was touched and that any object he throws, no matter where either of them are, will always find its way to Hatchan. A fish-man subordinate hands him several arrows and he tells Hatchan there are numerous ways to prevent the objects from hitting him and tells him to try and find one. Hatchan tells him to stop and not to use that many arrows. He tells Decken that he heard rumors of his ability. He then pleads to Jones that Decken is going to kill him and asks Jones to make him stop. Jones replies that Vander Decken is not one of his subordinates because they are bound by a pirate alliance. He also tells Hatchan that he is getting tired of looking at him. Hatchan begins running as Decken throws the arrows into the air. Jones and Decken enjoy seeing Hatchan running from the arrows. Decken teasingly tells him that he can run, but he cannot hide from the arrows. Hatchan makes it into the water, but realizes that it does not help. The arrows quickly catch up to him and hit him in the back.
The human pirates are horrified by what they have just seen. Decken reassures them that he can only keep two targets memorized at a time, one for each of his palms. He then tells him that his right hand, which he has not washed for ten years, memorized the time he touched Shirahoshi. He then asks them if they understood, explaining that his "love and weapons" will chase their targets down to the bottom of Hell. Pirates, both fish-man and human alike, begin cheering, as one exclaims that that is the reason he was able to stalk the princess revealing himself to the Neptune Army. Someone exclaims what a wily man he is, and people begin to chant. Jones then turns to the human pirates, telling them now that they understand Decken's powers they can begin the first part of their plan. The Ryugu Palace is impossible to invade, but Decken has been able to penetrate its defenses for ten years. Decken will throw them toward Shirahoshi they will hit the wall of her tower, thus infiltrating the palace. Once they arrive, their job will be to open the main gate and let the fish-men through. One pirate protests, saying the impact of hitting the wall would kill them. Jones tells the man he agrees, and that is why he is using humans, whose lives are worth less than that of a slave to him. Only the pirates who survive and are able to complete the mission will be set free and anyone who declines will be thrown out of the bubble right then and there.
Back to the present, the pirates tell Brook and the Minister of the Right that they have to open the corridor or else Jones will kill them. Brook runs back into the room where Neptune is being held captive and relays the news about the pirates and the Princess's disappearance. Neptune is mortified by the latter. Zoro asks what they are supposed to do about the former. Usopp yells at him saying that they are already attacking from the inside and does not want to hear what they should do about it. Zoro says they should cut them and Usopp states that he said he did not want to hear it.
The scene changes again to Luffy, Shirahoshi, and Megalo, who are now outside the palace bubble. Luffy asks her if she can come out of Megalo's mouth yet, and she says she is fine being inside it for now. Luffy asks her how she feels after leaving the palace for the first time in ten years. She says her heart is pounding and what she is doing is really bad. Luffy asks how it could be bad, as they are just going outside, calling her a weirdo. Shirahoshi asks him if they are on an adventure right now. Luffy laughs and says they are, as it must be an adventure if her heart is beating fast. He then asks her about the Sea Forest. She tells him it is a graveyard. There is a grave that was built ten years ago that she always wanted to see but never could. At the Sea Forest, a man is seen sitting on some coral in front of a large grave marker, paying his respects. He talks about how it has already been ten years since the person caused an uproar on Fish-Man Island and since an assassination that took place in broad daylight, mentioning how fast time goes by. He mentions how the princes have become strong warriors and how Shirahoshi is still inside the tower. The chapter ends with the person, who is then revealed to be Jinbe, saying that no one has forgotten the ideals of the person in the grave, Queen Otohime.

The chapter starts with people in Coral Hill looking up at a group of figures in the sky while someone is trying to contact the Ryugu Palace on a Den Den Mushi. Luffy sees the figures as well, though he is too far away to see them clearly. It turns out that the border patrol was the group trying to contact the palace. Someone remarks how odd it is, wondering if the Den Den Mushi at the palace might be sick. The border patrol reports that dangerous individuals have entered the Fish-Man District and they just wanted the people at the palace to know that, going on to say that they do not look like normal tourists but hopefully will not cause trouble. The group in the sky turns out to be Hody Jones, Vander Decken IX, and their crews. The pirates are spread out among several of the sea monsters that the Straw Hats saw when they first arrived.
Hody announces that today marks the mental union for Fish-Man Island. If fish-men and merfolk are not of one mind, they cannot accomplish anything. Also, the humans who cannot breathe underwater should be controlled by the fish-men. Today, the fish-men's history of repeating mistakes will be resolved. Decken adds that today would also mark the anniversary of his and Shirahoshi's wedding engagement. He adds that there is no need to rush, as they can have the ceremony tomorrow. Dosun adds that Jinbe and his crew aren't on the island anymore. Zeo counts how many people in the Neptune Army pose actual threats. He comes up with four: Ryuboshi, Fukaboshi, Manboshi, and Neptune. Ikaros Much adds that if they can take out the four of them, the rest should be easy. Jones calls for everyone to begin suppressing their assigned areas. As the sea monsters all head off in different directions, Jones says that today will be the last day of the Ryugu Kingdom and they will be the new rulers of the seafloor.
The scene changes to a fish bus stop, where several defeated guards are lying on the ground, one of them saying they must tell Neptune she escaped. The woman in question turns out to be Nico Robin. She has learned that there is a Poneglyph in the Sea Forest and is on her way to investigate it. She believes that that Poneglyph contains important information about the Void Century. Back at the palace, Zoro is yelling at the Minister of the Left, telling him not to make it sound like Zoro enjoyed fighting all the pirates. The Minister of the Left says that Zoro looked very energetic during the battle and that he is a born killer. Zoro then sarcastically asks if the minister wanted to have tea be brought to the attacking pirates. The Minister of the Left agreed, saying that it would be a good idea to bring the attacking pirates tea and then talk to them. Zoro tells that his plan would not work on these people. The minister tells him that beating all pirates would not help them understand their purpose for infiltrating the palace. Zoro tells him he does not have to be that hospitable. Usopp and Nami are talking, Usopp comments that things are going in the wrong direction.
Brook wonders if Luffy already met the princess. Neptune falls over behind Usopp, his eyes full of tears. He tells them to undo his chains and to give Shirahoshi back to him. Usopp asks why they would kidnap the princess, Neptune saying that Luffy is the culprit. Brook argues that he saw Luffy and Megalo leave the room and did not see the princess with them. Neptune tells them that the princess knows not to leave the palace on her own. Also, due to how she is as big Neptune himself, there is no way she could sneak out without anyone noticing. Brook does not believe Neptune when he mentions Shirahoshi's size, as he is picturing the princess to be as bulky as Neptune with a similar build.
Neptune suddenly gets an idea, Megalo could have hidden Shirahoshi in his mouth and he could have gotten her out of the palace that way. This causes all of the tied up guards to start laughing. They tell Neptune not to make them laugh at a time like this, and even if someone thought it up, there would be no way anyone would do it as it sounds too bizarre. Nami stands up for Luffy, saying he would never kidnap anyone, and for Neptune to direct his suspicions at someone else. Neptune tells them he cannot think of any other way she could have escaped, and unless she returns safely, he will not return the other crew members or their ship. While they are arguing, one of the invading pirates, while trying to get up, rests his arm on the three levers that control the entrances to the palace and the corridor leading out of the bubble.
In the Sea Forest, someone is explaining how the area they are in is called the ship graveyard, as all the ships that get caught in currents end up there. Franky is then seen, and the man talking is seen a ways behind him. The man says that he has been researching the Sea Forest that stretches along the ocean floor. Franky says he cannot believe that he is seeing a place like the forest in the deep sea. He adds that it is the same as Fish-Man Island. The man then compliments Franky on being able to find wood from Treasure Tree Adam to build the ship. Franky tells him it is the same material that Tom used to make Gol D. Roger's ship. He adds that Thousand Sunny is also his best work. The man says that he will take care of the necessary coating, with a don. Franky thanks him and asks him his name. The man replies his name is Den.
He is a Bering wolfish merman, and Tom's younger brother. Franky asks Den why he does not resemble Tom at all, as his brother Franky figures Den should at least look a little bit like Tom. Den tells Franky he has a very human way of thinking about it, but does not blame him since families of species on land bear lot of resemblance to each other. Den explains that fish-men and merfolk can have genes that can stay dormant for generations. He gives an example, if a shark merman is born from an octopus mermaid, that would mean that at least one of the parents has an ancestor that was a shark. He goes on to say that no one on Fish-Man Island really cares what type of children the mother gives birth to.
He also adds that fish-men and merfolk cannot understand why humans have the need to categorize people. Den then asks Franky if he had a robot for an ancestor. Franky tells him he is a human. Den mentions that he received letters detailing everything about Franky and Iceburg. Franky then remembers that Kokoro used to write letters. He adds that he also knows about Tom's passing, saying that he lived with a don until the very end. Den tells Franky that if he came all the way to Fish-Man Island just to tell him, then Tom picked the right disciple, much to Franky's embarrassment as he presses his nose to make his hair stand up. Franky then remembers that he saw someone sitting a ways away and asks Den about it. Den tells him it is "boss" Jinbe, explaining that he appears to be waiting for someone, but since he is a wanted criminal he cannot enter the island.
Back at the palace, the connecting corridor is opened and the sea monsters are waiting at the main gate. The ministers recognize Vander Decken and Hody Jones, much to their shock and horror. Neptune recognizes Hody and the Minister of the Right confirms that that man is the same Hody who was once a talented soldier in the royal army. Decken is surprised, saying he was expecting to start a battle, but that everyone is already tied up. Hody comments on how he wasn't expecting such a "gift" to be waiting. He then wonders if it is a trap, saying things seems far too convenient. Zoro comments on how busy the castle is, getting one guest after another. The tied up guards plead to be given weapons. The Minister of the Left asks Usopp if they were plotting with the fish-men and if they invited them to the palace. Usopp retorts that the Straw Hat Pirates would not even be at the palace if they had not been invited. He then asks who the new pirates are.
Neptune is furious at Decken, as his presence now confirms to him that the fish-man is the real criminal and demands to have his daughter returned. Decken jokes that he had not even married the princess yet, and already the king wants her back. He tells the king he is getting ahead of himself, and calls him dad, much to Neptune's fury. He asks Decken where Shirahoshi is, saying she had better be alright. Decken is now confused, and tells the king he is acting like the princess is missing. Neptune roars at him not to play dumb, and asks why else she would not be in her room. Decken is shocked that Shirahoshi is gone.
Hody tells Decken to calm down, as the pirates he threw all landed where they were supposed to, which could mean she might still be here. He adds that regardless of whether or not she is here, he has a way of finding her. Decken realizes he is right, and uproots a large piece of tree-shaped coral, telling it to fly to Shirahoshi. After realizing it is not going toward the tower, he jumps on it, saying that after waiting for ten years, the only thing that can separate their love is death. The chapter ends with Decken saying that the princess will die in a sea of blood if she becomes someone else's.

The chapter starts with everyone astounded at how Vander Decken IX left the palace. Neptune tearfully begs the pirates to go after Decken. He tells them that he will give them anything they want, even offering his ministers and the lives of his soldiers in exchange, causing the ministers to question if he actually meant it. He cries that Decken will take Shirahoshi, calling her his treasure, and someone yells at him to pull himself together. Hody then wonders if anyone would have expected the Straw Hat Pirates "of prophecy" would have lent their power in taking over the palace. Nami wonders what he means by "prophecy". She then notices Hody's left arm and that he has a tattoo of Arlong's jolly roger on it. The Minister of the Right then mentions that he had heard from Jinbe about increasing unrest in Fish-Man Town, and that it was all Hody's doing. He reminds Hody that he was once a part of the Neptune Army, asking him if he had any shame. This causes Hody to laugh. He responds, saying that the only shameful thing was someone as prideful as him joining the army to begin with. The only thing he gained from joining the Neptune Army was knowledge and experience of combat techniques and battlefield training. The Minister of the Right is furious. Hody attributes his time in the army to how he became strong.
Hody goes on to say that as a child, he saw the unreasonable discrimination of his fish-man brethren by humans. He later found the same ambition as the Arlong Pirates, crushing all humans. He declares that the New Fish-Man Pirates will restore that will, much to Nami's horror. Hody adds that Arlong had it all planned out. While Arlong was getting ready to advance from East Blue, he was training to become Arlong's right hand, until a certain group of pirates came and ruined everything. Usopp is shocked to find out that the New Fish-Man Pirates are also united under Arlong's will. Brook is surprised to hear the name, but then says he is just kidding, though he never ate an arlong before. This joke prompts Usopp to kick him, while Nami has a look of sheer terror on her face. Hody then walks over to a wall and places his hand on it. His hand starts to make a crack in the wall, causing Usopp to comment on his incredible grip and wonder what he was going to do. The wall breaks, and one of the New Fish-Man Pirates comments how Hody has not taken his steroids yet as water starts rushing in. Zoro and the other Straw Hats realize that the water getting into the castle is bad for them. Hody laughs as he runs his left arm under the water. Several fish-men yell to take cover, saying Hody was going to use "that". Hody then whips his drenched arm, using an attack called Yabusame. The drops of water on his arm are flung so fast that they gain the same speed and power as arrows. Several tied up guards fall victim to this attack. Neptune is furious, saying that Hody is blindly injuring his elite guards. Neptune then falls in front of the attack, telling Hody to stop.
The guards beg the king not to protect them. Hody then calls Neptune a fool, asking what kind of king becomes a shield for subordinates. He tells Neptune that he is not cut out to be king if he acts like that. The Minister of the Left is in tears over seeing Neptune take the attack. Usopp comments on how cruel Hody is, saying Arlong was nothing compared to him. Zoro then counter attacks Hody with a Yakkodori. Instead of dodging, Hody grabs one of his subordinates and uses him as a shield. Usopp is disgusted at Hody's behavior. Zoro orders that the ropes on the hostages be cut. Brook tells Usopp that Nami has run off somewhere and the incoming water is sapping him of his strength. Zoro then states that the negotiations with the country have broken down and he could not keep his promise to return the hostages safely. The Minister of the Left comments on Zoro's amazing integrity. As Brook cuts two guards free, he tells them to take care of the person next to them, as his strength is fading due to the rising water. Hody says that he will not let them get away with it. He then orders his crew to kill both the Neptune Army and the Straw Hats. Usopp launches an attack, Green Star: Rafflesia. The fish-men are surprised to see a giant flower suddenly appear out of the ground. The flower then releases a foul stench. All of the pirates are subdued by the smell except Hody, who comments how childish the attack is. Usopp calls to Zoro that the water is rising. Brook declares it is all over for him. Zoro cuts Neptune's chains, asking him as a favor to get Usopp and Brook out of the palace. When Neptune asks what Zoro will do, Zoro responds that if Hody follows them, then no one will be able to escape. He then takes a deep breath and goes under the water, getting ready to fight Hody. Hody tells him not to interfere in his taking the kingdom.
The scene changes to Coral Hill, where Sanji and Chopper are in trouble with the locals. Two more mermaids were kidnapped at the south beach. Sanji asks why they think he and Chopper are responsible. Sanji said that even though he loves mermaids enough to run off with one, he would never kidnap one of them. Chopper tells Hatchan to hang on, as he was going to recover from his wounds. Just then, Luffy and Megalo appear over head. Sanji wonders what Luffy was doing riding on a blowfish (referring to the engorged Megalo) and Chopper asks him if his nosebleed is better yet. Shirahoshi asks if they are his friends, and Luffy tells her that they are. The locals see Luffy and call him the kidnapping boss. Luffy tells Megalo to close his mouth a bit more, as no one must find Shirahoshi there. He then jumps down to talk to his friends, running over toward Hatchan and asking how he got his wounds. Chopper replies that he will not tell them what happened, and just keeps telling them to get off the island. One of the locals wonders why Luffy was with them, as he was supposed to be taking over the palace. Another calls them a mermaid kidnapping group who must be trying to kidnap Princess Shirahoshi. Someone argues that kidnapping her would be impossible due to her size and Neptune's protection. He also adds that no one could possibly be crazy enough to try kidnapping her. Just then, Megalo reaches his limit and can no longer hold Shirahoshi in his mouth and spits her out. The people of Coral Hill are stunned to see the contents of the shark's mouth, Princess Shirahoshi. Chopper is shocked at the size of the princess, and warns Sanji not to relapse, as a relapse now would kill him. The chapter ends with the locals yelling that the princess was kidnapped.

The chapter starts with everyone exclaiming that the Mermaid Princess has been kidnapped. Luffy asks Shirahoshi why she got out of Megalo's mouth, she apologizes and asks him not to get mad at her as she starts to cry. As someone calls Luffy filthy and heartless, Chopper urges Sanji not to turn around. Sanji realizes that Chopper's warning can only mean that the Mermaid Princess is right behind him. Chopper tells him he is correct, but seeing the princess would without a doubt kill him if a normal mermaid made him lose so much blood before. As Sanji begins to get lost in thought, he remembers hearing that even the most beautiful woman in the world, the pirate empress, would pale in comparison, and realizes that his dream is now in his grasp. He then tells Chopper that for the sake of his dreams, he chooses death- Chopper retorts by exclaiming that he thought that his dream was to find the All Blue. He turns around and looks at her. He realizes that he is gazing upon something that his imagination could never fathom, that no painting could ever capture. He then turns to stone, much to Chopper's shock. Luffy is examining Hatchan, trying to get Hachi to tell him who attacked him. Chopper wonders if Sanji turning to stone could be from a side effect of receiving okama blood. Shirahoshi cries and asks Luffy what she should do, but all of a sudden the Locals take action and tie up Luffy, Chopper, Hatchan, and the still petrified Sanji. Luffy asks them what they are doing, and the locals tell him not to underestimate the warriors of Fish-Man Island. One of the locals identify Hatchan as a former member of Arlong's gang. Shirahoshi tries to explain to everyone that Luffy was only helping her, but the locals will not listen and promise to behead the pirates. Luffy then notices something and tells them that something is flying toward them from behind the crowd, but a local asks Luffy if he really thinks they are dumb enough to fall for that.
Someone then notices that Luffy is not lying, and everyone is shocked to see it is none other than Vander Decken IX. Decken yells that he found her, this time saying "Of course I did" instead of "I think". The locals are shocked that after hiding out for ten years, he now suddenly appeared on the island, and someone yells for Shirahoshi to run for it. Decken tells Shirahoshi to give him an answer, saying she will escape death if she says yes, telling her to run away with him and marry him. The locals are shocked to hear him ask for marriage after constantly attempting to take her life. Shirahoshi tells him she is sorry, but he is not her type. The locals are comically stunned to find out that is why she will not marry him, and not his violent tendencies. Decken is crushed, and actually looks emotionally hurt. He tells her she should be ashamed of herself, because he has had feelings for her for the past ten years and then she steps all over them. He then asks her who she is planning to be with. He goes on to say that now that he knows her feelings toward him, her existence is now an eyesore. He gets ready to attack her as a local tells her to run, but Luffy tells her to wait, having now dubbed her 'scaredy cat'. A local grabs him by the collar, and asks him if he is working for Decken, and if he wants the princess to die. Luffy shouts that if she gets too far away from him, then he cannot protect her, so Shirahoshi tells Luffy she will remain with him. Decken then attacks Shirahoshi with another axe with a rose painted on it. Luffy tries to help, but is blocked by locals who still think he is trying to harm the princess. Luffy apologizes, saying he has nothing against them, then knocks them out with a burst of Haoshoku Haki because they are in his way. He then kicks off from the ground, flying toward Decken who is still on the coral. He does a flip in the air and brings his legs down on the coral, sending it crashing to the ground and knocking Decken off. The locals are amazed at Luffy's abilities, even when he is tied up.
Decken asks Luffy why he is interfering with his and Shirahoshi's love, and figures that Luffy was the one who brought Shirahoshi out of the palace. And Luffy realizes that Decken was the one who had been throwing things at Shirahoshi as he gets ready to do an attack. Decken tells him he will take both of their lives, saying they would not be a pair, as they would be cut into a set of four. Luffy then uses a new technique, Gomu Gomu no Jet Hammer, plowing Vander Decken IX into the ground head first. The locals are shocked to see that Luffy beat Vander Decken. They then realize that Decken was still moving, despite being planted head first into the ground, and decide to capture him. Luffy headbutts Megalo, telling him to wake up and asks Sanji if he is alright. Chopper tells Luffy that Sanji had turned to stone earlier, but now he seems happy, and most importantly, conscious. Luffy tells Shirahoshi they need to go. Shirahoshi asks Luffy not to yell at her, as all the excitement has gotten her quite worked up. Luffy tells her that for some reason the island hates them, and they need to get out of here.
Shirahoshi unties Luffy, making the locals wonder why she is helping him. She apologizes to them, and tells them she will be home in time for dinner, which confuses them. The Straw Hats get on Megalo's back, and Shirahoshi grabs on to his jaws (much to his discomfort), as they get away. Just as they get away, Vander Decken IX gets his head out of the ground and swats away the people trying to capture him. Yelling that they will not get away, he calls on Wadatsumi and tells him to pound them into the ground. Wadatsumi gets ready to punch them, but Luffy beats him to it, and hits him in the face with a Gomu Gomu no Jet Pistol, breaking one of his teeth. Decken seems upset that they got away.
The scene changes to the Ryugu Palace, where someone informs Jones that Nami and Camie had escaped. Jones tells him to ignore it. Nami and Camie are then seen escaping, with the former holding onto the latter's back with an air bubble around her head. Camie asks if it was ok for them to leave the others behind but Nami tells her to relax, as nothing good could come by worrying. Camie tells her she knows that they are all strong, but that Hatchan told her that Jones's mind is more dangerous than his strength. Nami then asks her what kind of person Jinbe is. Camie replies that he is a pirate who is popular at the Ryugu Palace and can come and go as he pleases. Nami remembers that he was also in the same crew as Arlong, and that Jones is the successor to Arlong's will. She then mentions one of Jinbe's messages to Luffy, "Don't fight Hody". Nami adds that she thinks she has figured out what the message means. Camie tells her she thought it only meant that Jones is dangerous. Nami adds that it is ok for Zoro and the others to get Jones angry. She then tells Camie she wants to meet Jinbe, and remembers he is waiting at the Sea Forest. Nami says that the situation seems to have a long and deep rooted history, and has a feeling that Jinbe knows all about it. She then asks Camie to head to the sea forest.
Back in the palace, Neptune is giving orders to his guards. The soldiers tell him they will take care of Jones and the pirates. Neptune tells them not to. He tells them that even though he did not get a chance to fight, they all ended up as victims. He orders them to surrender the castle for now, reunite with Fukaboshi, and get ready for the rematch. The guards are shocked at the orders. Usopp and Brook are in the water. Usopp wonders what Zoro can do to fight a fish-man in the water as Brook tells Usopp he is not going to make it. The chapter ends with Zoro seemingly defeating Jones with a single slash, and the New Fish-Man Pirates astounded at what happened to their captain, with Usopp looking on in shock.

The chapter starts with Zoro having just cut Hody Jones. The New Fish-Man Pirates are shocked. They cannot believe that a human could actually beat a fish-man in water, asking just who exactly Zoro was. One of the pirates shouts not to let Zoro escape, and to recharge their strength with Energy Steroids. Neptune then wonders why he is feeling such an odd turmoil about him. Zoro resurfaces gasping for air. Neptune tells the Straw Hats that they must get out of the palace, as soon it will be completely flooded. He then orders Zoro to grab onto him. Zoro does so and they go under. Neptune then puts his arms behind his right side, and seemingly grabs the water, saying that what he is about to do will badly hurt his back. He tells the Straw Hats that he is making an escape route for them so they do not have to fight. The pirates in front of Neptune watch curiously, wondering what Neptune is going to do. Neptune uses his attack, Merman Combat: Ultramarine and launches what is basically a pressurized beam of water at the fish-men in front of him. The blast sends the fish-men flying in all directions. Neptune, while holding his hurt back, tells the soldiers to go. The Minister of the Right is seen among the other soldiers, quickly swimming through the gap Neptune made for them. A fish-man frantically swims over to the unconscious Hody Jones and tells him to do something. He then proceeds to put an Energy Steroid pill in his captain's mouth. Meanwhile, the soldiers have made it out of the palace. Someone gives the order to keep moving and to head inland into Fish-Man Island.
Neptune is flat on his back, Usopp and Brook (who are wearing air bubbles) are trying to convince him to get up. Neptune tells them he is too old to be doing this kind of thing and that his body will not move. Several guards notice the king in need of help, and apparently, so does Jones. Hoe arrives just in time. Neptune grabs a rope around the whale, and Hoe begins to carry him out of the palace. Neptune thanks Hoe, telling him he owes him. Zoro, in the mean time, is about to be out of breath. Neptune then feels something stop him and is jerked back. Jones had grabbed him by the fin. The guards are surprised to see Jones up and moving around, as they thought he was incapacitated. They try and help, but Neptune turns them away, telling the guards to go and find Fukaboshi and his men. The soldiers are reluctant at first, but the Minister of the Right tells them to obey the king. Zoro is out of air, Usopp is raising his hands in surrender, and Brook seems to have gone limp, and they are captured by the New Fish-Man Pirates.
The scene changes to the Sea Forest, where Luffy is remarking how pretty it is. Shirahoshi is in tears as she thanks Luffy for bringing her there. Chopper decides it is safe for him to take his time to treat Hatchan's wounds. Luffy then sees the Thousand Sunny and Franky and calls out to him. Franky notices Luffy and asks him what he has been doing as he seems to have brought a pin-up girl (Shirahoshi) with him. Luffy introduces Franky to Scaredy-Cat, who then properly introduces herself as Shirahoshi. Franky then tells Luffy that Robin came by too. She said she was looking for something and went into the coral forest behind him. Luffy seems curious, but then Jinbe calls out to him, happy to see him after two years, and commenting that he hardly recognized him. Luffy is surprised and happy to see Jinbe, as he thought he would not get to see his friend since he heard Jinbe wasn't around. This confuses Jinbe, as he thought Luffy came to the forest because of his message. Shirahoshi is also glad to see Jinbe, who comments that Luffy came with the princess, whom he had not heard from in what felt like forever. It then dawns on Jinbe that Shirahoshi is in the Sea Forest, and not in her tower. He is so shocked that his eyes bug out of his head. While he is asking why she is in the Sea Forest, Chopper tells Franky he is going to lower Hatchan down from Megalo, and he should be ready to grab him. Jinbe's eyes bug out again at the sight of the injured Hatchan, and asks him how he got his wounds. He then asks him what he is doing on Fish-Man Island since he heard that Hatchan had been captured along with the rest of the Arlong Pirates. Hatchan, still weak from his injuries, asks if Jinbe is the one he is hearing.
Meanwhile, Sanji is completely enthralled by Shirahoshi. He then launches into a poetic metaphor where he is a painter, unable to capture Shirahoshi's beauty, as he dances around her. Chopper is overjoyed by Sanji's reaction to Shirahoshi, as he is behaving the way he normally does around a woman, saying he is back to his weird self again. Den then asks Shirahoshi why she is in the Sea Forest. Before she can answer, Luffy asks Den who he is and what he is doing on the Sunny. Franky then introduces Luffy to Den, saying he agreed to coat the ship as well as his relation to his old master, Tom. Luffy was surprised, and asked Franky if his brother really was a coating master (having only heard bits and pieces of Den's introduction). Franky tells him he is close enough. Jinbe is then talking to Shirahoshi, saying he understands her reasons for coming, but she must not leave her tower. Both Luffy and Jinbe then notice something in the air. Luffy jumps up and kicks a giant axe that was meant to kill Shirahoshi, redirecting it into the ground. Luffy then comments on how persistent Vander Decken IX is. Jinbe then asks Luffy why he brought the princess with him. Instead of answering him, Luffy turns to Shirahoshi and tells her that everything is okay, and he's here. Shirahoshi casually replies okay. Jinbe is amazed by how care-free Luffy is.
While everyone is hanging out around the Sunny, Luffy points to Otohime's grave and asks if that was the grave Shirahoshi was talking about, saying she has been in front of it for a long time. Jinbe explains to Luffy that Shirahoshi's mother is resting in that grave. He goes on to say that Shirahoshi had a poorly timed encounter with Vander Decken IX's poison fang ten years ago. She could not even go to her mother's funeral, as she had to stay in the tower. Shirahoshi is praying in front of the grave. Jinbe said there would be so many things she wanted to say to her mother. Just then, Nami calls out to Luffy. She and Camie have arrived. Camie is surprised to see him with Shirahoshi. Luffy asks Nami if the banquet had started yet, while Sanji is overjoyed to see her, and Chopper pronounces Sanji fully cured. Nami tells them that Hody Jones is now on the loose. Jinbe is astounded that the Ryugu Palace could fall into such a crisis. Luffy asks what happened to the rest of the crew. Nami tells him she does not know, as she was planning to go back after she found Luffy and Jinbe. Shirahoshi starts crying over her father's capture, while Camie asks Hatchan what happened to him. Jinbe apologizes, saying the Straw Hats had gotten entangled in the situation before he even realized it. He asks if he could explain quickly, saying it is hard to tell Luffy this now, and would have been even harder to tell him two years ago. He tells them that the Arlong Pirates were rampaging all over East Blue until a group of people put a stop to them. He adds that he has the utmost gratitude for those people, and thanks the Straw Hats. Hatchan adds that he would also like to take this opportunity to apologize. Jinbe then reveals that he was the one who set Arlong loose in East Blue, much to Nami's stunned surprise.

The chapter starts with the royal guards falling out of the connecting corridor. They use bubbly coral to create bubbles to float on. The Minister of the Left is upset, saying it was a disaster for them to leave Neptune alone in the castle. The Minister of the Right tells him not to think about it too much, as it was Neptune's order. He says they need to get in contact with Fukaboshi and get him in contact with Neptune. He then orders the soldiers to regroup at Gyoverly Hills, the closest town to them.
The scene then changes to Gyoverly Hills, where Ikaros Much is ordering people around. The citizens ask him why he and his men are causing chaos. Much tells them to shut up, saying the island will soon be under Jones' control. He then orders them to step on a fumi-e. The other New Fish-Man Pirate officers are doing the same thing all around the island. Daruma is in Candy Factory Town on the northwest part of the island. He tells the citizens that anyone who does not step on the fumi-e will be considered a human sympathizer and an enemy of the New Fish-Man Pirates. Hyouzou is on the southwest part of Fish-Man Island, outside the Fishermen's Guild meeting hall. He gives the people there an ultimatum. They can either step on the fumi-e, or leave the island. He says that those who do not want to do either one are saying it is okay for Hyouzou to slice them up. Zeo is at the Marine Shopping Mall on the west side of the island. He has given the people there the same ultimatum that Hyouzou gave. The people there are arguing against leaving the island, saying that light does not reach the sea floor anywhere else and they could not live in the human world. Zeo then grabs someone from the crowd gathered around him, telling him that humans and fish-man can never coexist peacefully. They should submit and kneel before king Hody, saying fish-men can rule the humans and change history.
Dosun is at Water Wheel Village on the northern part of the island. Prince Fukaboshi hits Dosun in the jaw with his trident, knocking the pirate backward. All the people in the village are overjoyed to see Fukaboshi. Dosun lands in a crouched position several feet away. Fukaboshi looks at a photograph Dosun dropped. He then angrily asks Dosun what he is trying to accomplish by making the citizens step on the fumi-e of Queen Otohime.
The scene changes to Coral Hill. The locals are talking, saying Vander Decken IX got away and Shirahoshi was kidnapped by the Straw Hats right in front of their very eyes. When someone mentions Shirahoshi said that she would be home in time for dinner, someone else says that the pirates forced her to say it. Someone else worries that she will be sold off to the Celestial Dragons as a slave. Another person cuts in, saying that towns all over the island are reportedly being attacked by the pirates from the Fish-Man District. Someone wonders what is happening at the palace and on the island. Caribou is listening to the conversation from a good distance away. He is interested in Shirahoshi, as a mermaid her size would fetch an unbelievable price on the slave market, saying he is getting excited just thinking about it.
The scene switches to the Sea Forest, where Shirahoshi is crying after learning what happened at the palace and to her father. Jinbe reassures her that the New Fish-Man Pirates have not done anything to the king yet, which calms her down. He then asks her for a moment to speak with Luffy, promising to save the king no matter what. Sanji then comes dancing in, carrying three cups of tea for the ladies. The tea is in two normal size cups for Nami and Camie, and one large cup for Shirahoshi. Nami tells Sanji to put her tea down, as they are having a serious conversation right now, and to stop with the sweet talk. Sanji comments on how he loves Nami's more serious side. Nami then asks Jinbe about setting Arlong loose in East Blue.
Before Jinbe starts his explanation, Sanji tells Jinbe he wants to know about it too. He remembers the last time he and Luffy heard about the Shichibukai Jinbe was when Yosaku told them about it. While Sanji is talking, Luffy takes the opportunity to steal Nami's tea. There is then a momentary flashback to when Yosaku told them about how Jinbe sent a terrible man into East Blue in exchange for his Shichibukai spot. Sanji asks Luffy if he forgot. Luffy responds, saying that Yosaku is probably doing pretty well. Sanji adds that when Luffy appeared in the newspaper along with Jinbe two years ago, it puzzled him deeply, thinking Jinbe was a corrupt person like Arlong. He then tells Jinbe that they are willing to listen if he wants to explain himself, but advises the fish-man to choose his words carefully. If he has something to hide, then he should be reminded that Nami's home town was controlled by Arlong, making her suffer unspeakably and unbearably during his rule. Jinbe's face after hearing this shows shock and regret. Sanji ends by saying that what Jinbe says next will decide if he forgives him or not. Hatchan chimes in, saying it is true. Even if both of them were to apologize to Nami, there are some things she bears that can never be forgiven, some wounds that will never heal. Nami remembers back to the time when Bell-mere first learned about Nami's dream to create a map of the world, when the Arlong Pirates first came to her village, and when Arlong shot and killed Bellemere. She also remembers what it was like to live under Arlong, how she had to work endlessly for him making maps, sometimes without food. She also remembers the time when she began stealing money, and how one job resulted in her getting shot in the arm. Lastly, she remembers when she came back to Arlong Park after some time away, when Arlong said she had no choice but to come back.
Jinbe comments that she has endured much cruelty. Sanji snaps at him, asking what he would know about it. Nami says she will never have a shred of compassion for Arlong no matter what happens, but she had no idea how a race as strong as the fish-men had been persecuted until she arrived at Saboady Archipelago two years ago. She remembers going after the slave traders who took Camie and seeing Sabaody Park. She remembers how she thought Sabaody Park looked exactly like Arlong's base of operations, Arlong Park. The chapter has a flashback to both places, showing similarities in both architecture and logos. Hatchan mentions that he longed for Sabaody Park. He first adds that he has no expectation of Nami ever forgiving him and then tells her that ever since they were kids, all he and the Fish-Man Pirates wanted was to be part of the human world. There is a flashback of Hatchan, Arlong, Chew, and Kuroobi looking at Sabaody Park from a distance. He goes on to give the history of the fish-man race. Two hundred years ago, Ryugu Kingdom separated itself from the rest of the sea by becoming an official member of the World Government. The king was also allowed for participation with Levely. Even still, hatred toward the fish-men still persisted. Luffy takes a sip of tea while Franky, Den, and Shirahoshi look on with somber faces as Hatchan tells them about the worst period in their lives, the beginning of the great pirate era. He remembers clearly the horror of human pirates running amok on the island. Jinbe cuts in, saying the one who saved them from that horror was the now deceased Edward Newgate.
Jinbe goes to say that mankind's hatred still did not stop. He says they all saw what the reality is when they were at Sabaody Archipelago. He then muses about how people always become cold and fearsome when they gain power. Even in the government, the very government that forged a treaty with the fish-men, that hatred remained. Jinbe tells them that two people on Fish-Man Island with the intent to change history stepped forward and took a stand. The first was Queen Otohime, who encouraged the fish-men to get along with humans. The other person was Fisher Tiger, who Jinbe called the slave freeing hero. He wanted segregation from humans, and launched the feat he is most famous for the world over. He invaded Mary Geoise by himself and set the slaves there free. Luffy tries to remember where he had heard Fisher Tiger's name before. After his campaign on the holy land, Tiger gathered the fish-men he freed and formed the Sun Pirates. Jinbe tells everyone that he was part of that crew along with Hatchan and Arlong. With anti-government fish-men pirates running loose, Otohime's philosophy of living in harmony became too much for the queen to handle. Otohime wanted to get through the present and change the future, while Fisher Tiger was willing to throw away the future to save his fellow fish-men. Jinbe adds that no one knows who was right, as it cannot be decided.
A flashback begins, with someone saying an enemy ship has been spotted. The flashback takes place fifteen years ago. Hatchan burst into the captain's quarters on the Sun Pirates' ship, saying they have a huge problem. Inside the captain's quarters are several fish-men, including Arlong, Jinbe, Gyaro, Kuroobi, Chew, Macro, and Tansui. Arlong tells Hatchan to shut up, while the captain, sitting in a chair in the middle, comments on how noisy he is. Hatchan again states that they have a problem. The chapter ends with the Sun Pirate captain Fisher Tiger being formally introduced, and asking Hatchan if the problem was the Marines.

The chapter starts with a flashback that is introduced by Jinbe narrating. It takes place sixteen years ago. Someone shouts out to a thief. The thief in question runs away, holding a gun, and grabs a mermaid out of the crowd to serve as a hostage. A ways away, Queen Otohime sees the commotion. The guards escorting her urge her to think about what she is doing, and it is not her job to get involved in people's problems, but rather theirs. The robber sees the queen approaching, but does not recognize her. He shoots at her, but the queen dodges the shots swiftly and easily, surprising the robber. The queen then slaps the thief at very high speed. Unfortunately, Otohime hurt her hand when she slapped him, and cried out in pain. The queen is then formally introduced as a goldfish mermaid as a doctor is called for. The doctor examines her hand and sees that it is a complex fracture. Queen Otohime tells the doctor to keep his opinions to himself as she runs toward the thief, who is surprised to realize that it was actually the queen who slapped him. She angrily asks him why he would resort to something as low as stealing. The thief angrily tells her to back off, saying that royalty like her would have no idea why. The man explains that he has ten children at home who are going hungry. Otohime slaps him again, saying that is all the more reason for him to be punished. The Minister of the Right begs Otohime to stop hitting him, as her body is weaker than the average person's. Otohime replies that she does not care, as she would break her hand in order to teach the man a lesson. She angrily yells at the man, asking him if his children would be truly happy being raised on stolen money and goods and he must show his children that they have to live by their own actions. She then becomes less aggressive, saying she would like to apologize. She begins crying, saying there is no way for her to empathize with the man. The pain of the man's heart's "voice is piercing her chest", as he had gone through so much out of desperation.
At this point, the man starts crying, saying he never wanted it to be like this. The man then explains that there was nothing he could do. Someone burned his shop to the ground and made off with all of his money. He is out of work as a result, up to his neck in debt, and unable to provide for his starving children. Otohime slaps him again, saying that is no excuse to resort to a life of crime. Stealing from others after he himself was robbed would only propel the cycle of suffering onto someone else. She then says she is sorry in spite of that, as she is part of the royal family that the people trust, so they must take responsibility as well. The man then exclaims that he is not worthy of her kind words. He then brightens up, promising to change and be a better man, even though he is not worthy of her pity. She tells the man she believes in him. This is met with tears and applause from all the people who witnessed the encounter. A fish-man comments that they are lucky to have a royal family who would leave the palace just to take a walk around the town while two others comment how a single citizen would make her shed a tear, and how her practices are rather unconventional. Another man comments on how loved she is among the people, pointing out how popular she is with kids. Several kids are then seen running happily toward Otohime. The one in the lead has a rather large snot dangling from his nose. As soon as he gets close enough to Otohime, she slaps him for it, completely blindsiding him, saying she is doing it for his own good. She then tells him that he looks silly with snot hanging from only one nostril, and that he should have snot hang from both nostrils in the future in order to not look foolish. She holds the child who begins crying in her arms. An onlooker remarks how touching it is, and the guy next to him asks if he was serious.
Jinbe then narrates, saying that Otohime would often come down from the palace to address the people. Otohime then declares that Ryugu Kingdom is going to the surface. She says that humans look different, but they must not wait for them to understand fish-men and merfolk. The Ryugu Kingdom must make the first move toward equality. As she goes on, Jinbe is seen off to one side with two other guards. Otohime goes on to say that even though pirates are the only kind of humans that come to the island, they make up only a fraction of all humans. Humankind is still largely unknown to the people under the sea, even though the same sun shines on humans as it shines on them. She holds up a document, saying that Levely has opened to them, and their intent to migrate can be told to the world. She then asks everyone to sign the petition for Ryugu Kingdom to enter Levely. People politely refuse, even though she seems to ask constantly. Jinbe mutters that her campaigning is going nowhere, as history has spoken for the people already.
The scene changes to Ryugu Palace, where crying can be heard. Otohime locks pinky fingers with her four children. Otohime rests her head on the large and crying Shirahoshi, saying she overworked herself and came back late as a result, apologizing for it. She then comments that even though Shirahoshi has snot dripping from her nose, she still looks so adorable. A young Fukaboshi excitedly tells his mother that he and his brothers were with Shirahoshi, so she was okay. Ryuboshi and Manboshi respond in unison that she was just fine. Otohime thanks her sons. Manboshi then asks if her hand is alright. Otohime then declares that she will try to change the future to make the world a better place for her children to live in. Elsewhere, Neptune and the Minister of the Left are talking about the queen. The Minister asks why Otohime simply could not record a speech. Neptune responds that the Kenbunshoku Haki she has had since birth will not let her do that, since she believes "Distance makes the heart grow cold" and even he cannot change her mind about it. The Minister of the Left then reminds him there are a lot of human pirates on the island. He then reminds Neptune of the worst case scenario for Ryugu Kingdom's future, Whitebeard ending his protection. Neptune assures him that Otohime is well aware of what would happen. Neptune then adds that the world his wife dreams of goes back hundreds of years. Their distant ancestors tried to achieve the same thing but that it was nothing but a wasted dream that ended in regret, and that is all there is to it. The Minister of the Left is confused by his comment. Before he can enquire further, Neptune says that he cannot stop his wife from what she is doing, and asks the Minister of the Left to do his best to protect her. As he says this, Noah is seen behind him.
Sometime afterward, Otohime is out in public again, only someone is holding her petition. She begs him to give it back, saying that a lot of people had signed it. The man says he does not care about the number of signatures. A guard yells at the man to give it back, identifying him as none other than Arlong. Arlong grabs the guard by the neck, saying he wasn't exactly right. Arlong then introduces himself as Captain Arlong of the Arlong Pirates. He starts talking about how the people are living alongside human pirates but at the same time the Neptune Army is hunting pirates. He adds if the guard has anything to say he would have to pay Arlong first. Jinbe is seen a little ways away, remaining thoughtfully silent. The guard calls for Jinbe to help him. Arlong seems surprised to hear Jinbe's name. Jinbe then bluntly tells Arlong to let go of his new recruit, and that he does not care what is on the petition, but it is important to Otohime, and orders him to give it back. The citizens are relieved to see Jinbe. Arlong laughs at Jinbe's title of "Boss", asking where else he could find a mafia-like soldier. Jinbe orders Arlong to give the queen back the petition. He then throws the soldier to the floor. Arlong tells Jinbe not to get so worked up, since they are old friends from the orphan village, the Fish-Man District. Jinbe tells Arlong not to lump him in with that group, asking if he is still playing pirate, calling him scum. Arlong jokingly replies that Jinbe knows he is not scum, to which Jinbe asks if he is garbage. Someone then announces that Fisher Tiger has returned. Arlong and Jinbe forget their argument out of excitement to see their friend. Tiger comes up to them as people behind him cheer. He remarks that both Jinbe and Arlong are looking well. Jinbe comments that Tiger was gone for a long time. Tiger replies that a lot happened and that he has business at Ryugu Palace. Arlong invites him to check out his ship.
The narration starts again, explaining that the Fish-Man District back then was a giant orphanage. But corruption soon arrived. The area became a lawless place, drawing Fish-Man Island's outcasts toward it. At that time, Fisher Tiger, the oldest of the group, left to become an adventurer, Jinbe joined the army, Arlong became a pirate on the ocean floor, and Macro, who was considered the cruelest of the group, became a slave trader and kidnapped fish-men. Everyone went their own way. Then everyone heard that Fisher Tiger attacked Mary Geoise and freed the slaves there. Fisher Tiger gathered his old friends from the Fish-Man District and formed the Sun Pirates, branding the mark of the sun over the symbol of slavery. The Sun Pirates were very persistent. They sank countless Marine ships. Arlong is then seen yelling to Jinbe to leave a Marine alone, since he is already unconscious. Jinbe mutters to the Marine that they overlook slavery, but consider freeing slaves a crime. He then thinks about Otohime and comments how this is the "love" of humans. The chapter ends with the Sun Pirates standing over the defeated Marines.

The chapter starts on Fish-Man Island, where people have just received news about Fisher Tiger's attack on Mary Geoise. Everyone is overjoyed by the news. At Ryugu Palace, Neptune says that Tiger "actually went and did it" remembering the last meeting he had with him before his assault at Mary Geoise. In the flashback Neptune is seen asking Tiger if he really means to free the slaves. Tiger responds that he cannot stand that the slaves' life is a living hell, suffering torments no person should have to face. He states that he has already made his decision leading to Neptune asking him what he saw exactly during his travels. The fish-man angrily replies that he saw humans. Otohime is seen crying quietly while the two men exchange words, ending the flashback. Neptune is then seen saying that Fish-Man Island is garnering negative attention in the world, and they will not be able to attend Levely as they are. Otohime that there was no way they could have stopped Tiger. The voice she heard in Tiger's heart, had become a terrible scream. Otohime then kisses Shirahoshi on the cheek and touches pinky fingers with her. She is then seen in Candy Factory Town, preaching about how fish-men and merfolk can get along with humans. When a man argues saying that no one will listen since everyone is celebrating Fisher Tiger's exploit and that the humans deserved it, Otohime asks him how pointless would be in the future, saying the petition is their only chance in ever joining Levely.
The scene changes to the Fish-Man District, where a fifteen year old Hody Jones is reading about Tiger's exploits in a newspaper. He is talking excitedly with Daruma and Zeo about how Tiger stuck it to the humans. Zeo agrees, and Daruma recites what Arlong always says, that humans are garbage. A young Dosun mentions how the Sun Pirates are sailing the seas and beating humans everywhere. A young Ikaros Much says that they would have gone with them if they were old enough. Jones yells for the Sun Pirates to show the humans what they (the fish-men race), can do, and to slaughter them all.
The scene changes to the Grand Line, where the Sun Pirates are attacking a G-2 Marine ship. The Marines are no match for the pirates. The commanding officer of the ship, Rear Admiral Kadar, orders the Sun Pirates to give up all of the ex-slaves they took, as a soldier informs him the fish-men are attacking them from underwater. Tiger then kicks Kadar in the head, saying that he has no way of telling which of the pirates were slaves. He tells a barely conscious Kadar to search their bodies, but he will find no marks of slavery, as other fish-men are getting ready to loot the ship. Kadar then notices all of the fish-men swimming below the ship, as Tiger tells him he will get out alive. Nearby, Arlong kicks another soldier to the ground, saying he sentences him to death, as being human warrants an execution, but Tiger tells him to stop.
The scene changes to Marineford, where Strawberry is informing Vice Admiral Borsalino that Kadar's ship has been sunk. Borsalino then asks why they would go and start trouble, as their orders were to locate the Sun Pirates and report back. Strawberry explains that when the ship got close, the fish-men surrounded and attacked them from underwater. Borsalino then comments on how the fish-men are pros under the water. He then asks Strawberry if any of the fish-men could be identified, and Strawberry tells him that there were reported Arlong Pirates on board, as well as many more of their kind. He comments how it is difficult to measure their battle strength, and there was also Fisher Tiger. In short, they are extremely powerful but the Marines do not have their names. Borsalino comments on how troubling it is.
Back on the Sun Pirates' ship, Arlong appears to have been hit in the head by Tiger, and asks him what he care about humans. Tiger sternly reminds Arlong that he was ordered not to kill humans, and that he should not get carried away. Jinbe argues back (first calling him brother tai, then correcting himself) that every human they fight is after Tiger's head. If humans attack them with the intent to kill, then the fish-men should do the same. Tiger replies that killing humans is the same as losing, asking if Jinbe really wants to stoop to their level. Tiger tells them that their campaign is not revenge for the humans' history of discrimination, and neither was his raid on Mary Geoise. He is doing all this to break the hardened rules of society and free the oppressed. The Sun Pirates are about liberation and freedom, no more, no less. Them taking revenge on the humans would only result in the humans taking revenge on them. He then asks them if they understand that even though humans will still come to fight them, the fish-men will not kill anyone. Arlong asks why they do not just slaughter all the humans to the point where they could not take revenge on the fish-men even if they tried. They will teach humans the true strength and horror of the fish-men race. Jinbe then punches Arlong in the back of the head.
Later that night, Jinbe finds Fisher Tiger out drinking on the deck of the ship. Tiger comments how Otohime's ambitions of living peacefully with humans is quite idealistic. He then wonders what differences she would see between him and Arlong. He then comments that the demons in his heart, are the most terrifying of all.
Some time later, Hatchan alerts the crew of an enemy ship approaching. Everyone is amazed that pirates would try to capture them to make a name for themselves. They then proceed to attack the ship. Queen Otohime is then seen aggressively telling people to sign her petition. Jinbe and Fisher Tiger are then seen on wanted posters, having been issued bounties. The Sun Pirates are angry, but Jones and his friends are excited to see them on wanted posters. Otohime is still continuing her aggressive approach to get people to sign her petition.
The scene changes to three years later, the Sun Pirates are on an island. The people of the island are asking the pirates to take a little girl with them. She was one of the slaves that Tiger freed three years prior, named Koala, age eleven. Koala wanted to go back to her home to visit her mother, but the people of the island could not take her there. On the ship, Arlong expresses his disgust at Koala for being a human. He is also bothered by the fact that she is always smiling, and hits her. Hatchan restrains him, saying she is only a child, though Chew mutters that he agrees with Arlong about the smiling. Arlong then watches as Koala rips off part of her pant leg, and begins to clean the deck with it. She apologizes profusely, saying she will work without rest, so they do not have to fight, apologizing again. Jinbe sits next to her, asking what she is doing, and she apologizes again, and does not stop working even when Jinbe notes that she is bleeding. She then says that she will not cry no matter what happens, and asks him not to kill her. Jinbe asks if she is afraid of them. Koala replies that she is, but she wants to see her mother again, so she gathered the courage to board the ship. She then asks if they will kill her if she takes a break, and promises to be useful and asks them not to kill her. A fish-man explains to Jinbe that the lifestyle of a slave is wired into her body. They would be killed if they stopped cleaning or cried. This led to slaves panicking all the time when they were alone, and not trusting anyone.
Fisher Tiger sees Koala cleaning, and orders that she be brought to his room. The pirates ask what he is going to do with her. Koala is then seen looking shocked. She then falls over, with the back of her left shoulder sizzling. Tiger is standing over her, holding a hot iron. Tiger replies that he scarred her, saying that some things can never be forgotten if someone is marked. Koala regains consciousness and apologizes for passing out, but asks Tiger not to kill her as she did not cry. Tiger yells at her, saying that she can cry, telling her not to confuse them with the Celestial Dragons. Tiger then takes out a pistol and tells Koala to watch carefully. He then throws the gun into the ocean, stating they will not kill anyone. He then tells his crew that no matter what, they will get Koala home, to which the crew cheers. The chapter ends with Koala finally crying.

The chapter starts with the Sun Pirates rejoicing that they found an Eternal Pose to Koala's home island, and she is seen after being cleaned up and put in new clothes which Hatchan comments on, saying how much better she looks. She is conscientious, saying that she could never accept something like the eternal pose. Hatchan asks what she is talking about, since they went through the trouble of buying it and getting her a haircut, saying he thinks her mom would like the new look better. Koala then begins to clean the deck. Hatchan tells her not to clean just because she does not know what to do, and that she is not in Mary Geoise anymore. Aladine, the crew's doctor, tells Hatchan to let her do as she pleases, saying it is best to take trauma recovery slowly. Hatchan seemed surprised by this. Arlong comments that Aladine knows what he is talking about, having been a former slave, and would understand Koala's feelings better than anyone else. Arlong then goes on to say that what Aladine really wants is to kill her, since she is a human, just like his enslavers, to which Fisher Tiger tells him to stop. Arlong tells her to show them what she is truly like on the inside, to show them how her parents taught her to look down on fish-men. Arlong then goes on to say that all humans think they are the greatest, and their children inherit this mindset, and unless someone dismantles those beliefs, the cycle will never stop. Arlong adds that surely everyone knows what he is talking about, as he has seen the way humans look at them, saying he does not know what he would have done to them if Tiger wasn't there. Jinbe argues that is only one portion of humankind and they do not all think that way. From what he can tell, humans are more scared of fish-men than anything.
Jinbe sits down next to Koala and asks her what makes humans afraid of fish-men. Koala simply replies that it is because humans do not know anything about fish-men, which immediately makes Jinbe recall Queen Otohime saying the same thing about humans. He then tells Koala there could be some change if she got to know them better, to which she agrees. The scene changes to a montage of Koala bonding with the Sun Pirates, like playing with Hatchan where he hides something in one of his six hands and she has to guess what hand it is in. The pirates are next seen in a town, carrying supplies to their ship, with people looking at them with scared looks. Hatchan is then seen bringing up a giant squid to the surface, much to Koala's shock. It then begins to snow, and everyone celebrates. Later, everyone is eating and having a good time.
A few weeks pass, and the crew arrives at an island called Foolshout Island. This island is where Koala's home town is located. Macro and Gyaro say tearful goodbyes and an annoyed Kuroobi tells them to control themselves. Tiger asks where her village is, saying he will take her as far as the entrance. Koala says goodbye to the crew and everyone waves back, as she leaves with Fisher Tiger, playfully holding his hand. Arlong comments that Koala will grow up to be like any other human, Jinbe and Macro both tell him to stop. Arlong tells Jinbe he has changed over the last three years, and asks him if it really makes a difference if one person believes that fish-men are good people, saying Otohime's beliefs fell on deaf ears the same way. Meanwhile, Tiger and Koala have arrived at her village. Everyone is stunned to see she has returned, and her mother starts crying. She runs to her mother as Tiger keeps his distance, smiling at the reunion as Koala and her mother hug, although everyone else gives Tiger mean or uncomfortable stares. Tiger turns to leave and waves goodbye without looking back. When Koala waves back, he turns around to wave. After getting a little ways away from the town, he is intercepted by Rear Admiral Strawberry. Strawberry tells him that they were tipped off that he would be coming to this island, saying the people in Koala's village were okay with the Marines capturing him, in exchange for the Marines being willing to overlook the fact that Koala was property of the World Nobles, and charge Tiger with evasion and assault for the attack on Mary Geoise.
Back at the ship, the Sun Pirates hear gun shots coming from the direction of the village. They then look out to sea and Chew exclaims that they are surrounded by Marines. The Marines start firing and Jinbe orders everyone to abandon ship and make for the ocean floor, realizing Tiger is in trouble. The scene changes back to Tiger and the Marines, with Tiger is on one knee and covered in blood. One Marine exclaims that he just will not fall while another reminds him that Tiger was the one who attacked Mary Geoise. Tiger then attacks a soldier, knocking the gun from his hand and sending him into a rock. The Sun Pirates call out to him, and someone alerts Strawberry that they have arrived. Strawberry simply comments that the pirates have been quite the topic of conversation recently. While Jinbe is leading one faction of the Sun Pirates to fight the Marines, Arlong is still under water with the rest of the crew, saying they will steal a Marine ship to compensate for theirs being destroyed. Back at the town, Koala asks her mother if she heard something just now. Her mother, without looking at her daughter, simply replies that she had not.
There is a narration saying that Fisher Tiger was critically wounded from the ambush, but that the crew was able to steal a Marine ship. Inside the ship's sick bay, Hatchan cannot understand what Tiger is saying. Aladine says that he is losing too much blood and they need to perform a transfusion. Unfortunately, no one in the crew had usable blood for Tiger, as he possessed a rare type. Someone asks if the blood stock on the ship could be used, and Aladine states that humans and fish-men have the same blood, assuring Tiger they can use human blood to save him. Aladine is about to start the transfusion, when Tiger yells at him not to put human blood in him. He calls it dirty blood that has the hatred of fish-men flowing through it and he does not want to owe anything to humans. With tears in his eyes, Tiger professes his will to not give in to humans. Tiger then admits to them something he had been keeping secret. He reveals that on his last excursion, he was never on a voyage. He was captured, and had spent the several years time at Mary Geoise, and tearfully bellows that he had been a slave. No one can believe what they are hearing from their captain. Tiger describes what he had seen as 'human madness." He had barely escaped with his life and could not abandon the other slaves. He then tells them to listen carefully. He tells them that he always lived by his beliefs, making things truly difficult for Otohime's ambition as a result. He admits that Otohime is right, that everyone should try and live in peace. The ones who can change the world are people like Koala who do not know about hatred. He begs the crew not to tell anyone about what he told them about their rage or their tragedy. He knows the world is full of kind-hearted humans, but that they are a dying breed, and soon all that will remain is hate. He tells them that he knows all of this, but a demon has taken his heart, which would make his body reject the human blood. Crying hysterically, he tells them that he has tried, but could never love a human.
Jinbe begs him not to talk like that, saying he has to live. Aladine tells him that all the slaves he freed owe him a massive debt they will never be able to repay, saying he is still the hero of Fish-Man Island. Tiger tells him he is happy to hear that. Tiger remembers when he took control of the Fish-Man District, right before he dies. The crew is crying uncontrollably. The chapter goes into narration, saying that the curtains have closed on the life of the honorable fish-man, Fisher Tiger.
Some time later, Arlong went back to Foolshout Island to seek revenge on the humans that betrayed and helped to murder his captain. Things did not go smoothly however, and he was attacked and brutally beaten by Vice Admiral Borsalino. An enraged Arlong, with tears in his eyes, exclaims that he is going to kill all the people here who sold out his captain, and then kill everyone on the island that initially tipped off the Marines, saying Tiger was killed by bottom feeders. Borsalino is seemingly glad to hear confirmation of Tiger's death, and then tells Arlong that he is coming with him.

The chapter starts at Marine base G-2, where a narration recaps Fisher Tiger's death and Arlong's capture from the previous chapter. Arlong is finishing an account of Fisher Tiger's death, angrily saying that humans drove his former captain to his death. A little later in the Grand Line, Jinbe is reading aloud Arlong's account to the Marines in a newspaper. The story he read stated Fisher Tiger died after being refused a blood transfusion. Jinbe comments that there is a lot left out of the story. Aladine comments that humans were the cause of it all. Jinbe comments about how Arlong lied to the Marines. Aladine recites part of the altered story saying that Tiger was betrayed by humans and could not accept the transfusion because of the grudge he bore. He adds that he left out Tiger's past as a slave, saying the reality is much crueler, and Tiger's reputation would have been tarnished. Just then, Hatchan sees an enemy ship and alerts Jinbe. Jinbe says that it is too late now and they cannot bring back their late captain. He then gives the order to prepare for battle and not to kill anyone. A narration states that the Sun Pirates, under Jinbe's command, focused on nothing but fighting. The scene changes briefly to Marineford, where Strawberry is talking about Jinbe being the most dangerous member of the Sun Pirates with his strength being anything but ordinary.
The scene changes to Ryugu Palace, where Neptune is reading a letter from Jinbe, telling the true story behind Fisher Tiger's death. Neptune comments that Tiger had lived the only way he could. Otohime tells him that she understood what his heart was saying the last time he visited the palace. She then adds that she can succeed in her mission and will not lose. Otohime is next seen outside, asking for people to sign her petition like always. The citizens have a hard time accepting her petition, after what the humans did to Fisher Tiger (from Arlong's altered story). Otohime goes back to Ryugu Palace where she rests her head in four year old Shirahoshi's lap. Shirahoshi asks if she is okay, as do Ryuboshi and Manboshi, while Fukaboshi comments that she looks completely exhausted. Otohime says she probably overworked herself today, but is okay. She then makes a promise to the future with her children, marked by them putting their pinky fingers together. A narration takes over, saying that every day, Otohime would make her rounds, rescuing people from shipwrecks, teaching children about the surface world, giving speeches in the streets, and trying to get signatures.
One day, Otohime is approached by a group of citizens, asking how many signatures she had collected so far. Over the last five years, Otohime had collected one thousand signatures, from an island with a population of five million people. The group then asks Otohime to cancel all of their signatures. A group of children then approach her, asking the same thing for their parents. One citizen tries to politely tell her that they have gotten tired of her constant speeches and campaigning. When Otohime gets back to the palace, she tells her children that she did her best, and asks to be alone. Once alone, she starts crying uncontrollably, while a perplexed Neptune sits on his throne, head in hand. Sometime later, Otohime yells how everyone is a liar. The Minister of the Left tells her that the national broadcast system was on and asks her if she had been drinking. Otohime denies this despite the numerous alcohol bottles around her and her slurred speech saying otherwise. Over the broadcast system, Otohime angrily denies her inebriation for everyone to hear. Otohime talks into the transceiver, saying that the people of Fish-Man Island live in the boundless ocean, on the dark sea floor. She then asks why they chose to live in this exact spot. She tells them it is because of the small amount of light and air available, but that there is even more light on the surface and the sky is much higher. She asks why children sneak off to go see Sabaody Park when there are even greater places to see in the world. Otohime declares that the children of the island should be able to go anywhere, and that the parents should give them a reason to grow up, asking them if they are just okay with giving up. She then issues a call to everyone to find the courage to go after what they want. If the humans are the wall that is stopping them, then they need to break through that wall. If they do that, then the future for the children of Fish-Man Island might change for the better, if only by a small amount.
The scene changes to the surface, where a World Government messenger bat is flying away from the Sun Pirates' ship. Jinbe has been invited to join the Shichibukai. Macro comments that his bounty is at 250,000,000 and that it is only a matter of time before the government sees him as a threat. Chew remarks that the World Government has finally acknowledged their power and tells everyone that they should make an even more infamous name for themselves. Jinbe calmly responds by saying that he was thinking of accepting the government's offer, much to the surprise of his crew. Jinbe is then seen at Ryugu Palace, talking to Neptune about his invitation. He tells Neptune that if he becomes a Shichibukai, then they can get a pardon from the government, and then anyone who does not want to be a pirate can continue to live on the island. More importantly, it would bring fish-man kind one step closer to equality with the government. He also adds that he wants to do it for Otohime as well, since their actions have somewhat deterred her cause. Neptune agrees, saying it would cheer her up. Jinbe adds that this is what Tiger would have wanted. As he says this, Hody Jones is seen as one of the guards in the throne room. When Jinbe adds that there are a few things about the pardon that bother him, Jones is seen with a look of disbelief on his face after hearing the true ideals of Fisher Tiger.
The scene changes to Impel Down, where Arlong is being released into the custody of the Sun Pirates. Arlong is mad that Jinbe would willingly become a government dog by joining the Shichibukai. Jinbe reminds Arlong of Tiger's words of about living without hatred and resentment. Arlong retorts that times have changed. He adds that he is going back to his old crew, the Arlong Pirates, and is taking the slaves with him. At an island, Arlong says goodbye but gives Jinbe one last chance to stop him. Arlong tells Jinbe that he either kills him or Arlong will do as he pleases. He then declares that he will be the "rage" of the fish-men. Jinbe repeatedly punches him, telling him to show some respect. After the fight, Arlong is carried off by the fish-men who joins him. Later on Jinbe's ship, Aladine tells Jinbe that there is nothing to worry about. Like Jinbe, Arlong is a brother from the Fish-Man District. As long as he has a purpose, the only thing that can stop Arlong is death. Jinbe, visibly bothered, asks aloud why Arlong could not understand Fisher Tiger's will. As long as Arlong takes his way by force, the Marines will take action, and if they do not, the Sun Pirates will have to take action against him. A narration takes over, saying how the Sun Pirates split into three factions after Jinbe joined the Shichibukai. There were the Arlong Pirates, the Macro Pirates, and the Sun Pirates.
The scene changes to Fish-Man Island. The border guard is calling the palace to ask for permission to grant a wrecked ship emergency access to the island. The Minister of the Right orders the guard to let the ship in. The guard replies that the ship has World Nobles aboard. Otohime orders the guard to let the ship in and to send an emergency response team to the coast. Otohime takes off, saying she will be right there.

The chapter starts with a crowd gathering around the wrecked World Noble ship. Someone comments that the ship looks like it was attacked. Everyone is shocked to see a Celestial Dragon on the ocean floor. The World Noble is trying to order people around. The man is on the ground, distressed over the death of everyone on board, and demands someone bring him an air helmet. The man is introduced as Mjosgard. He comments how the island smells of fish-men, and orders for a helmet to be brought to him and save his life. He orders the people to get him a doctor, saying he is dying. A palace guard asks where the medical teams are. Another responds that they are coming but they need to figure out how to handle him. Hody Jones says he needs to be killed, saying he is the worst trash in the world. At a bar, someone comments on the noise coming from the harbor. The man turns out to be Vander Decken IX, and one of his crew members explains about the injured Celestial Dragon. Mjosgard is angry over what happened to him. He has a flashback to when he was on the ship. He is talking to his father, who is explaining why they are going to Fish-Man Island. It turns out that some of the Sun Pirates used to be slaves to them, so they are going to Fish-Man Island to reclaim them.
A group of Sun Pirates approach Mjosgard, they are all holding guns. Mjosgard recognizes them as his former slaves, and asks why they will not behave and come home, asking who gave them permission to be free. All of the pirates then turn their guns on him, with one of them stepping on the pistol wielded by the noble. The regular citizens panic, saying that the pardon the World Government granted to Jinbe would be void if they hurt him. Mjosgard orders them to stop, asking if they knew who he is? One of the pirates calmly tells him that the only thing that keeps him a noble on the surface is the immediate presence and support of the Marine admirals. If people on the island kept quiet, then Moisgard's death could just be another shipwreck incident. Mjosgard then realizes the gravity of the situation and how much the tables had turned against him. The citizens cheer the pirates on, saying they will keep quiet. They then encourage the pirates to kill him, saying he is half dead anyway and he would have a taste of the pain he had inflicted. Mjosgard objects, defending himself by simply stating he is a noble, but the fish-man said he decided he could not forgive him and shoots. Someone calls out for him to stop. Otohime then grabs the noble and pulls him out of the way, the bullet grazing the left side of her rib cage. Everyone is astonished that the bullet hit the queen. Otohime then orders everyone to throw down their weapons, since there are children watching. The pirate who fired the shot, as well as everyone with children look on in stunned disbelief.
Jinbe is then seen talking to Aladine, asking what happened to the Celestial Dragon. Aladine responds that he had just arrived as well. Shirahoshi and her brothers appear behind Jinbe. Fukaboshi tells him that their mother just flew out of the castle suddenly. Shirahoshi asks Fukaboshi what a Celestial Dragon is, and Fukaboshi responds that it is a human, only it is meant to be feared. Otohime examines her wound, seeing the bullet only grazed her. A man asks Otohime why she protected him, asking if she knew what the World Nobles had done to them in the past. Otohime tells them that she can feel the pain in their hearts, and she knows the hate they have for human, but they cannot pass it onto their children, telling them to think of their future. Jinbe then remembers Fisher Tiger's last words, telling him to keep his hatred of humans a secret. Mjosgard picks up his pistol. Manboshi yells for his mother to look out, but it's too late, and Mjosgard already has the gun pointed at Otohime's head. Shirahoshi calls out to her mother out of fear, emitting sonar waves along with her shout. There is a crash from behind the wrecked ship and five Sea Kings appear, one of them begins to eat the ship. Everyone is stunned to see the huge creatures. The noble passes out foaming at the mouth at the sight of the huge animals. All the Sea Kings then leave. Vander Decken IX, after getting over the initial shock is overjoyed at what he saw, wondering if he had found the legend.
Shirahoshi is still crying. Jinbe wonders if her cry and the appearance was coincidence. Otohime is shocked at her daughter's apparent ability. Vander Decken IX then recalls the story of his ancestors. It was a legend involving a mermaid princess who could call forth Sea Kings that drew the first Vander Decken to the ocean floor. Decken then calls out to his ancestors that he had succeeded in finding the legendary mermaid. The two crewmates with him are excited. Decken tells them to keep quiet, as they are the only ones who are aware of the legend as far as he knows. Decken then ponders how to become the princesses husband. A crewmate reminds him that Shirahoshi is only a child, and Decken realizes that could be a problem. Aladine is looking at the unconscious World Noble as Otohime walks past him. He tells her that he will see to the man's treatment and hers as well.
Several weeks later, the noble is healed. Mjosgard angrily walk up the steps to his ship, saying that they (referring to them as cattle) dared point their guns at him, promising they would regret their actions. This angers the guards. One asks why he is still holding a grudge after they saved his life. He then says they cannot let him go home, as it would put the island in danger. Otohime then stops him, saying they have unfinished business and she tells him that she will come with him to the surface. Mjosgard seems less than thrilled, and a citizen asks what the queen what she is thinking. Neptune objects, saying he should go if it is about speaking with the nobles. Someone calls out to Neptune that humans would not miss a chance to capture him. Otohime objects, saying it would be meaningless for someone strong like Neptune to go. She has to show that someone weak can survive on the surface in order to prove it is not something to be feared. Her own child as well as others object, while another child asks where she will go. Neptune tries to object one last time, but Otohime tells him to trust her as his wife and to trust humanity. Mjosgard is furious that she would invite herself onto his ship like that. Neptune and his children look downtrodden. A narration then takes over, saying that anxious and sleepless nights befall the island. Neptune is seen trying to raise his children's spirits. A mermaid asks Jinbe how Otohime is doing and Jinbe tells her that all they can do is wait and believe in her. Someone remarks that he wants to hear her speeches again. The passing of the week felt like one hundred days. Otohime returns a week later. The narration states that she was able to calm the Celestial Dragon. Everyone is glad to see her return safely. Otohime is seen holding a document that would become known as "Fish-Man Island's Light of Hope".

The chapter starts out with Vander Decken IX setting up a scheme. He plans to use the Tamatebako to age Shirahoshi from a child into a mature woman. The problem is the Tamatebako is in the Ryugu Palace and Decken cannot enter the palace unless he marries Shirahoshi. Decken decides to give Shirahoshi ten or twenty years first. His henchmen state that Shirahoshi will be bigger but Decken says that he does not have a problem with big women. Decken starts writing wedding invitations, but his henchmen say that he needs to propose first.
The paper Queen Otohime returned with was a petition with World Noble signatures, approving friendship between humans and fish-men. All the citizens of Fish-Man Island now agree with Otohime, and she gathers more signatures than ever before, more than the box can hold. Otohime burst into tears of joy seeing that her efforts have finally come to fruition after seven years. At the palace, Otohime celebrates her success with the rest of her family.
Some time later, Otohime explains about Shirahoshi's ability to summon Sea Kings to her sons. According to her, there is a legend of a mermaid princess that is born once every several centuries. That mermaid can communicate with Sea Kings. It turns out that Shirahoshi is the princess of legend. The prophecy says that one day someone will appear before her to guide her and teach her to use her power for the greater good and bring a massive change to the world. If used with a sinister intent, her power could bring great destruction. Otohime is concerned since Shirahoshi has not learnt to control her powers and the Sea Kings could go on a rampage if she loses herself like the last time. She asks her sons to protect their sister with their lives as both warriors and brothers if the time comes.
One day, in the Gyoncorde Plaza, someone sets fire to the box holding the collected signatures. As the soldiers try to save the signatures, a gun shot is heard. At first they don't know what the sound was, but then they see that Otohime has been shot. In the midst of chaos, Vander Decken IX touches Shirahoshi but is shot at by the guards and runs away. The three princes immediately go to their mother's side. As Otohime lays there dying, she tells her sons that no matter who the perpetrator is, they mustn't allow themselves to be enraged for her sake. Shirahoshi almost loses control again. To prevent her from crying out loud, Ryuboshi and Manboshi try in a desperate attempt to cheer her up with dances and songs. While weeping, Fukaboshi swears to his mother that he and his brothers will keep their promise of protecting Shirahoshi. The chapter ends with the four children of the Neptune family touching pinky fingers with their mother for the last time.

The person who shot Queen Otohime is shot and killed. Jinbe looks at the person and tells the guards nearby to keep quiet about it. Hody Jones picks up the body, calling it reality. Jinbe tells him it is not like that, but Jones is not listening. Jones stands on top of a building and shows the body for everyone to see. He then proclaims that a human snuck into the island and killed the queen. Everyone is in dismay over this revelation. They now believe that fish-men could never join humans on the surface. The Minister of the Left questions the existence of God. Sometime later, Neptune goes into Hard-Shell Tower and locks himself in, telling the guards not to let him out until he has dispelled his killing urges. The Minister of the Left is sitting outside the door to the tower, listening to the king. Neptune tells him he would have killed the human even if he wasn't armed, but Otohime would not have forgiven him for it. He goes on to say that as a king he understands and feels for what Otohime said. But as a husband, cannot understand why he is not able to torture the person who murdered his wife. He talks about how it would not be the same if he took up her cause, and that there are things even a warrior cannot protect.
Later, someone tells Neptune something strange is going on. Shirahoshi complaints to him about the letter, saying it flies after her no matter where she goes. Fukaboshi adds that it is the fifth letter as well. After learning about Vander Decken, Neptune tells his children to stay home from the funeral, as the killer might have accomplices. He orders the guards to find Vander Decken immediately. At the funeral, everyone is standing in front of Otohime's grave. Fukaboshi then appears on a large video screen. He tells the people that he and his siblings will carry on their mother's ambition, and Fish-Man Island will be ready for Levely, if not the one two years from now, then the one in six years, and if not that, then the one in ten years. Fukaboshi tells them they will start fresh with new signatures, and they will all dream of the sun. The flashback ends.
Jinbe adds that the princes and princess have been true to their word in those ten years. Jinbe tells Nami that because he was not there to stop Arlong's tyranny, he will accept responsibility as his former captain. Luffy, meanwhile, is asleep. Jinbe explained that because Arlong paid off the Marines in the area, no information about his actions made it to headquarters. Sanji, still furious at Jinbe, orders him to slice open his stomach, saying if anything, it will make Nami feel slightly better. Nami tells him to stop, saying Jinbe did not mean any harm. Jinbe tells her he will take any punishment she wishes. Nami tells him to stop thinking that way since he wasn't part of Arlong's gang and more importantly, he is Luffy's friend. Nami tells him that out of that horrible experience came a new friend (Sanji asks if she meant him) and harbors no resentment toward fish-men. She tells Jinbe not to apologize. Jinbe is awestruck by what Nami has said. He gets on his hands and knees, saying he is in her debt. Nami then realizes the pain Jinbe was feeling from the whole Arlong ordeal and how it had been eating at him for so long. Franky starts to cry too, saying he feels Jinbe's pain and how much he loves fish-men.
Sanji kicks Luffy awake. Luffy wakes up and asks Jinbe what happened to the robber who attacked Otohime at the beginning of the story, much to Sanji's chagrin. Nami and Chopper start talking to Shirahoshi, asking if she is indeed the princess and if she is friends with Sea Kings. Shirahoshi says she is, and apologizes as she cannot help but cry when thinking of her mother. Nami tells her Otohime was an amazing mother, and Shirahoshi agrees. Shirahoshi tells Nami she feels comfortable around her despite this being their first meeting. Nami replies it might be because they have similar backgrounds.
Jinbe then starts talking about the situation at the palace. The New Fish-Man Pirates have taken it over with Neptune and the guards held captive. Zoro, Usopp, Brook, and Pappag are there as well with their situation unknown. Hatchan tells Jinbe that if everything goes according to Jones' plan, things will have gotten much worse. Jinbe asks if Hatchan knows Jones' plans, and the octopus replies he does. Before going on, Hatchan sites the one difference between Hody Jones and Arlong. Arlong hates humans, but would never hurt a fellow fish-man. Jones hates humans, and will kill any fish-man who sympathizes with them. Hatchan tells them Levely is this year, and that Neptune plans on attending since they have enough signatures, and telling the humans about Fish-Man Island's plan to migrate to the surface. Jinbe exclaims that Jones is planning to stop Neptune from going. Hatchan tells him there is more to it, but before he can go any further, something frightens Chopper. Something came out of the forest. Den identifies it as a mobile visual Den Den Mushi that is hooked up to a monitor. Hody Jones is then seen on the monitor. Hody greets the people of Fish-Man Island, does a sound check, and then introduces himself as the captain of the New Fish-Man Pirates.

A citizen is being forced to step on the fumi-e of Otohime. Daruma remarks how boring it is, since everyone is stepping on it, albeit reluctantly. Hody Jones' broadcast then starts. He declares that Fish-Man Island will collapse and be reborn under the new king, himself. These announcements make people wonder what happened to Neptune and the Straw Hats. Jones then declares that anyone who is seeking peace or friendship with humans should leave the island. He tells the people that residents of the Fish-Man District are migrating to the main area of the island, all of whom hate humans. This terrifies the people watching the broadcast. Jones adds that humans will continually betray them, no matter how nice they seem to act. The three princes are watching the broadcast, all furious. He tells them that the path Neptune is leading them on only leads to death. He then shows the tied up Neptune, much to the shock and anger of his children as well as everyone watching. Nami realizes they were the ones who caused Neptune to be captured, citing Zoro in specific. Jinbe is shocked by this news and asked Nami what they are trying to do. Camie tries to tell him that it was a misunderstanding started by the palace guards. Jones then says it is time to bid farewell to the current Ryugu Kingdom, and that in three hours, he will take Neptune's head in Gyoncorde Plaza.
Hody holds a piece of paper and a box next to him filled with thousands of papers. They are the letter from the Celestial Dragons and the petitions that Otohime collected. He calls the petitions as a list of traitors. The petitions will serve as a more comprehensive black list of who is with him and who is against him. Jones then addresses the Straw Hat Pirates. He shows them Usopp, Brook, and Zoro locked in a cage. He tells them that after the king is executed, the room they are in will have filled with water, drowning them. He then holds up Luffy's wanted poster, saying he will take the captain's head as well and show it to the people on the surface. He then declares that the cleansing of Ryugu Kingdom will begin and that in three hours Fish-Man Island will be reborn as a nation of pride. Fukaboshi declares he will not let that happen.
In the royal palace Usopp, Brook, and Zoro are locked away. Zoro tells Usopp to open the lock, and Usopp commands it to open. Brook was thinking about when someone was surprised to see him move, thinking he was a fake skeleton. Usopp and Zoro angrily tell him that if he had played dead he could have escaped. Brook then makes a dead joke. Zoro then says it was a good thing Nami and the others got away. Usopp then does an impression of Robin, commenting that Nami might have been eaten by a deep sea fish, making Brook laugh.
In the Sea Forest Robin is examining the poneglyph in the forest, saying it is different from the ones she has read up until now. It is written like an apology letter, mentioning someone called Joy Boy. Robin wonders who that is. Back at the ship, Luffy is excited over his bounty going up. Nami slaps him and Sanji says it is obvious the New Fish-Man Pirates want to pick a fight. Jinbe remarks how high Luffy's bounty is, and then tells Luffy to wait before going to fight Hody. Shirahoshi then tries to take off for the palace on Megalo, but Jinbe stops her as well. Jinbe reveals that Hody Jones is terrified of Shirahoshi's ability to summon Sea Kings. Shirahoshi is the one true threat to his plan. Hatchan adds that he is using the king as a shield against her. The reason Jones even teamed up with Vander Decken IX is because he was already after the princess' life. Shirahoshi explains that she knows about her power, but has never actually spoken with Sea Kings, she is not even sure if she has the ability. Jinbe says that Jones cannot find out, and his fear alone should be enough to keep him away.
Luffy then tries to take off on Megalo, high-fiving Sanji and telling him to take care of "weakling". Jinbe stops him, saying Luffy must not fight Hody. Chopper and Franky asks if it is because they are humans. Jinbe tells Luffy to leave it to him. Luffy replies that his crew is being held hostage, and as the captain he must save them. Jinbe tells Luffy that if he does not stop he will have no other choice but to fight him.

Jinbe and Luffy argue about how to handle the Hody Jones situation, while everyone else tries to convince them not to fight. Luffy attempts to get away on Megalo, but Jinbe hits him with a Fish-Man Karate attack. Everyone wonders how the attack could hurt Luffy. Jinbe explains that Fish-Man Karate users control the water around them, and since all living creatures are technically nothing but water sacks, even Luffy is weak against it. Luffy uses a "Gomu Gomu no Jet Stamp" on Jinbe, but it barely injures him as he parries the hit. They attempt to fight again, but Robin appear in between them, saying that is enough fighting. Luffy and Jinbe tell her to move, Sanji, thinking Robin is in danger, leaps toward her, Robin disappears, leaving Sanji in the crossfire of Luffy's and Jinbe's punches towards each other. As the three fall on the ground, Robin comes out of the forest, confusing Chopper. Jinbe tells Luffy that if he, the man who stopped Arlong, took down Hody, the wall between humans and fish-men would only get stronger. Sanji, still on the ground, tells Jinbe it is only natural they would want to save their crew mates, but Fish-Man Island and the friends they made on it are also in danger. Then he remarks Hatchan's reluctance to tell them about how he got injured and deduces it was the New Fish-Man Pirates who did it. Sanji tells Jinbe that despite this being his country, they have a reason to stay and fight. He then goes into a perverted outburst about the mermaids on the island. Jinbe and Luffy are still at odds about it.
At Ryugu Palace, Hody is about to leave, leaving only a few guards to open the door when they get back because the palace is like an impenetrable fortress. Then he makes a joke about the king and remarks that his wound from Zoro still hurts when he is asked about the captured Straw Hats. After being given some Energy Steroids, he says the Straw Hats will drown in the chamber and that no one will be able to rescue them. Hody is told that the residents of the Fish-Man District are on their way. Hody says that they will have plenty of homes from the citizens who are going either leave or be killed, and says it will be a great nation where all despise humans.
In Candy Factory Town, Daruma is devouring parts of a wall of the candy factory. He is enraged that his subordinates brought him cappuccino and pastries for a snack like some office lady. He threatens to tear apart the fish-men and that his favorite food is giant fish bones. As he heads off to kill some soldiers, he tells his men to leave the citizens alone as they know their fates already. The citizens take note of the New Fish-Man Pirate members' strength. They now believe their only hope are the three princes.
Back at Ryugu Palace, Brook reveals that he can remove his soul from his body. He explains that he discovered this while praying and perversely asks them what they think he did first, much to Usopp's jealously and Zoro's annoyance. Usopp tells Brook to find Pappag and have him find keys, while Zoro says just to get him his sword and he will cut the cage open. Brook finds Pappag and tries to get him to help them, but Pappag is frightened by Brook and runs for his life.

Dosun and his comrades were defeated and tied up in chains by Fukaboshi. Due to the heavy injuries he received from fighting Fukaboshi, his "-dosun" speech has powered down to "kotsun". Fukaboshi and his brothers left to save their father. Dosun's speech patterns change depending on how much power he has left. The citizens plan on using Dosun as a hostage to keep the king from being executed, but Dosun tells them that Hody will not hesitate to throw his comrades away. A pirate throws an Energy Steroid in Dosun's mouth. At first he was speaking with the residents weakly, but his speech pattern starts changing. He then rips apart the chains holding him. He swears revenge against Fukaboshi as Dosun destroys a house with his hammer. Dosun then tells his men that they are heading to Gyoncorde Plaza.
In front of the Fish-Man's Meeting Hall, a drunken Hyouzou is seen. When drunk, Hyouzou slashes people with no discrimination, and slices up many New Fish-Man Pirates that came to try and sober him up.
The scene shifts to the Marine Shopping Mall. Zeo attacks a citizen with a chained weapon. They cannot tell where Zeo is attacking from. It is revealed that Zeo has the ability to blend in with his surroundings. While appearing invisible to them, Zeo tells the citizens that they have no hope. Three pirates see a cockroach and try to smash it. It turns out that the roach was under Zeo and the pirates unintentionally smash Zeo as well. After Zeo becomes visible again, the pirates are shocked at their mistake. Zeo starts talking like nothing happened (he calls himself a nobility of fish-men). He then gets back up and tells his men to head for Gyoncorde Plaza.
Fukaboshi and his brothers head to the plaza as well while riding on their gondola. One of the soldiers pointed out that Hody might set a trap, but Fukaboshi resolves to stop Hody. Manboshi now understands why Jinbe always kept an eye on Hody and why human pirates have not been visiting the island recently while Ryuboshi wonders if their sister is safe. Fukaboshi and Manboshi discuss about the Straw Hat Pirates. Both agree that they do not feel any ill intent from the Straw Hat pirates despite Madam Shyarly's prediction. Manboshi also adds that the mermaids from Mermaid Cove are able to see through to people's bad intentions and did not say anything.
In Gyoverly Hills, a sea bear is attacking the ministers and palace soldiers while Ikaros Much watches from the sidelines. Even though the ministers and the soldiers are utterly defeated, the sea bear keeps attacking. The pirates use fire to frighten the sea bear in an attempt to stop it. Ikaros Much sees the fire and screams. He bends his body over backwards in terror. He tells them to put out the fire, and the pirates asks him why the flame is bothering him. Apparently, Ikaros is traumatized by his giant squid friend who got too close to the sun and dried up and Ikaros developed a fear of fire. Ikaros then stabs the offender with his dried squid spear. The heads of the spears are dried squids that suck all the water out of anyone they pierce and revert back to a living squid. Ikaros then pummels the dried pirate.
He looks up and sees Hody and his crew mates riding on a sea monster with King Neptune in tow. He asks what is wrong with Hody. One of the pirates says that Hody had kept taking pills to ease the pain he received from Zoro, and the side effects of the pills are starting to cause him tremendous pain to the point that Hody has trouble breathing. Hody screams out in pain and it frightens the sea bear. Hody gets up (only his arm is seen in the panel).

Vander Decken IX is sobbing about Shirahoshi not loving him and even shaved his hair in sorrow, though only the top of his head. He gets mad when is his crew tries to console him and goes into a haiku about Shirahoshi saying he is not her type. Decken wants to kill her, but everything he sends flying towards her gets blocked by Luffy. Then he gets an idea that involves breaking something all apart.
In Gyoverly Hills, the citizens are shocked. The Sea Beasts had easily defeated Neptune's Army. The Minister of the Left lamented that they almost made it to Levely this year and that Queen Otohime's dream almost came true before all this happened. He begs God to let some miracle happen and that the king will be executed in one hour.
At the entrance of Gyoncorde Plaza, the New Fish-Man Pirates have blocked the citizens from entering. In the plaza, Neptune is on the execution stage (which is the same place where Queen Otohime was assassinated). Due to surviving the overdose of Energy Steroids, Hody Jones has mutated into a behemoth of his former self. King Neptune is lamenting his soldiers being killed, while the pirates mock them. A soldier stands up with dynamite and intends on blowing himself up and hopefully take some of the pirate leaders with him. But Hody hits him with a Water Shot and to everyone amazement the shot goes flying across Fish-Man Island and lands right outside Mermaid Cove. His crew comments on how he was just on the verge of death and how his hair turned white. Hody, still amazed by his strength, says he feels incredible.
Just then, the three princes arrive at the plaza. The pirates, save the leaders, panic, and the king warns them to be careful of the sea beasts and the drugged pirates. Ryuboshi says that there is no way Neptune's Army would be defeated so easy and to for him to just wait. Fukaboshi calls Hody and the pirates the weakest people on the island and that the citizens of Fish-Man Island have already gotten past the discrimination of humankind and that the river of time has already washed away the "Legend" and "Queen" killed by humans and that the citizens endured the pain and signed the petition and asks why the pirates cannot comprehend their determination and that the pirates who wallow in revenge will not take the king, the citizens, or the kingdom from them and the princes defeat the sea beasts in fell swoop. Manboshi says that they will defeat them and they choose a future of love with humankind. Ryuboshi says that even if the pirate won that they will never get a chance to make peace with humans again. The citizens cheer on the princes while Hody tells them that they can say whatever they want, in the end the Island will belong to the victor, and fight between the princes and the pirates begin.
Meanwhile, Jinbe and Shirahoshi are riding Megalo to the plaza.

The chapter starts with the three princes defeated tied up along side Neptune. Shirahoshi and Jinbe are over the Gyoncorde Plaza and see something that looks like Neptune. The princes apologize to their father for letting the country fall into Hody's hands. The New Fish-Man Pirates are excited, suggesting different ways of killing their captives. Hody tells them to be quiet, since there is no report on Shirahoshi's death from Decken and his crew. Without her gone, the plan would be meaningless. Manboshi is furious at Hody for targeting Shirahoshi, who is not even a threat. Hody replies that, on the contrary, Shirahoshi is the biggest threat to him. Just then, Shirahoshi, Jinbe, and Megalo all crash to the ground in chains. Jones thinks it is his lucky day, as the two he wanted to kill the most have fallen right in front of him. Shirahoshi apologizes for falling into such an obvious trap. The citizens are surprised at the arrival of both people. Hody says that the only people left are the Straw Hats, who should have arrived at Ryugu Palace by now. But that does not matter since preparations have been made. Pirates start walking out of a nearby building. There are 70,000 pirates, and 30,000 human slaves, giving Hody an army of 100,000.
Someone calls out to Hody from the crowd, telling him not to get carried away. It is Madam Shyarly. Shyarly tells him about the prediction she made about Fish-Man Island being destroyed. Hody is not surprised, and asks if he was the one that she saw from her prediction. Shyarly tells him that it is Luffy who is going to destroy the island. Hody shoots her out of anger that he might be contradicted. Hody then asks if this is her idea of revenge. He tells her that he is different from her older brother, Arlong, who was admired in the Fish-Man District. But he obtained power. He put his plan into motion ten years ago. Hody Jones then reveals that he was the one who killed Queen Otohime. Everyone is shocked. The officers laugh, and Daruma asks how they could not have noticed this by now. Hody explains that he paid off a human to set fire to the petition box by shooting it. In the midst of the panic caused by that, he shot Otohime and then framed the human. Neptune is furious, but Hody shoots him with a Water Shot at point blank range. He then tells everyone that Otohime's ideals made her death inevitable, asking Shirahoshi if he was right, telling her again that he killed her mother. Much to everyone's surprise, Shirahoshi tells him that she already knew about it.
The scene changes to the Fish-Man District. The Flying Pirates are panicking. Vander Decken IX tells him that long ago the people of Fish-Man Island made a giant ship called Noah, which he had just touched with his right hand. The ship is now heading to Fish-Man Island, where Shirahoshi is.

Shirahoshi explains why she kept the fact that Hody Jones killed her mother secret for ten years. It was because of the promise she made to her mother on her deathbed, that she would not bear any hatred or resentment toward anyone. She also explained that Megalo had seen Hody shoot the queen and had told her later. Jinbe comments on how brave and gentle Shirahoshi is for actually being able to do something like that. Hody only laughs, saying that what Shirahoshi did is called stupidity in the real world. If it had not been for her silence, Hody's plans would have been crushed. But thanks to it, the country will now go to ruin. Hody then assaults the king and princes with a barrage of "Yabusame". The three are now unconscious from the attack.
Luffy Kicks Hody.Some children approach Madam Shyarly and ask her when Luffy will destroy the island. Shyarly tells them she does not know, since her vision never give dates. It could be anywhere from a day to a year from now or more. One of the children tells her he wants it to happen now, as the rampage would be bad for them, but it would also be bad for Hody as well. Some adults hear this too, and agree. They then call out to Luffy to come to the plaza and begin his rampage. Hody is astounded that people would cling to a lie like that and Zeo adds that their shouting is useless. Hody is then about to take Neptune's head, but as he pulls his arm back, Megalo starts to act strangely and spits someone out. The person whom he spat out disappears in a blur, and Hody sees him only for an instant, giving him no time to react as Luffy gives him a devastating kick to the chest.
Hody is thrown back by the attack and everyone is overjoyed that Luffy came. Zeo and Daruma realize he had been hiding in Megalo's mouth the whole time. Jinbe was a little surprised Luffy came out when he did, but figures it could not be helped and yells for people to hurry, as an unseen voice tells him they were hurrying from the start, and that Luffy going according to plan would be a miracle. A mirage dissolves and out steps Nami, holding the Celestial Dragon letter. She tells Jinbe she gave Robin the keys to the royal family's shackles. Arms appear on the chained royals and keys go into the locks. Someone then points to the sky, seeing a whale and a lion. Franky fires the Gaon Cannon at the New Fish-Man Pirates and then tells Hoe that now is his chance. Hoe grabs the injured royals and takes off. Dosun's attempts to stop him are in vain. Fukaboshi tells his father that it appears that Jinbe had been planning with the Straw Hats as the Thousand Sunny touches down in the plaza with a crash. The locals then bombard Luffy with questions. Does he really plan to take down the island? Why did they occupy the palace? Did he kidnap the mermaids? Is he a friend or foe to the island? Luffy, standing ready for battle with Jinbe and his crew, tells the people he will leave it up to them to decide if he is their enemy or not.

A few hours earlier, the Straw Hats and Jinbe are at the Sea Forest discussing their battle plan. Jinbe tells Luffy if he is going to fight Hody, he cannot do it recklessly. He has to do it so he can become a hero to the people of Fish-Man Island. Luffy says that he does not like being a hero. Jinbe then goes into the plan of how he and Megalo will get caught on purpose to infiltrate the plaza with Luffy awaiting a signal in Megalo's stomach. Jinbe adds that he needs the keys to cuffs as well as the Celestial Dragon letter. Nami volunteers herself and Robin for the job. Jinbe tells Luffy he has to make a flashy appearance from Megalo's mouth so the people understand right away whose side he is on. He then orders everyone else to go to Ryugu Palace and free their friends, telling them to figure out how to do it. Hatchan agrees with Jinbe's plan. Luffy tells Jinbe it will throw him off his game if people cheer him on, and Nami remarks it does not happen too often. Jinbe has one last thing to do before implementing the plan, come up with a name for it, but Sanji tells him it is unnecessary.
At the plaza, Hody gets up after getting thrown back from Luffy's kick. The citizens watching from the perimeter acknowledge Luffy the way Jinbe had hoped. Zeo tells them not to get cocky just because they took back the king. The Straw Hats are talking amongst themselves, discussing the rescue, Hoe, and Franky tells them he added two new weapons to the Soldier Dock. They do not notice Zeo at all. When Daruma tells Zeo that, Zeo tells him he said it quietly on purpose. Nami gives Shirahoshi the letter and Luffy tells her she is not as much of a weakling as he had thought. Jinbe commends her for being strong all those years, and Shirahoshi apologizes for keeping the secret to herself. Jinbe then tells Shirahoshi to let him protect Otohime's ideals from now on.
Hody emerges from the dust, calling Vander Decken IX useless, saying he needs Shirahoshi to be taken care of as soon as possible. He then tells Jinbe he cannot stand him for being friends with humans. Hody goes on to say that he will change everything at this year's Levely, by turning Mary Geoise into a royal bloodbath. He will drag the humans on the surface down to be used as slaves, and then go after the pirates on the surface too. He proclaims that he will be the true Pirate King, which upsets Luffy. He then asks what a mere ten fighters can do against his 100,000 strong army. As the pirates cheer, Usopp, Chopper, Nami, and Pappag are in the Soldier Dock's Channel 4, getting ready to use the new weapon, and are quite cramped. Franky tells them to wait a little longer while Sanji does the math on how many people they each must fight. Luffy then steps forward and takes out half of the pirates with a burst of Haoshoku Haki. His crew is impressed with his ability, as is Jinbe. Luffy tells Hody that no matter what kind of king he wants to become, the world only needs one Pirate King. He then uses Gear 3rd and take out several more pirates. Everyone gets ready to join the fray and Franky gets ready to unveil the new weapon.

Zeo calls out to the foot soldiers, saying the Straw Hat Pirates and Jinbe are the true enemies for trying to destroy their goals. Zoro is annoyed at Luffy for taking out too many enemies at once. Sanji challenges Zoro to see who can defeat more pirates. Hody angrily throws a Water Shot at Shirahoshi, but his shot is intercepted by another Water Shot, this time from Jinbe. Jinbe says that Hody's Fish-Man Karate pales in comparison to his own. A pirate mentions he heard that Jinbe's bounty might have gone up beyond 400,000,000 after he resigned from the Seven Warlords of the Sea. The cannon squad aims at Shirahoshi, but Brook intercepts them. Using his violin, he hypnotizes them into thinking they are at a festival, and orders them to shoot their fireworks (in actuality their cannons) into the air in celebration. Dosun yells at them, telling them he said to aim for the princess. When a pirate turns to Dosun, Brook says that they were already cut, using a new technique, Quinte Tierce Fantasia.
The Iron Shell Squad charges at Zoro. Zoro sends them flying with Kokujo: O Tatsumaki. The tornado generated from the attack starts to move, picking up pirates along the way. When asked when it will stop chasing them, Zoro tells them it will go to the ends of Hell. Several merfolk pirates rise into the air, using Bubbly Coral to gain altitude and charge at Shirahoshi. Sanji finds himself surrounded by the Sea Urchin-Armor Spine Squadron. He has a flashback to his days of being chased by the okama. The Sea Urchin-Armor Spine Squadron crash into one another, with Sanji nowhere to be seen. Sanji remembers how he stopped running from the okama, by flying. He is then seen kicking through the air in the same style as Geppo. He intercepts the pirates charging at Shirahoshi and swiftly takes them out with a Diable Jambe: Poele a Frire: Spectre. Robin then creates a giant pair of legs from the ground, using Mil Fleur: Gigantesco Mano. She then attacks all nearby pirates with Stomp.
The Deadly Poison Squad is then called into battle. They watch as the channel on the Soldier Dock changes from 3 to 4. Franky then bursts out on the Kurosai FR-U IV, completely running over the Deadly Poison Squad while Luffy looks at it with stars in his eyes. One fish-man, swinging a spiked ball on a chain, tries to stop Franky, but before he can, something hits him in the face and explodes. Franky then introduces the newest channel, Channel 5, and its contents, the Brachio Tank V with Usopp manning the cannon from inside. Hody orders the kraken to crush the Straw Hats, telling the kraken he brought him back from the North Pole as a slave. Luffy recognizes Surume and asks to ride on his back, saying they are friends. Luffy then sits on Surume's back as the kraken crushes all the nearby New Fish-Man Pirates.

The New Fish-Man Pirates are furious that Surume betrayed them. Luffy orders him to protect Shirahoshi. Chopper realizes that everyone is avoiding them, thinking they must fear the tank. Usopp then tells him that the tank is shaking. It then falls into a hole in the ground. Daruma appears and tells them he ate away at the ground so it would collapse. He then targets Franky's bike. He does not have to do anything though since Franky falls into the same hole the tank is in. Franky asks if the others are ok, then kicks them out of the hole, saying that it is a one person vehicle. He then has the Brachio Tank V and Kurosai FR-U IV do a docking maneuver. They emerge from the hole as the General Franky, a giant robot that looks like Franky. Usopp and Chopper stare in awe. Franky then says he realized Vegapunk's former dream by adapting Wapometal, a shape memory alloy. Franky then pulls out a giant sword on the robot's back, calling it the marauder's sword, Franken. He then uses General Ashimoto Dangerous, a low sweeping attack where he swings the sword along the ground. The pirates dodge this easily by jumping over it when it got to them, saying it was dangerously cheap.
Franky was one step ahead of them. He steps out of a hatch in the robot's chest and uses Franky Cannon, firing the cannons in his own shoulders. A pirate tries to attack Nami, saying she looked weak. Nami just tells him she may not be scary looking but do not underestimate the power of Weatheria (not to mock Weatheria). She then uses Sorcery Clima-Tact: Gust Sword. Usopp attacks a bunch of pirates with Bamboo Javelin, an attack that causes bamboo to shoot from the ground and stab anyone nearby. He then shouts his thanks to Heracles, saying he is beginning a new chapter of his life. Meanwhile, Daruma is underground again, making more pitfalls. He then hears someone else underground with him. The next thing people see is Daruma being blasted out of the ground, followed by Chopper, in a new and improved Horn Point, saying he is also good at digging. Luffy asks Chopper how he turned into a stag beetle. Chopper explains that he can now freely change between six of his seven transformations whenever he wants, and only needs the Rumble Ball to change into the last one. Daruma calls him conceited and say he will rip Chopper to shreds. Chopper corrects him saying he is a conceited "monster".
Hody calls out to the kraken, telling him he did a good job capturing Shirahoshi. He tells Surume that he can go and kill his brothers at the North Pole any time he wants, and he will if Surume keeps betraying them. Surume begins to squeeze tighter, making Shirahoshi uncomfortable. Luffy understands now why Surume had to join the New Fish-Man Pirates. He then tells Surume that he will protect his brothers too. Dosun and Ikaros Much try to attack Luffy but are intercepted and knocked to the ground by Zoro and Sanji respectively. Hody orders his men to attack Luffy, but he vanishes before they can do anything. Before they can figure out where he went, Luffy reappears and delivers a devastating kick to Hody's jaw. Noah then appears on the horizon. Neptune, resting with his sons, sees this and panics. Fukaboshi tries to calm him, saying that it is unexpected but certainly nothing they cannot handle. Neptune tells him that no one can move the ship and until "the day that must come", the ship must absolutely not be moved.

The New Fish-Man Pirates are amazed at Hody Jones' new found strength and endurance and that Luffy was able to hurt him. Luffy comments that Hody is built like a tank. Hody asks Luffy if he knows what Fish-Man Karate is as he thrusts his palm forward. Luffy's head goes flying back, and the pirates think he is finished, but Luffy tells Hody it will not work on him since he is made of rubber. Luffy then imbues his forehead with Busoshoku Haki. Before he can shoot back, the Iron Shell Division gets in front of Hody, shielding him from the attack. Luffy smashes into them, knocking them out using Gomu Gomu no Kane. Jones is about to attack Luffy with a backward roundhouse kick, but Luffy imbues Busoshoku Haki into his arm and stops Hody's kick, injuring Hody in the process. He then throws his legs over his head and delivers a devastating Haki-imbued kick to Hody's head. Hody attacks Luffy with Yabusame, but Luffy manages to dodge all of them using Kenbunshoku Haki. He then delivers a Haki-imbued punch to Hody's stomach, blasting him into the rock wall around the plaza. Everyone is amazed at Luffy's strength.
Suddenly, the plaza becomes dark. Noah has reached the island and is trying to break through the bubble. If the bubble bursts, then part of the island would be destroyed. Everyone panics, asking how Noah could possibly move. Everyone then sees someone falling from the sky. Wadatsumi crashes down, hitting his head. He then gets up and calls to Vander Decken IX to stop Noah, since his foot slipped and now he was in danger. The pirates ask if Hody is alright and if Noah was part of the plan. Hody gets annoyed, saying it wasn't part of the plan. Decken tells Wadatsumi that he cannot save him now, and he would have to be sacrificed for the cause, as whatever he throws cannot be stopped until it reaches the target.
Just as everyone realizes the bubble will not hold, they also realize that Shirahoshi is missing. She then makes her presence known. She is high above the plaza and Jinbe realizes that at that height, she would redirect the ship away from the plaza. Shirahoshi spreads her arms and tells Decken to only take her life and not anyone else's. Everyone is humbled by her sacrifice. Hody realizes that Decken had planned on betraying them all along. Decken throws a knife at Shirahoshi which hits her just below the shoulder. Luffy is annoyed, since he had told Shirahoshi to stay close to him. Just then, people notice Hody has left and he is seen riding on one of the chains trailing from the gigantic ship. Sanji starts using Sky Walk to catch up with the ship, but Luffy tells him to stay at the plaza. Sanji then forewarns Luffy that the ship is sub-merged in water. Jinbe tells Luffy that even though the ship is full of water, Decken is a Devil Fruit user, so there must be air somewhere. He hands Luffy a piece of Bubbly Coral, Luffy grabs onto Sanji's leg, ready for launch.

Noah is going slightly away from the island, thanks to Shirahoshi's efforts. She realizes she has to get into the ocean or the bubble will burst. The main entrance is too far but she has an idea. As Hody Jones climbs the chain, the citizens try to think of something they can do for her. Meanwhile, Sanji is carefully calculating the force with which he must launch Luffy, and throws him with Armee de l'Air Rubber Shoot. He overshoots it slightly and Luffy goes out into the ocean but is close enough so he can grab onto the chain, remarking how huge it is. Luffy looks down and sees Hody below him. He then sees the citizens in the plaza grab the chain in an attempt to slow the enormous boat down. Shirahoshi is touched by their actions. However, Hody is annoyed at them, saying they will not slow it down at all, while Luffy vociferates loudly to stop. Hody attacks the citizens with Yabusame, and they all fall back to the plaza, much to Luffy's anger.
Shirahoshi sees the entrance to the palace and is relieved that it is still open. She goes up the connecting corridor and then breaks through it to go out into the ocean. As the ship rises, Luffy manages to put a protective bubble around himself at the last minute. Unfortunately he let go of the chain and drifted away from it slightly. Hody appears behind him, saying a human who cannot breath underwater can never rule the ocean. Decken calls out to Shirahoshi. He asks if she will die from loss of blood or from getting hit by the ship first. He gives her one last chance. He will save her if she agrees to marry him as he throws knives at her. Shirahoshi apologizes and again tells him he is not her type, much to Decken's stunned surprise as the knives are deflected by something.
Ryuboshi, Manboshi, and Hoe are then seen standing in front of Shirahoshi. Her brothers say there is no way she will marry him and they will not let him hurt their only sister. Decken seems surprised that she called them brothers. Shirahoshi tells them about what happened in the plaza after they left. Ryuboshi then tells them what their father said about how the ship cannot be damaged and they have to land it on the ocean floor where it will not be scratched. Noah appears and crashes into the rocks behind them but they escape. Manboshi tells Shirahoshi to get to the trenches and not to swim too close to Noah. He then points upward, saying there is nothing to damage it at a higher level. Ryuboshi says they will take care of Decken.
Hody is seen smiling, saying Luffy will not get away. Luffy is seen riding on Fukaboshi's back. Luffy thanks him and asks if his wounds are ok. Hody is then seen removing a large scythe blade from a sheath, calling it Kirisame, he then puts it on his back and shoots himself at them, decapitating an oarfish that was near him. Luffy tells Fukaboshi to get him onto Noah's deck so he can fight more easily, saying he promised to protect Shirahoshi. Fukaboshi tells Luffy he and his brothers made the same promise, only they could not compete with Hody. He then apologizes for doubting Luffy. Before he can do anything, Hody shoots past them again, saying he would go to the deck first. Noah is now facing bow-up and is directly over Fish-Man Island. Hody reaches the deck and Decken makes small talk, asking how killing Neptune went and how he is torturing Shirahoshi. Hody suddenly impales him with his trident, asking him what would happen to the ship if he dies.

Hody pulls his trident out of Decken and Decken reveals he touched Hody with his left hand at the last minute and throws an axe at him. Hody tells Decken he betrayed him first, but destroying the island was a great idea. If Decken were to die, the effects of his ability would disappear. Hody then suggests turning the ship around and dealing with the Straw Hat Pirates. Decken says he does not care about them, since he is going to kill Hody first. He then lashes out with a kick, revealing blades hidden in his shoes. Hody catches the leg with his teeth and bites down on it. He then swings Decken around and uses him as a shield to intercept the axe thrown earlier. Hody laughs and says he has to kill Shirahoshi before the ship crashes.
Ryuboshi and Manboshi see Decken defeated and realize Hody is coming after them. He somersaults past them, cutting them with the blade on his back in the process. Ryuboshi tells his sister to run. Before she can, Hody grabs her hair and stops her, saying even a mermaid cannot beat his speed. Luffy then attacks him with Gomu Gomu no Snake Shot, hitting him in the chest. Luffy pulls back his arm from his perch on Fukaboshi's back. Hody tells Luffy he has no chance of winning a fight in the deep sea, saying he cannot protect anything. Luffy says he spent the last two years training to do just that.
Back at Gyoncorde Plaza, Wadatsumi has lost the will to fight, crying that his captain abandoned him. Zeo makes up a lie and tells him that he did not hear Decken's orders to take care of the plaza for him. Zeo throws him an Energy Steroid and Wadatsumi starts his rampage, brutally beating Surume. He then sets his sights on Jinbe. Jinbe blocks his fist with Nanasenmaigawara Mawashigeri, stopping the attack with his foot and hurting Wadatsumi's hand in the process. As Wadatsumi falls, everyone around him is blown away as he falls, including Nami. This angers Sanji and he kicks Wadatsumi in the head, confusing him as to who is attacking him now. Sanji tells him he will pay for hurting Nami. The matchup reads Oonyudo Wadatsumi vs. Sanji and Jinbe.
Elsewhere in the plaza, Hyouzou is on a rampage, his appearance having changed after eating too many Energy Steroids, just like Hody's did, and drinking at the same time. He takes down several people with Chidoriashi Hash. Hyouzou then sets his sights on Robin and charges at her. Zoro appears and blocks the attack (while also cutting Hyouzou's sword with his own), saying he will be taking on Hyouzou, calling him a good warmup for the New World. The match up reads Zoro vs Hyouzou.

Wadatsumi is still under the effects of the Energy Steroid he took. Sanji is still mad at him for "touching Nami with his 'wind pressure'". Nami is seen emitting several dark colored balls in a string from her Clima-Tact. The pirates wonder if she is a witch, to which she replies they can call her Ms. Magician, but in reality her attack is carefully calculated chemistry. She then attacks everyone around her by swinging the staff, performing an attack called Black Ball: Raiun Rod. Zeo and Ikaros Much watch as Nami fights. Zeo remembers what Sanji said about her and realizes that Nami must be the crew's weakness. He turns invisible and grabs her ankles and Ikaros comes up to stab her with a spear. As Nami asks for help, Brook appears in front of her, asking to see her panties and takes two blows at once. One from Ikaros' spear, the other from Nami slapping him. The tip of the spear goes into Brook but nothing happens. Brook explains it is because he is already dried up, much to Ikaros's surprise. General Franky, trying to find a worthy opponent appears from behind Ikaros and delivers a heavy punch to his face, knocking him back. The matchup reads General Franky vs. Ikaros Much.
Back with Nami and Brook, Zeo has become visible, and someone tells Brook he is standing on his face. Zeo's appearance explains to Nami why she could not move. Zeo tries to play it off like he tried to headbutt Brook's foot, with a move he calls Super Sole Head Butt. Matchup reads Zeo vs. Brook. Elsewhere, Daruma is running rampant underground, causing everyone around him to fall into the hollow earth. Daruma is searching for Chopper. Meanwhile, Dosun sees Usopp standing all by himself, telling Chopper to come to where he is. As Dosun is about to attack Usopp, Chopper smells him and tells Usopp to duck, hitting Dosun in the chin with Horn Cannon Elf. Usopp shoots a Pop Green into the hole, using Hissatsu, Midori Boshi: Skull Exploding Grass. The resulting explosion injures a large group of the New Fish-Man Pirates and blasts Daruma out of the hole. Usopp recalls fighting with Miss Merry Christmas back in Arabasta, and how they used the same idea against her. At this point Daruma decides to take more energy steroids. The matchups now read Daruma vs. Usopp and Dosun vs. Chopper. The spectators are surprised by how well the Straw Hats are fighting. Zoro is briefly seen fighting Hyouzou. Jinbe is seen fighting Wadatsumi. Madame Shyarly is then seen looking nervously into the sky.
The scene changes to outside the island. Shirahoshi is still leading Noah away. Hody Jones tells Luffy he is too late to protect everything. Ryuboshi and Manboshi realize what would happen if Vander Decken IX were to die right now. Ryuboshi tells Shirahoshi to swim to one side, and Hody cuts him with Kirisame right after that. Hody says that he wanted Decken's ability to run out here. Luffy realizes what will happen if Noah falls, and tells Fukaboshi to take him to Shirahoshi. Hody stops them, but Manboshi shouts that Shirahoshi broke off to the right. As Hody swims toward her, Luffy grabs him, but due to the seawater, his strength is severely limited. Hody easily breaks away, shouting for Decken to drop dead. Noah has now moved slightly to the side of Fish-Man Island. Inside Noah, Decken is cursing Hody, saying his left hand will never forget him. He is about to say more, but he falls over, hitting his head and going unconscious. With Decken knocked out, Noah begins to fall back toward Fish-Man Island.

Hody Jones is rejoicing in Decken's defeat and Noah falling toward the island. Fukaboshi says that everything they have done to protect Noah's mission which began centuries ago, would be finished if the ship crushed the island. There is then a short flashback to Neptune explaining that Noah is not just some old wrecked ship. Centuries ago, a promise was made with a "great man" to keep the ship on the floor and wait. They have to protect the ship until that day comes. Hody then asks Luffy if he really was serious when he said he would protect everything. Luffy declares that he will smash the ship before it gets to the island. Fukaboshi tells Luffy it cannot be destroyed, and says they have to find Decken in case they can make him regain consciousness, saying they could save the island and the ship if they could redirect its course. Shirahoshi calls out to Vander Decken IX, begging him to make the ship chase her again. Manboshi tells her to keep away. Hody uses Fish-Man Karate, Umidaiko to attack Shirahoshi, but Manboshi blocks it. Luffy then grabs Hody from above and draws himself close to Hody. Hody bites him in the shoulder, and Luffy punches him away, leaving his teeth lodged in the shoulder. Luffy mentions that his Busoshoku Haki is good for blunt attacks, but is not strong enough for his body to withstand piercing as he removes the teeth. Hody realizes that Luffy is really after the air in Noah and makes a large cut in the bubble.
The air bubble around Noah is beginning to deflate. Hody chides Luffy, saying that he is just a human and he could not possibly stop Noah, let alone defeat a fish-man like him. Fukaboshi, while trying to hold the bubble together, asks Hody if he has any idea how many lives he is putting at stake. He then attacks Hody with Ultramarine, but Hody dodges at the last second and delivers a deep cut to Fukaboshi's side. Fukaboshi grabs him again, asking Hody what he is. He is driving the idea of vengeance against humans for oppressing fish-men, and yet he is taking out on Fish-Man Island. He had planned to take over and rule the island, but now he is trying to destroy it. Fukaboshi states that Hody hates humans more than anyone else, and asks what happened to him to make him hate humans so much. Hody tells him, but only his mouth is seen moving.
As Hody cuts Fukaboshi again, a voice comes out from a speaker, saying they are the person from the air tank. The voice says he has heard about everything that has transpired and is ready to help, saying everything is ready. Several Ammo Knights appear, and Fukaboshi orders them to go to the air tank and ready the massive air blast that normally goes to the island. Fukaboshi gives Luffy a baby Den Den Mushi and Shirahoshi is seen carrying him in her hand. The plan is to make a big enough air bubble to envelop Noah. This will not make it float, though. Luffy says as long as there is air around Noah it will be fine. Hody attacks Shirahoshi and Luffy with Kirisame, causing her to let go of Luffy. Luffy manages to break off the scythe blade on Hody's fin, then punches him with haki. Hody swallows an Energy Steroid, gets revitalized and declares he will get his revenge on humans no matter what. Noah is almost within range of the air tank. Fukaboshi then speaks to Luffy through the baby Den Den Mushi, saying he knows Hody's "true form".

In the Sea Forest, Den notes that something is going on on the island, as all the animals have left. Hatchan says there is no way to break Hody Jones, calling him the true terror of their boss Fisher Tiger. Around the island, an emergency broadcast warning is going out, with the Minister of the Left ordering all citizens to evacuate the island immediately. He confirms that the large object that will hit the island is Noah. People are also getting word from the plaza that Shirahoshi was the one who led Noah away and that Vander Decken IX is behind Noah's arrival.
The Minister of the Left and some soldiers approach where Neptune is resting. The minister apologizes, saying they let him down. Neptune mentions that if Noah hits the island, it would be just as it was written. The Minister of the Left tells Neptune about the evacuation and encourages the king to leave as well. Neptune says the orders are fine but he will stay and wait for the princes.
At Gyoncorde Plaza, the Minister of the Right and more troops are surveying the battle from the perimeter of the plaza, confused as to why there are so many pirates. Some bystanders get him up to speed about what happened before he arrived. The Minister of the Right orders the Neptune Army to back up the Straw Hat Pirates in the plaza, saying the country's honor would be shattered if they were backed up solely by a gang of pirates. He then orders the people watching the battle to evacuate. The people refuse, saying that since the Straw Hats are fighting for them, it would be shameful to run and leave them, so they might as well throw their lot in with the pirates and stay. The Minister of the Right tells them to do what they feel is right as he dives into the plaza to join the battle. The arrival of the army does not intimidate the New Fish-Man Pirates at all. Hammond then arrives, riding something he calls his slave tank, essentially a large rickshaw with cannons, pulled by human slaves. One of the slaves falls over exhausted and Hammond just says to leave him.
Wadatsumi breathes in and expands his stomach, calling himself "Meganyudo", becoming even larger than before. Sanji asks if that had a point, saying the kraken was still bigger than him. This angers Wadatsumi and he expands even more, crushing everything within range. Sanji is still unimpressed, and Wadatsumi is about to expand again. Jinbe asks Nico Robin to free the slaves, saying he cannot sit back and watch Hody copy the World Nobles. Ikaros Much is using a spitting attack on Franky, calling it Ikaros Wings. Franky punches him but it just goes through, as Ikaros reappears behind Franky saying that was his squid ink clone. Franky uses Franky Fireball and Ikaros narrowly dodges. Chopper and Dosun match each other with Heavy Gong and T-Shot, respectively, causing Zoro and Chopper to joke about how he looks like a monster. Just then, Hyouzou comes at Zoro, saying he will chop up anyone who laughs. Zoro intercepts the attack and cuts off several of his swords' blades perfectly at the hilts, asking for the strongest swordsman on Fish-Man Island. He then asks Hyouzou how he is going to kill him, when the octopus merman could not even kill Zoro's boredom.

Gyoncorde Plaza is a site of carnage and chaos now that the royal guards have joined the battle. Robin is doing as Jinbe asked of her and is freeing the slaves. Hammond manages to capture her in one of his Trawl Nets. He pulls the net back, but Robin creates a replica of her torso on Hammond's back. Robin then appears at his feet, and the two Robins begin contorting Hammond's body until they break his back. The ex-slaves begin fighting against the fish-men who enslaved them.
The scene changes to Brook, who realizes he has lost track of Zeo. Zeo is on the ground, slithering toward Brook. However, Zeo says loudly the name of his technique, allowing Brook to hear his voice, and the skeleton immediately thrusts his sword in the direction the voice came from, stabbing Zeo just below the neck. Zeo plays it off as a technique to destroy weapons, in order to damage the tip of Brook's sword, but even Brook does not believe him and knows he got stabbed. Zeo throws his chain and catches Brook around the neck, taking his head off. As his head falls, he remembers tapping into the true powers of the Yomi Yomi no Mi during his training. He learned of a powerful energy that allows his soul to stay in this world, despite having died once already, and how he has gained control of his very soul.
While Zeo is celebrating his victory, Brook remembers that it is the power of soul that is keeping him alive, and reattaches his head to his body while thinking this, stunning Zeo. Brook tells him that his attacks will not harm bone. He then takes out his sword, saying it was sharpened by the Longarm Tribe, calling it Soul Solid, saying its slashes bring forth the cold of the frigid underworld.
Usopp is telling Daruma not to do something. Daruma tells Usopp he will leave his friends as scraps on the sea floor. He then somehow lights himself on fire and flies at Usopp using a technique called "Hi-Daruma Cutter". Usopp shoots at Daruma but misses. Daruma mocks him for being weak and only being able to shoot dud shots. Usopp simply tells him he is finishing his traps and that Daruma will be taken down in three moves. Daruma says he is lying, and Usopp admits that he used to lie a lot, but adds that he cannot do that anymore, as he now has it within himself to back up his claims.
As the battle rages on, the Minister of the Left receives a call on a baby Den Den Mushi from the border defense. The border defense informs the minister that Noah is once again on a collision course for the island. The Minister of the Left tells the person to tell the whole island, using the nationwide broadcast. They make the announcement and people start fleeing. Nami is shocked to see Noah coming back, and Jinbe wonders if Shirahoshi and Luffy are safe. The man from the Air Tank then talks to Luffy, and their conversation is picked up on other channels. Bits of a conversation between Luffy and Shirahoshi are heard. All over the island, people are surprised at what they are hearing. Luffy is attempting to do something to stop Noah. Then Fukaboshi's voice is heard through broadcast system. He tells Luffy what Hody Jones really is.
The scene changes to outside the island, where Fukaboshi tells Luffy, as well as the rest of the island, that Hody is a monster born from circumstance. The New Fish-Man Pirates are a group that thrive on hatred and resentment. They hate in order to forget the pain of those who came before them. They also hate that the anger toward humans may one day fade away. Fukaboshi asks the people to trust the pirates for the sake of the island's safety. There is then a flashback to when Fukaboshi asked Hody what happened to him to make him hate humans so much. The answer that Hody had only been seen mouthing earlier was a single word, "nothing". Hody goes on to say that the fish-men were chosen by heaven to hand down judgment on humanity. The chapter ends with Fukaboshi saying that the New Fish-Man Pirates' hatred lacks personal experience and will. They are just empty beings with no substance what so ever.

The whole island is in a panic as the evacuation continues and the impending arrival of Noah looms ever closer. People are confused by what Fukaboshi is saying about Hody. Outside the island, Hody is laughing hysterically as he chases Luffy and Shirahoshi, his muscles continuing to expand. Shirahoshi remarks he looks even scarier than before. Hody then has a flashback.
In the Fish-Man District, a fish-man is preaching in the street about how humans are an inferior species that is running rampant and threatening fish-menkind. A very young Hody Jones listens to this and seems to take it to heart. The scene changes to a fish-man talking about someone blowing up a slave shop on the surface. A memorial wreath is in front of a large picture of the fish-man in question. People are standing around it, saying that he died, but took eight humans with him and caused widespread disaster on the surface. Hody comments that it serves the humans right, and Ikaros Much praises the man, saying he wants to be a hero too. The scene changes to another time in the Fish-Man District, where someone is saying Arlong sank a human pirate ship. Arlong is talking about how fish-men were chosen by heaven to get rid of the trash that is humanity. The humans feared this, so they decided to persecute the fish-men. In the end the humans won because of their superior numbers.
Later, Hatchan is telling Hody, Shyarly, and some other children about a human friend he has on the surface, Silvers Rayleigh, and speaking highly of him. Hody turns and leaves, saying Hatchan's story makes him want to vomit. Hody then watches some fish-men at a rally of some kind, saying their day of vengeance will soon come. In the next scene someone is talking about the recent death of Fisher Tiger. Zeo comments that Tiger wasn't the chosen one either. The New Fish-Man Pirate officers are then seen wearing black leather masks, leading a group of people holding torches. They approach a man's home. The man had donated blood to a human, and that would not be tolerated. They burned his house to the ground and strangled the man in front of his children.
The scene changes to Hody, now a member of the army, talking to the officers. He was saying that everyone from the royal family on down has lost their minds and yielded to humans. Ikaros asks if Hody heard about Jinbe joining the Shichibukai. Hody says that Arlong is the only true pirate left. In the next scene, someone cries out that the main island is in a panic, saying that Otohime was assassinated by a human (not knowing that Hody was the one who actually committed the murder and framed the human for the crime). People became angry at the royal family for not doing anything. Hody and the officers are then seen toasting beer saying the shameless have been judged and that it is the natural order for those who yield to humans to die. Hody then puts a bag on the table, saying heaven has given them power. The officers are shocked at what they see. Hody asks Zeo if he can mass produce them, and Zeo says he will give it a try. They are next seen with the New Fish-Man Pirates jolly roger, saying they will dedicate their lives to killing humans.
The flashback ends. Hody tells Luffy he has given up his life this vengeance. In the air tank, the guards are taking aim at Noah through a crosshair. They fire the bubble. Fukaboshi is then seen realizing that he has failed. They have cast off the emotions of fish-men, exiling them to the Fish-Man District, ignoring the grudge that was slowly growing among them. They were focusing too much on progress. He then remembers his mother saying people should not pass on their hate to their children, but he realizes that has already happened. People must first fight within themselves. He then declares that Otohime was killed by Fish-Man Island's grudge. The regrets of the dead should stay with the dead. A grudge is something people make to feed on others, and the grudge of the Fish-Man District has been fed by their hatred for humanity. By the time anyone noticed, it had grown too big to contain. He then tells Luffy that they do not need the past, and asks him to bring everything back to zero, to purge the old ghosts living in the shadows. The guards in the air tank are celebrating, as the bubble has successfully surrounded Noah. He asks Luffy to bring the island back to zero.
Hody tells Fukaboshi he can talk all he wants, but hatred is eternal. Luffy tells Fukaboshi through the baby Den Den Mushi to let him take care of this, and he can take a seat and relax. He tells Fukaboshi, as well as everyone on the island through the intercom, that from the moment they entered the plaza they decided they would not let anyone touch the island and to leave everything to them; adding that they are friends after all, which bring tears of happiness into Fukaboshi's eyes. The residents suddenly stop running. The Minister of the Right looks up and wonders if the Straw Hats are the kind of humans they had been doubting. Touched by Luffy's words, some of the residents decided to stay on the island until the end of the battle. The guards tell Luffy that Noah has air in it. Luffy tells Shirahoshi to stay by his side and he will not let her get hurt. Luffy pulls back his arm, hardening his fist with Busoshoku Haki as Hody charges at him. He then hits Hody with a Gear Second Gomu Gomu no Red Hawk, an incendiary attack so powerful it causes a fiery explosion to erupt from out of Hody's back.

Hody is blasted away by Red Hawk's impact. He is thrown through the bubble and onto Noah. He climbs out of the wood with water flowing out. Luffy follows him onto the ship and is relieved to have air to breathe. Luffy readies a Gear 3rd attack as the guards in the air tank and the people on the island look on. Luffy reminded one fish-man of when he was a child and Whitebeard befriended Neptune and declared the island his territory. There is then a flashback to when Whitebeard first appeared and declared the island under his control. The man is asked if he really believes that Luffy is like Whitebeard. The man said he hates humans but does not know what to think since a human is now defending the country. Shyarly looks up at the sky nervously, remembering her vision.
Back on Noah, Hody is getting back up, telling Luffy that he knows his fangs did more damage than Luffy is letting on. Hody launches large amounts of water in the shape of sharks at Luffy, but he dodges and then finishes Hody. The soldiers in the air tank rejoice in Luffy's victory but lose communication with Luffy moments after. The last thing they heard was that Luffy is planning to destroy Noah. They realize that if Luffy does not do anything about Vander Decken IX, he will have no other way to stop it. The soldiers inform the island that Luffy is currently on the ship right above the island. Shirahoshi is worried about Luffy, as one of his wounds is opening up. Luffy then starts pulverizing the bridge section of Noah. People watching are wondering if Noah was destroyed. The soldiers also announce that Hody has been defeated by Luffy as well.
Upon hearing the news, pirates in Gyoncorde Plaza begin to despair. One of them begins to run: Zeo gets annoyed by this and throws his chain at him, catching him around the neck and strangling him. He throws his chain at another pirate who tried to argue. Zeo tells the pirates to die and let their deaths curse the humans. Their grudge will never fade as long as it gets passed on. The pirates think the officers have gone crazy. Dosun comes down with his hammer on one of the pirates, saying they are only crazy because the humans made them that way. Children watching the fighting are frightening and wonder if all humans are really that scary. One of the adults watching tries to contradict them, but Shyarly cuts him off. She tells the children to look into the plaza and the skies above. The people fighting the pirates from the Fish-Man District are humans. Then one of the kids asks what Brook is. Shyarly tells them she is not so sure about some of them, but regardless they need to look with their own eyes. Zeo is still killing pirates who are trying to escape, saying their deaths will serve as reminders of the grudge. He is just about to attack more of his own men when Brook intercepts the attack. The pirates are actually grateful to Brook for saving them. Brook tells him that after death the only thing a person leaves behind is bones. Franky comments that Brook has gotten a lot more persuasive. Brook says the people he hates most are those who waste lives. Zeo tells him the Straw Hats' lives will be wasted when Noah falls. Brook tells Zeo that Luffy is the one who will become Pirate King, and if they believe that then there is nothing that could frighten them. Brook then says he must finish what he came to do here.
Elsewhere, Hyouzou is disoriented and somewhat frightened about what to do since he has no swords to use. Franky tells Ikaros Much that he is ready to unveil a huge new attack that will finish their fight in one blow. Wadatsumi is asking Sanji if he is surprised by his size. Sanji says that that should be enough but quickly corrects himself and tells Wadatsumi that he is really shocked. Sanji then tells Jinbe that they are ready for their plan and Jinbe agrees (shown clearly to be them preparing to use the massive puffer fish to block the fall of Noah). People are screaming now about a monster. Usopp and Daruma look over in surprise and Usopp realizes that that monster is Chopper in Monster Point. He tells Chopper that nothing has happened yet that is worth going crazy over. Chopper then laughs and tells Usopp he is fine.

Usopp is shocked that Chopper can control his transformation. Chopper explains that by eating a single Rumble Ball, he can fight in this form for three minutes. Usopp says that this form is now an asset, which causes Chopper to act embarrassed in his transformed state - an action which Usopp says is scary. Dosun tells Chopper he will still knock him into the ocean no matter how big he gets. Daruma gets mad that Usopp would be so rude as to stop in the middle of their fight to talk to someone else. As Daruma flies at Usopp, several flowers come out of the ground and move towards him. Usopp explains they are called Humandrakes, and they hide in the ground and attack anyone heard above them. The flowers beat Daruma to the ground, but he somehow gets thrown into the air away from them. Usopp reveals another plant, Trampolia, a large flower that launches anything that gets near it. Usopp tells Daruma there is nowhere left for him to run and he is completely exposed.
The scene changes to Franky and Ikaros Much. Ikaros reveals that he had a spear on his head that can pierce anything. He then uses Light Strike Usubon no Yari, preparing to attack. Franky tells Ikaros he should just give up as his attacks will be useless. Elsewhere, Zoro walks away from Hyouzou, saying he cannot cut anyone who has no fighting spirit, calling him a frog. Hyouzou grins and then lunges at Zoro with eight new swords. Meanwhile, Sanji is still standing on Wadatsumi's face, and the giant fish-man tells him that if he were to roll into the plaza right now, every one of Sanji's friends would be crushed. Jinbe appears to be getting ready to attack as the scene switches over to Brook, who is apparently humming carefree. Zeo has drawn a circle around himself and tells Brook he will be crushed to bits if he enters it. Zeo then hears humming behind him and Brook appears, asking to be excused as he has already entered the circle and cut him. Before Zeo can do anything, Brook's cut takes effect as he unleashes a new move called Glancing Song Blizzard Cut. A single cut now runs from Zeo's waist to the top of his head with the afflicted area apparently having been frozen. Brook then says that cut is the first line and even blood freezes in the winds of Hell. He also says he hopes that wind lifts some skirts up too.
The scene goes back to Usopp and Daruma. Usopp has launched a Pop Green that takes the shape of a giant wolf. Daruma says he will just bite through it. Usopp tells him that would be a bad idea since the bulb on the tip of its nose emits a very powerful shockwave that has a three meters diameter. Daruma is then hit with the shockwave known as Impact Wolf. In the Dosun and Chopper fight, Dosun swings his hammer around, getting ready to launch Chopper into the sea with Papara Hammer. Chopper then uses Kokutei Palme. The attack shatters Dosun's hammer and sends him flying, much to the shock of the pirates watching. Ikaros gets ready to launch his piercing attack. Franky then cups his hands one over the other in a similar pose to Coup De Vent, and launches the Franky Radical Beam. Usopp and Chopper watch it with stars in their eyes, while Nami and Robin stare at it seemingly unimpressed. Ikaros comes out of the attack completely blackened and defeated.
Jinbe prepares to use a Fish-Man Karate technique by surrounding his right hand in water. He then hits Wadatsumi with Buraikan. The attack enters on one side of Wadatsumi and explodes out of the other side. Wadatsumi begins rolling away, but as he cannot hold his breath any longer, the air he took in is released and he blasts himself away. Sanji is ready for this, and follows Wadatsumi into the sky. Sanji then takes a moment to prepare by thinking back to the torture he had to go through the last two years, before catching completely on fire. He then kicks Wadatsumi in the stomach with Hell Memories, a fire-attack so powerful it completely chars Wadatsumi. As Wadatsumi falls back to the ground, Sanji says that when preparing blowfish, one must take care to remove the poisonous parts. Finally, Hyouzou attacks Zoro with swords dripping with poison. As he leaps at Zoro, he tells him that he is Fish-Man Island's number one Hachitoryu user and Zoro should not forget that. Zoro slices through him using Rengoku Onigiri, saying he was sorry but he mistook Hyouzou for a "frog at the bottom of a well" - a Japanese proverb for someone ignorant of the real world. With that, the pirates realize that all of the officers have been defeated.

The residents are amazed that the Straw Hats were able to defeat all the top members of the New Fish-Man Pirates. Everyone then runs out of the way as Wadatsumi falls from the sky. Back on the ground Jinbe is not surprised by the results of the battle, Sanji and Zoro get into an argument, Chopper and Usopp admire Sanji and Franky respectively, Franky feels inferior to Chopper's monster form, Robin chastises Franky's General Franky, and Brook asks Nami to put on a miniskirt, much to her annoyance. All the citizens are starting to relax until they remember Noah is about to crash down on them.
They beg Luffy to do something and save them. Luffy goes into third gear and begins to smash Noah as fast as he can. The citizens stand their ground and put their trust in Luffy. Fukaboshi and Neptune are sorry to have to destroy the ship, but lives must come first and Neptune apologizes to Joy Boy. As Luffy continues his barrage on the ship, Shirahoshi begs him to stop and blocks him. Luffy says the island will be destroyed if she does not get out of the way, but she tells him the ship has already stopped as they become surround by Sea Kings holding the chains from Noah in their mouths, much to Luffy's shock.
At this point Luffy's wounds begin to open up, but he says it is okay as long as the ship stopped and everyone is safe. He then faints and falls back down to Noah. The Sea Kings begin to talk (only Shirahoshi can hear and talk to them) about how amazing the humans were and if they came only a bit later Fish-Man Island would have been saved, but Noah would have been destroyed. Shirahoshi says she did not do anything to call them there and the Sea Kings tell her that they were guided there by her strong feelings to help Luffy.
The royal guards tell everyone on Fish-Man Island that the Sea Kings stopped the ship before it could be completely destroyed and that Fish-Man Island is saved. Luffy lands on Noah and everyone begins to celebrate.

The Sea Kings are talking to Shirahoshi. They tell her that they have been waiting for her for a long time. They explain that Noah was made to be pulled by Sea Kings, which they were told a long time ago. They explain that once every few hundred years their queen is born in mermaid form for some unknown reason. The Ammo Knights in the air tank are watching what is happening and reporting it to the people on the island. They see that the Sea Kings are protecting Noah so that Luffy does not destroy it. The guards speculate that maybe Noah is important to them. Fukaboshi and his brothers are watching and listening as well, amazed that their sister can talk to Sea Kings. Neptune then declares that the power which has the potential to destroy the world has been awakened.
The Sea Kings gently lower Noah so that the bubble around it gets absorbed into the island's bubble. One of them advises Shirahoshi to grab Luffy, as it is not safe for him to be on the seafloor. Shirahoshi quickly goes to grab him. The Sea Kings then begin to tow Noah away from the island. While they travel, one of them thought Luffy could hear their voices when they were communicating with Shirahoshi. At first the others doubt it, but then they remember back to when another human, Gol D. Roger, also heard them. There is a brief flashback to Roger asking Silvers Rayleigh if he heard a voice just then. Rayleigh says he could not hear anything. Roger then calls out, asking who is talking below the waves. The Sea Kings discuss whether or not Noah could be repaired as they place it down next to the Sea Forest, where Camie, Den, and Hatchan are incredibly frightened to see them. They agree that it can be fixed, but they themselves cannot do it. They leave, saying they will return when the promised time comes.
At Ryugu Palace, the Minister of the Left is called by the soldiers. It turns out that all of the kidnapped mermaids have been found inside the castle and are perfectly fine, aside from still being a little dazed from what happened, reporting that they can clearly remember their kidnapper's appearance. On the flipside, all of the treasure stored in the palace is gone, including the National Treasure, the Tamatebako. The Minister of the Left comments to Neptune that someone was waiting for him to be absent from the palace. Neptune tells him not to bother and to leave whoever stole the treasure alone, saying everything is fine if that is all they lost. He then tells the minister to inform the people that the mermaids are safe, the Straw Hat Pirates are innocent, and that they made a mistake. At Gyoncorde Plaza, everyone is happy to hear that the Straw Hats have been vindicated for a crime they did not commit.
The lower-subordinates of the New Fish-Man Pirates try to escape, only to have their path blocked by Jinbe. The fish-man pirates argued that they followed Hody out of fear and the former human slaves state that they did not have anything to do with starting the civil war. Jinbe responds by telling them no one has said they were heading for death row but must wait for Neptune's decision and he will shoot down anyone who tries to escape. At the Thousand Sunny, Usopp asks Chopper if he is alright. He responds that he is fine, but using Monster Point leaves his body completely drained for two to three hours. He is now lying completely immobile, with his head resting in Robin's lap, much to Sanji's jealousy. Chopper says he can still treat people and asks if anyone has any wounds. Just then, the princes come down into the plaza, carrying the unconscious bodies of Hody Jones and Vander Decken IX. They bind the two pirates in chains, saying they will never be free again, and that the people of the island can relax.
Everyone is commenting on what a monster Hody is when they hear crying. Shirahoshi comes in carrying Luffy, in tears since she cannot stop Luffy's bleeding and asks for help. Chopper yells for someone to get a tourniquet out of his backpack, and Robin places him face down on the ground to do so. She then holds Chopper up by his cheeks saying she will move his body for him. As Shirahoshi watches, Chopper tells her that he stopped the bleeding, but Luffy needs a blood transfusion. He then asks if anyone in the crew has F-type blood. Franky tells him that Luffy is the only one in the crew with that blood type and suggests asking someone else in the plaza. Several of the spectators are hesitant to say their blood type and Chopper remembers the old law in place in the kingdom that forbids cross-species transfusions. Shirahoshi asks if her blood will work since even though it was a different type, it is still red. Chopper tells her he appreciates the thought. Everyone is surprised then when Jinbe steps forward, saying he has F-type blood and they can use as much as they need. When Chopper tries to bring up the law, Jinbe simply responds that he is a pirate. Everyone cheers, but the Minister of the Left is shocked by it. Neptune asks him what is wrong with it, saying that law is another "curse" the country has.
A narration takes over, saying that in spite of pain, and the pain that draws blood, the blood of prejudice will be cleansed with the blood of war. And in an instant, it is all washed away, revealing the path onward to the sun. After the transfusion, Luffy, with his eyes still closed, says Jinbe's name. Everyone is overjoyed to see he has regained consciousness. Fukaboshi tearfully tells his mother that they have gone back to zero. Luffy then asks Jinbe to join his crew.

The captive human pirates are celebrating their release from Hody's bonds. One of them calls out that they owe a debt to the Straw Hat Pirates while others declare they will be Pirate King and go to the New World. The Minister of the Right asks Neptune what would happen if their grudge against Hody extend to the fish-men. Neptune tells him that is different matter. He tells him Fish-Man Island was originally tourist destination for pirates, so they have no need to stay on the island. Neptune then addresses the remaining New Fish-Man Pirates. They beg for their lives, saying they had no idea Hody killed Otohime or that how crazy he was. Neptune then declares they will live in the main area of the island, much to their surprise. The people living on the island, say that if they allow the pirates to live on the island, the children will be too frightened to go outside. Neptune clarified, that they would be living on the island under the surveillance of his army, doing hard labor where they can flex their muscles to atone for their crimes. Neptune then declares the Fish-Man District officially condemned. A narration takes over, saying the darkness of Fish-Man Island has been brought to the light due to Otohime's true assassin. But Hody Jones' invasion plan was stopped, oddly enough, by pirates who were just passing by. Neptune asks where Luffy went. Fukaboshi tells him he ran away.
The scene changes to the Straw Hats, who are flying above the island on the Thousand Sunny, still toting its bubble balloon. Shirahoshi is following along side the ship, and asks why they left in such a hurry. Zoro is mad at himself for fighting in that big of an open area. He tells Shirahoshi if they had stayed any longer, the people would have lifted them up like heroes, shivering at the thought. Zoro tells Shirahoshi that heroes have to share their alcohol, something which he does not want to do. Nami is appalled to hear Zoro reciting the same reason Luffy told Jinbe. Looking over her shoulder, Nami sees Luffy trying to convince Jinbe to join the crew. Jinbe replies that he cannot join, but is very happy to be asked. He tells them that he has some business that he has been putting off for a long time. After he has taken care of it, he promises he will come back to them and asked them to promise to invite him again, should they still see him fit to join. Sanji tells Luffy not to back Jinbe into a corner. Robin remarks that he has taken a liking to the crew. And Franky remarks that of course they would wait for a man who captivated Luffy as much as Jinbe did. Zoro then asks if they should head to the New World now. Shirahoshi is upset by their departure and asks them to stay so she can thank them all. Sanji uses this opportunity to propose staying at the Mermaid Cafe for a whole week. Usopp slaps him, saying there is only one reason Sanji would go there, but he does agree with him.
An Ammo Knight calls out to them, and then informs Neptune via baby Den Den Mushi that they caught up to the Straw Hats' ship. Through the Den Den Mushi, Neptune tells Luffy he wants to pick up where he left off with the banquet he initially promised. Luffy agrees, and tells Neptune he will get Hatchan and Camie as well.
The scene changes briefly to the Fish-Man District, where all the buildings have been wrapped in yellow tape. It then goes to Ryugu Palace, where Hody, his officers, and Vander Decken IX are all in a prison cell, still unconscious. At the main entrance to the island, guards are telling Surume to carry Wadatsumi to the far ends of the earth, telling the giant fish-man that they do not have a cell that can hold him, and that he is banished from the island. In Coral Hill, people are preparing food to bring to the palace banquet. They are carrying large racks of Sea King meat, boxes of seaweed cakes and other sweets, and alcohol by the cartload, enough to bathe in, as one fish-man put it.
At the palace, the Straw Hats and their guests are being carried on two large flounders to the banquet hall, a completely inundated room, which makes some of the Straw Hats nervous. Below them on the floor packed with soldiers, guards cheer and say the heroes have arrived. Luffy tells not to call them heroes as he is going to eat all the meat. Shirahoshi points out a stage in the front of the room to Luffy, and they notice someone standing on it. The woman on stage is introduced as Maria Napole, a singer called the diva of the ocean floor and the pride of the island. Maria Napole begins to sing, and her voice completely entrances Nami and Usopp, who feel as if they could melt from hearing it. Brook gets excited, as he notices Maria Napole's accompaniment, a jazz quintet. The music starts up, and then it is Sanji's turn to be in awe, as the Mermaid Cafe dancers are introduced. More mermaids come in carrying trays of food that they take to the Straw Hats and the rest of the people in attendance. Everyone is singing, dancing, cheering, and enjoying the festivities. Pappag is dancing with the Medaka Mermaid Quintuplets. Luffy and Jinbe are eating and laughing with two other mermaids. Zoro, Franky, and Hatchan toast gourds of alcohol. Sanji turns to stone in the arms of two mermaids, while another one grabs Brook and starts kissing him on the cheek. Luffy is then seen having a toast with Usopp, Neptune, Shirahoshi, Camie, Jinbe, and the Minister of the Right. All the soldiers raise their glasses high. Robin is seen laughing and drinking with the Minister of the Left. Brook is playing his guitar on stage with Maria Napole. Nami is seen celebrating her victory against Fukaboshi in a drinking contest, while Ryuboshi and Manboshi dance together.
Robin is then seen standing just outside the banquet hall, when Neptune, a bit tipsy from drinking, stumbles out. He asks Robin what she wanted to talk to him about. Robin apologizes, saying she thought they would be able to be alone. Neptune, thinking she was coming on to him, starts telling Robin he could never betray the love he has for his wife, dead though she may be. Before he can go on, Robin cuts him off, asking who Joy Boy is. Neptune drops his gourd in surprise. Robin goes on to tell him that she read the poneglyph in the Sea Forest, and then asks Neptune who he was and what he was apologizing for. Neptune, instantly sobering up, is surprised Robin can read poneglyphs. Robin explains she is from Ohara and Neptune does not have to tell her anything he does not want to. Neptune says he will tell her what he knows.
Neptune explains that Joy Boy was a person from the surface who lived during the Void Century. His message was for the Mermaid Princess living on the island at that time. It is an apology for breaking his side of a promise he made with the island. Neptune tells her he does not know the details of the promise, only that some day someone is supposed to come and carry out the promise made by Joy Boy. He explains it is a legend passed down in the royal family. Neptune says that their promise to Joy Boy was to watch Noah and keep it safe. Only when the promised time comes will Noah's purpose be known. Robin tells Neptune that she heard that Noah, after the events in and above Gyoncorde Plaza, was carried to the Sea Forest by Sea Kings. Robin asks Neptune if Joy Boy could control Sea Kings. Neptune tells her that ability belongs to the Mermaid Princess from then and now. Robin then concludes that Shirahoshi has the ability, confirming her theory. Neptune says she is right, and today that ability was fully awakened, which is not a good thing. Robin agrees. She then tells Neptune about the poneglyph she read while in Skypiea two years ago. It gave the location of one of the ancient weapons, and said it was located on Fish-Man Island. She then asks Neptune if the Mermaid Princess from Joy Boy's time went by another name. Neptune starts to understand. Robin tells him that Shirahoshi, by having the same ability, also inherited the same name as that princess. Her other name is the ancient weapon, Poseidon.

Robin and Neptune continue their conversation, and Robin mentions that there are three ancient weapons: Pluton, Uranus, and Poseidon. Then Neptune warned her to not tell anyone about Shirahoshi in fear that the government and pirates would hunt her. Caribou is eavesdropping on their conversation and goes to kidnap Shirahoshi. Meanwhile, Jinbe tells Luffy and Straw Hat Pirates about the major events that took place during the timeskip. The first is Aokiji and Akainu's duel to decide who will become the new fleet admiral, which Akainu won after ten days of fighting. As a result, Aokiji left the Marines. The second is Blackbeard, who conquered all the Whitebeard Pirates' territory and claimed the seat of Emperor in the process and began his hunt of Devil Fruit users to obtain their powers. Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji then leave the conversation to check on Shirahoshi.
The trio find Caribou in the process of kidnapping Shirahoshi and Luffy proceeds to kick him from the tower. After hearing from Neptune that Caribou stole the treasure, he tells Nami that he will give it to them as a reward for saving his country if they can get it back. After Nami finds out that Luffy had kicked Caribou out of the tower, she sends Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji after him so she can have the treasure.
Neptune is then told by one of his soldiers that something has happened to Hody and his crew. When he reaches their prison cell, he finds Hody Jones and the New Fish-Man Pirates have become very old and are planning on taking their revenge against the Straw Hats. The Minister of the Right deduces that the Energy Steroids, which came from inside the Tamatebako (national treasure of Fish-Man Island), are the cause and Hody confesses that he stole them. Neptune then tells them to forget about their intention of seeking revenge against humans considering the state that they are in and says he will have to re-think their punishment.
Meanwhile, a soldier comes to the Minister of the Left, reporting that two of Big Mom's men have come to the island to collect her monthly candy payment. Unfortunately, because the candy factory was destroyed by the New Fish-Man Pirates and the remaining sweets were sent to the party, there is not enough candy for Big Mom this month. The Minister of the Left is then worried about Big Mom's reaction, saying that she is "a monster who would destroy a country for the sake of sweets".

After the banquet ends, the Straw Hats are excited to hear they will be allowed to keep all of the stolen treasure. Franky says it will make them tycoon pirates in no time. When Chopper suggests searching for Caribou along with Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji, Usopp tells him he just learned that Caribou is worth over 200,000,000. On the island, the group finds Caribou, and Zoro is disappointed that Luffy's punch was all that was needed to defeat him. The three of them are excited to see how much treasure spilled out of Caribou's body. They load it into bags and Luffy asks Zoro which way the town was, prompting Sanji to decide to go the other way. Luffy tells them they need a flying fish.
The scene changes to the Candy Factory, where the Minister of the Left is discussing their problem with the monthly candy payment with a figure offscreen. The man, a lion named Pekoms, reminds the minister that the deal was that they would make candy for Big Mom and in return the island would not be destroyed. He then asks if the Minister knew what kind of person Big Mom is, saying anyone who angers her is doomed. The group of people gathered off to one side all think to themselves how cute Pekoms looks when he is threatening. At the same time, Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji walk by and notice the crowd. They go over and Luffy says greets everyone there. Luffy mentions that the best part of the banquet was the sweets made at the factory. As the crowd tries to tell Luffy to be quiet, Pekoms asks who they are. He flips through a book and recognizes Luffy and asks him what he meant when he was talking about sweets. Luffy tells him he had just eaten a lot of them at the banquet. This causes Pekoms to become angry toward the Minister of the Left, who tries to tell him there is an explanation as Luffy realizes that the lion can talk. Another figure then tells Pekoms that threatening people left and right will not accomplish anything and that they need to ship the candy out by tomorrow in order to have it arrive in time for the Tea Party. The man, a longleg wearing an eggshell and using a teacup and saucer for a hat, introduces himself as Baron Tamago.
As Tamago stands up, he asks them if they ate the candy that was made at the factory, Zoro thinks he is a compass, and Luffy tells him that they did eat it and would like more. Tamago then explains that the island belongs to the Emperor, Charlotte Linlin, and the flag on the factory shows the island is under her protection. Luffy concludes from this that she is a good person and says he wants to meet her. Tamago tells him it is strictly business. The island gives her ten tons of candy a month and she gives them her flag, adding that Linlin loves candy more than anything.
The scene changes to the New World, to a place called Whole Cake Island where someone remarks that Big Mom seems excited. She replies that she is looking forward to the tea party that takes place in a few days and is looking forward to the candy from Fish-Man Island. She then asks the person if he is excited, to which they say yes. Big Mom then tells him to continue his excitement in her stomach, and promptly eats him. A three-eyed girl sits uncomfortably in a chair as Big Mom chews. A subordinate, Bobbin, comes in, and Big Mom asks him how the operation went. She is happy when Bobbin tells her the whole thing went up in flames, saying the baked sweets from that country were the best and it must have smelled delicious since it was burned to the ground. Bobbin asks if she has any snacks as Linlin goes on to say that anyone who does not give her sweets must be killed, and that she likes dishonesty as much as she likes bad candy. Bobbin then remembers to tell her that Fish-Man Island might not be able to come up with their payment for the month. The shot changes to show an enormous woman leaning forward in a chair, surprised at what Bobbin just said. Bobbin explains that he just received a call from Pekoms and asks her if they should torch that island as well. Big Mom then orders a call be placed through to the island at once.
Back at the Candy Factory, Tamago explains that the candy from Fish-Man Island is one of his captain's favorites and they can wait until tomorrow to collect the candy. The Minister of the Left explains again that the cooking equipment in the factory was destroyed and they will need two weeks to get everything up and running again, which the baron tells him is impossible. Sanji then gets indignant and asks why he cannot just wait. Zoro adds that despite being an Emperor, their captain does not have a lot of balls. Tamago clarifies that Big Mom is a woman, and therefore had no balls to begin with. Sanji, while imagining with no degree of accuracy what the woman looks like, asks what would happen if the sweets are late. Tamago replies that the treaty would be dissolved and the Big Mom Pirates would destroy the island. Luffy is furious that someone would destroy an island over candy, especially since he and his crew just saved it. A Den Den Mushi rings. Pekoms realizes it must be their captain, since he just reported the situation. Everyone nearby, including Pekoms and Tamago, are afraid to find out who is making the call. So Luffy answers it. Luffy asks if he is speaking to Big Mom. The voice on the other end is confused, since she does not recognize Luffy's voice as belonging to one of her subordinates. Luffy introduces himself and declares he will be Pirate King. Linlin recognizes his name and remembers he is Garp's grandson as well as his involvement in the war two years ago. Luffy tells her there is no more candy. He then goes on to say that he was the one who ate it all. Charlotte realizes Luffy is trying to cover for the island by placing the blame solely on himself. Luffy tells her he has a bunch of treasure and he will give her all of it in exchange for the candy. Big Mom asks how he expects her to eat treasure.
Tamago then gets an idea and asks Luffy if all of the offered treasure was in the three bags. He then takes the receiver and asks his captain to calm down. He then tells her that two days ago, Eustass Kid sank two of their ships. They suffered heavy damages and aren't exactly well off financially. He suggests she take the treasure as collateral and allow the island another two weeks to rebuild and make more candy. Big Mom is furious that Tamago would suggest such a compromise. She then adds that she is now interested in the guy who is taking a stand against her and as he wishes, she will change the target from Fish-Man Island to him. Luffy tells her he has to get even with her, adding that it is too dangerous to leave her in charge of the island. Luffy then declares that he will beat her and make Fish-Man Island his territory, much to the irritation of Big Mom.

Jinbe and Neptune are talking in Ryugu Palace. Neptune asks how the Sun Pirates are doing under Big Mom's jurisdiction. Jinbe says that she is not the most reasonable boss but they have been free to do what they want. Neptune comments how it must be hard for Jinbe to take orders from someone who wasn't Fisher Tiger. Jinbe replies that he is not picky about who his boss is and that it is a good strategy to serve an Emperor to ensure his crew's safety. Neptune is surprised since he thought Jinbe did it for the sake of Fish-Man Island because thanks to Jinbe, the island was kept safe under Big Mom's name. Jinbe remarks that it is just a coincidence and that he and his crew should be protecting the island, but cannot since they are wanted pirates. Jinbe then announces that he will cut off ties with Big Mom. Neptune concludes that this is because Jinbe wants to join the Straw Hats. Jinbe adds that verbal contracts are a lot harder to get out of than written agreements and that there is a chance Big Mom will direct her anger at the island. Neptune tells him he is taking too much responsibility, adding that the army just gained another seventy thousand soldiers from the Fish-Man District and he has found another flag he wants to borrow: the Straw Hats', an idea which Jinbe likes.
The Minister of the Right comes in out of breath, saying he remembered something important about the treasure given to the Straw Hats. They must return the tamatebako. There is a bomb in it and it is rigged to explode upon opening. The minister did this after it was stolen ten years ago as a safety precaution. Neptune agrees that they will ask them to return it. A guard enters and announces the Straw Hats have returned. Nami, Neptune, and the Minister of the Right are then shocked to hear that Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji gave the treasure to Big Mom. Luffy tells them she was going to destroy the island, that she is crazy, and that he would fight her, stunning everyone except Shirahoshi. Jinbe realizes that now he must leave Big Mom before things get even worse. He suggests that the Straw Hats must not irritate her more than they have. The Minister of the Right whispers to Neptune that Big Mom might take the bomb as an act of war. Nami then sympathizes with Luffy, saying he stood his ground the way any man would. She then hits Luffy, Zoro and Sanji for giving away all of the treasure. Luffy then declares they should go to the New World.
Outside the Candy Factory, Caribou has woken up and realizes that all the treasure he stole is gone. He says that if he brings back the princess and the treasure, then he could get on a certain person's good side. He then sees a crowd of people by Tamago and Pekoms, who are carrying three large bags. Caribou realizes they must have the treasure. He charges at them, demanding the treasure back. Pekoms recognizes him and looks him up in a book. A gatling gun extends from Caribou's stomach and he shoots at Pekoms. Pekoms is knocked over but when the dust clears, he is seen hidden inside a tortoise shell. Caribou realizes he must be a Zoan. He flies at Pekoms with a scythe. Pekoms blocks the attack with a single Haki-imbued punch, shattering the scythe and sending Caribou flying. Pekoms afterwards, mentions that the downfall of a Logia is its own pride of invincibility. Pekoms and Tamago then leave.
The scene changes to New World, near the Red Line. Marines are fighting multiple pirate ships coming from the sea. Someone shouts that Captain Tashigi is in trouble. Two lovestruck Marines try to embrace her to protect her. She jumps out of the way and toward an incoming cannon ball. Using her sword, she manages to redirect the cannon ball, which blows up away from the ship. The two soldiers cheer, but she tells them to stop messing around. She berates them, not knowing she is yelling at the ship's mast. She asks how they could be joking around right now. She then accuses them of teasing her for being a woman. Smoker tells her to be quiet, since he is in the middle of an interrogation. Smoker turns toward his prisoners, reiterating that pirates were being enslaved by Hody Jones, citing that as the explanation why no rookies came through Fish-Man Island in the last month. But now, they are coming out of the sea practically non-stop. The captured pirates then go on to say that there was a pirate who stopped Hody's war, ultimately freeing them. However, he will not tell Smoker the name. One guy shuts him up, saying that they are dealing with G-5, listing rumors of their torture methods. Other Marines ask Smoker if they could have the prisoners now. Panicking, the pirate blurts out that it was Luffy who saved them. Smoker tells them that he already knew that.

Camie tells Shyarly that Luffy and his crew are going to leave the island. Shyarly tells her to go see them off. Before she leaves, Camie notices the broken crystal ball on the floor. Shyarly tells Camie that she is through with foreseeing the future for good, and she could not be happier if she was wrong. Camie realizes her boss is more fearful than anyone, since her prediction may come in a year or more, and there is no way to know if she is wrong. Shyarly asks Camie to forgive her for suspecting her friends of wrongdoing.
The scene changes and Shirahoshi is crying as she holds Luffy in her hand, asking him to stay for another week, then a month, and then a year. After seeing Shirahoshi, Sanji wishes he could stay for a year. Brook says that he will call his new single "Life on Fish-Man Island is a Dream". Zoro tells Sanji he should stay on the island. Sanji says he will teach him not to cross the person who cooks his food. Over to one side, the Minister of the Right whispers to Neptune about the tamatebako. Neptune tells him to look at the pirates. Usopp and Chopper are in despair, saying they are going to the New World to die. Chopper wonders if Big Mom would forgive them if they gave her all their treasure from here on out. Neptune and the minister realize they could not tell them at this point. Neptune does add that it was ten years since the bomb was placed in there, it may have become a dud. The Minister of the Right says he does have a point, the castle is damp, and Big Mom might not be the one to open the box. Robin wonders what they are whispering about.
The Minister of the Left then gives Nami a new Log Pose, with three needles on it instead of one. Shirahoshi lowers Luffy so he can see the new Log Pose. Nami looks at the one on her wrist. She wonders why it is moving, since she thought it had already recorded the next island. The minister tells her that each island in the New World as well as Fish-Man Island take only half a day to record. The islands can differ in current, climate, and magnetic fields, which until now have been the only thing they could rely on. However, there are also islands that lose their magnetic fields. The minister points out that only one needle on the Log Pose is shaking, while the other two are completely still. Each needle records the waves of a different island, meaning the navigator must choose which way to go, and the wrong decision could mean certain death. Master navigators can choose the safest routes by observing subtle differences in the needles' movements. The stronger the needle's movement the more dangerous the island. Nami finds this new navigation method deeply disturbing. Suddenly, Luffy wraps his neck around Nami and notices the center needle shaking. He decides to go to that island, as it looks like fun. Nami and Usopp are devastated that Luffy overheard the conversation. Nami tries to strangle him, saying she is the one who chooses the route, but Luffy says he is the captain. Usopp and Chopper beg Luffy to see sense.
Franky then declares that they are ready to go and he even learned how to float up. Hatchan tells them he is staying behind to help repair the factory. Usopp and Chopper have become more enthusiastic, saying they are going to war in Hell. Sanji and the mermaids say their goodbyes, and Sanji calls them the All Blue of his heart. Fukaboshi thanks Luffy. Manboshi declares that they will be leading the strongest army in the ocean next they meet, and Ryuboshi says their reputation will be even more renowned. Luffy and Jinbe simply exchange silent looks. As the crew leaves, the people call from the shore that they now like humans, as well as robots, raccoons, and skeletons. Shirahoshi then swims up and grabs the side of the ship, making everyone fall over. She tells him she will not be a crybaby next time they meet and wants to go on another walk with Luffy, only this time she wants to go to the surface and see a real forest with them. She holds out her pinky and Luffy wraps his own around hers, symbolizing the promise. The other Straw Hats, save for Zoro and Franky, all touch their own pinky fingers to hers. She then waves as they leave, splashing water on her face and holding her pinky finger. Neptune tells his son not to forget their debt. A child then asks his father for a straw hat so he could play heroes with it. His father then tells him that they are only available on the surface. Jinbe overhears the conversation and tells them he will send a merchant ship to get the hats.
On the Thousand Sunny, Sanji is reveling in his memories, but Nami tell them there is no time to rest, as they have to go back through the dark sea again. Attached to the foremost mast of the ship is a string of floating blocks. Franky tells Usopp they are called Kuuigosu, and extremely buoyant wood that he is using to raise the ship. Their speed of ascent can be controlled by how many are let out. Luffy is standing on the bow, and Zoro asks him if something is wrong. Luffy says they will be in the same ocean as Shanks when they reach the surface and he is looking forward to seeing him. He then remembers the day Shanks gave him his straw hat. He also remembers the words of encouragement given to him by Ace, Jinbe, and Rayleigh. Finally, he remembers the conversation he had with Koby about the New World. Everyone gets fired up while Robin simply laughs. The chapter ends with Luffy shouting they are going to the New World.

Nami is taking a shower while the Thousand Sunny is ascending to the surface of the New World, having put the ship on a current that will bring them to the surface.
Usopp and Luffy are on the deck, where Usopp is fixing up a rope, saying a weak rope knot would be useless against a giant fish. The rest of the crew is on deck with them, intending to catch a deep sea fish for Sanji to cook for them once they reach the surface. Usopp hooks a fish with the rope and hook he had just made, but as soon as the giant fish is hooked it is eaten by another, much bigger fish. Just as the crew react, that fish is eaten by another, even bigger fish. Zoro decides to resolve the matter himself, using his new technique, 360 Pound Cannon, a stronger version of 36 Pound Cannon to kill the biggest fish.
Usopp then notices that the ship appears to no longer be moving forward, but instead be sinking before spotting something that resembles a giant sea snake. Robin appears greatly shocked, telling the crew that it is not a sea snake, but is White Strom, a gigantic white whirlpool that resembles a dragon which appears without warning on the sea floor. She then goes on to explain that ships caught in the White Strom are generally found days later, in waters incredibly far away, with no crew left on board. Nami runs out of the bathroom to take command, and tells them they need to cut the fish loose at once as it is getting caught in the whirlpool and dragging them in. Her next idea is to use Coup De Burst, but Franky tells her it is way too late, as the fish is almost entirely in the whirlpool now. Everyone appears resigned to entering the whirlpool, as they are all seen clinging on tightly to various parts of the Thousand Sunny.
The ship spins along the inside of White Strom, before suddenly stopping, as they have hit a gigantic object which appears to be blocking the whirlpool itself. The object is then shown to be one of a huge pod of island whales. Upon asking Nami for further orders, she replies they are fine where they are.
Nami tells the crew that the movement of the school of whales has created a new current, so they need to open the sails and follow this current, as to go against it would be even more dangerous. The sails are then opened and they catch the current the whales are creating. Nami says that traveling like this is just as good as riding the rising current, and before long the Straw Hats can see the surface of the sea in front of them.
The whales all emerge onto the surface of the New World, and Sunny is propelled out of the water. Chopper notes the fact the sea around them appears red, which Sanji describes as a sea of flames, and Zoro describes it as looking like the entrance to hell. Luffy, upon seeing all these conditions, merely describes the sea as perfect.

The Thousand Sunny is thrown into the air by a giant tidal wave as a volcano erupts. The crew spots an island, but Nami tells the crew that none of the compass needles are pointing to that island, which is strange even for the New World. Luffy says he does not care and exclaims that he wants to go to the island. Nami tells him there is no way to get any closer since it is blocked by a sea of fire.
Luffy discovers that the Den Den Mushi is crying and ringing. Luffy is about to pick up the receiver when Robin tells him to stop. She tells him there is a 50/50 chance that the call is a trap that the Marines use to tape phones on ships to find their location. Luffy picks up the receiver and the man on the other end says that his crew keeps getting killed, one after another by the samurai. He adds he does not care who comes, as long as they help. The island he is calling from is called Punk Hazard. Before he can say anymore, the sound of slashing is heard and the person screams out in pain, saying he was stabbed, ending the transmission. Robin reminds him it could still be a trap, and Franky asks if it could be the island behind the fire. Robin says it is the only possible island in transmitting range for a baby Den Den Mushi to be picked up. Luffy decides they will save the man.
Elsewhere, a Marine is very annoyed after hearing about Punk Hazard. Tashigi asks Smoker if he also heard the transmission. Smoker is annoyed because he had presumed Luffy would choose Raijin Island after leaving Fish-Man Island and it had never occurred to him that Luffy would bypass all three. Tashigi reminds Smoker that Punk Hazard is closed off and deserted after the incident that took place there four years ago, finding it strange there would be people there. Smoker agrees that it does seem strange, but it is the only thing they have to work with. Smoker tells the crew that they are setting out.
Usopp, Robin, and Zoro are going with Luffy to the island as decided by straw drawing. Nami uses her Clima-Tact to make a milky road so the Mini Merry II can travel over the flames. When the ship gets to Punk Hazard, the pirates pull the Mini Merry II up onto the shore. In front of them is a giant fence with various warning signs and hazard stripes around the perimeter adorned with the emblems of the World Government and Marines, as well as a third emblem, a skull with horns; Zoro cuts through part of the door and they walk through. Robin comments that the island looks like it was not always on fire, and wonders if there was a natural disaster recently. It looks like a former World Government base, with the buildings completely melted. The group finds an enormous skull, bigger than even a giant's. Something growls from behind them. The crew is stunned, as they cannot believe that what they are seeing really exists. The crew is staring up into the eyes of a fire-breathing dragon, who then asks the crew who they are.

The chapter begins with Luffy, Zoro, Robin, and Usopp facing the dragon. Luffy exclaims that the dragon just talked, but Usopp says that he is hearing things, while running away. As they remain intrigued about the dragon, it lets loose a burst of fire, which they all narrowly evade. Usopp trembles in fear while Luffy and Zoro get excited about facing the dragon. Luffy uses Jet Pistol, which does not seem to effect the dragon much, and Luffy realizes its hide is really hard. The dragon then slams Luffy down with its tail, with quite a lot of force. Zoro then charges towards the dragon, but gets distracted when the dragon talks again and it stretches its head out to bite, which Zoro narrowly evades. Zoro then uses a technique called 'Ultra-Hunt' which shakes the dragon up a bit, but the dragon recovers quickly and tries to bite Zoro again, which he blocks but proclaims that the dragon is very resilient and strong. An enraged Luffy then breaks out from the rubble and kicks the dragon, taking it by surprise and hurting it. Zoro tells Luffy that he heard it speak, while Robin and Usopp also witnessed it speaking.
The dragon then takes off and uses another fire breath attack, while asking if they are allies of "that" Shichibukai. The Straw Hats take cover under some rocks and walls, Usopp gets scared even more while Robin questions if it has a grudge against the Shichibukai. Luffy and Zoro are found making a "plan", with Luffy jumping up to knock the dragon down. When he grabs hold of it, Luffy realizes it is hot and the dragon tries to knock him off with another burst of fire. Luffy stumbles and rolls around on the dragon's body, while exclaiming that it is hot, and finds a pair of legs sticking out of the dragon. The dragon then tries to bite Luffy, but accidentally bites its wing, making it yelp in pain and fall. Zoro then starts to charge forward and yells at Usopp, who uses Trampolia, and jumps up, using a technique called Iai Shi ShiShi SonSon, and cuts the dragon's head off. While they fall down, Luffy starts laughing and says that the dragon looks yummy. Zoro then says that they could have a barbecue with the flames on the island.
Back at the Thousand Sunny, Sanji finishes making a meal for Nami and calls for her, but finds out everybody is asleep with some gas floating around. Sanji, realizing that it is not fog, tries to contact Luffy by reaching for the Den Den Mushi, but is put to sleep himself for breathing in too much of the gas. A group of peculiar individuals emerge in hazmat suits with the letters PH on them and capture the crew, except for Brook. They mention a master that they are taking their captives to.
Back on the island, the group is trying to pull a person out of the dragon's hide. Successfully pulling the "person" out, they find out it is only a pair of legs, and think they have killed him. The legs are revealed to be alive, making the whole group gawk at it. Robin points out that there was no trace of an upper body while Usopp states that he is quite tall. While the crew remained baffled, the legs start to attack them but promptly run away after the unknown Shichibukai. The chapter ends with Luffy calling to it to join his crew, making Usopp tell him to stop it.

Luffy is having fun with the disembodied legs, sticking the waist to his own and calling himself a centaur. He tells the legs that he ate dragon meat, so he has dragon powers. Robin tells Luffy that what he is doing is simply vulgar. Before Luffy can do anything else, the legs lift Luffy up and piledrive him into the ground. Usopp tells Luffy that there must be an upper body in trouble somewhere. Luffy tells Usopp he has no imagination. He is about to name the legs when they piledrive him again. Zoro calls to the others from atop a building. He points and the crew realizes they are standing right next to a lake, beyond which is a mountain range covered in ice. Usopp and Robin realize that the distress call they received was coming from the cold side of the island. Luffy is excited by this and wants to eat shaved ice. Usopp, while shouting at Zoro (who, along with Robin, wants to explore the island with Luffy), senses something strange on a nearby chimney. He looks over to see a smiling winged woman staring at him, who then flies off like a bird. Usopp tells the others about what he saw but is not sure about it himself.
Elsewhere, Franky wakes up to the sound of Sanji kicking the wall and asks what is wrong. Nami tells him it should be obvious and Chopper tells him they are locked up. The crew tries to remember the last thing they did, and Nami realizes that whoever took them must have hit them with sleeping gas. Sanji confirms this. Franky then wonders where Brook is, and Chopper asks why someone would kidnap a skeleton. From one corner, a voice asks them if they like riddles. The group looks around for the source of the voice, and Chopper jumps back in shock. The voice is from a mouth that is one of eight pieces of a disassembled man's head. The man asks if they could put him back together. Each member gives it a shot, and they finally get pretty close, having only mixed up the hair and chin. Chopper asks him why he is alive, and the head says he does not know. He was cut by someone he does not know. This reminds Nami of Buggy, which she attributed to as being weird. She asks if he knows where they are. The head becomes indignant, saying that Nami should behave like a proper lady. Nami picks him up by the cheek, saying he should be nicer to the people who put him back together. The head says he will sympathize with her, seeing as she has been stripped of all she had. Nami tells him that she has not been stripped and is wearing fashionable clothing. The head is shocked that something so revealing would be so mundane. Even still, he tells Nami he likes it, and receives a beating from her and a kick into the wall from Sanji.
The head asks who the Straw Hats are, having heard they were taken from their ship. After hearing they are pirates, his attitude changes, as he cannot stand pirates. He mentions that the land is frozen, which confuses the crew. Nami explains that it is possible, since she saw winter clouds from the ship, and so it must be half ice and half fire. She says they need to leave, and she and Sanji jump out of the way as Franky blasts a hole in the wall with his Radical Beam, making a hole in the wall. Sanji tells the head he should escape with them, fixing his hair and chin properly, and revealing that he is a samurai from the Wano Country. Just then they hear voices and realize they need to hurry. Sanji tells him about the call from the guy who was cut by samurai. The head says he would not pointlessly kill. He came to the island to save his son. The crew runs, taking the head with them. Sanji kicks through a door and they find themselves in a room full of gigantic children.

The giant children are frightened by the Straw Hats, but the boys forget their fear the instant they see Franky, being amazed that he is a robot. Sanji asks if they are in some kind of nurturing facility. Before he can get an answer, the samurai asks if they know of a boy named Momonosuke. The sight of a talking head frightens the children and they run away. Franky realizes that people are chasing them, so the Straw Hats run after the kids.
One of the boys runs along with them and asks Franky if they came from outside of the island and they have a ship. The instant Franky says yes, the boy stops and asks him to save them. Chopper tells Franky they need to take the kids with them. Franky tells him that since they do not even know where to go, dragging the children with them will be even less productive, but he cannot help but have a foreboding feeling of tragedy in his heart. Nami stays back and declares that they are going to save the kids. Sanji argues, saying that they do not know any of the preceding circumstances as to why they are here and they cannot run a charity business for them. Nami says she realizes this, but cannot turn her back on crying children who ask for her help. The children are still impeding the guards' advancement, so one of them decides to ignore collateral damage and to shoot anyway. The gun frightens the children, but before the man can fire it, Sanji kicks him in the face with Diable Jambe: Collier Strike. Nami is overjoyed to see Sanji helping, as Chopper and Franky attack the others with Kung Fu Point and Strong Right, respectively. The children are excited by Franky's punch. The remaining guards are irritated that the pirates aren't running anymore. Sanji comments that Nami is lovely when she shows compassion toward children and he is falling in love all over again. The samurai is amazed by the crew's act of selflessness. Sanji tells Chopper to go ahead with Nami. Sanji then orders the children to go with the nice lady and kung fu tanuki, and he and Franky will do something about the guys pursuing them. Sanji tells them he is only doing it to answer Nami's wishes, and hates it even more that they are going to be protected by her.
Meanwhile more guards are investigating the room where the Straw Hats here kept. A floating liquid mass is amazed that the crew was able to destroy a door that was supposed to be indestructible. He goes on to say that no one but Vegapunk should have the technology to build a laser, but the burn marks make it look like a Pacifista blew the door away. The mass asks if they found the escapees yet, and a soldier responds that they should be getting cornered in the Biscuits Room right now. Another soldier comes and tells the liquid mass that a G-5 ship has appeared on the coast. The liquid tells the soldier to get rid of it without killing anyone, as a bunch of dead Marines would be too much of a hassle.
In the skies over Punk Hazard the bird woman Usopp saw earlier is asking if the intruders were found. A person on the other end of a Den Den Mushi says they are bringing them down now. The other Straw Hats have found another Den Den Mushi and are talking to Brook on it. He was still on the ship, which was brought around to the cold side of the island. Brook tells them that he was knocked out but remembers they were wearing gas masks. Robin then deduces that the ship was hit with sleeping gas. Robin asks Brook if he sees a building anywhere. Brook sees a large building built into a mountain. Usopp tells Brook they will hurry over and he should wait for them. Zoro asks if their enemy is from the government. Usopp tells him he would be surprised if their enemy is even human, since all they have seen are a dragon, a bird woman, and now a centaur that Luffy is getting chummy with. Luffy then knocks out the centaur with a kick to the head. As the centaur goes down, he said he was careless to think Luffy was one of them. Luffy asks why he cannot be, since they had just become friends. Another centaur tries to attack Luffy from behind, but Robin stops it with Cien Fleur Gentian. The group finds it odd that the centaurs' lower halves are those of a leopard and a giraffe, since they are supposed to be horses. Usopp finds a Den Den Mushi on one of the and notices it has CC written on it. He realizes they must be part of an organization. He then adds that they really have to go through the ice lands to rescue the others. Robin hopes aloud that they weren't shot full of holes when they were captured. Zoro remarks that they should have gone ashore from the other side. Luffy argues if they did that they would not have been able to eat a dragon or meet Leggy, which is the name he gave the disembodied legs. Robin wonders if they sell winter clothes along the way to the icy part of the island.
On the northwest shore of the island the G-5 ship is having trouble advancing, as gas is leaking out. Due to a failed chemical weapons experiment by Vegapunk four years ago, the island became a wasteland. One Marine comments that no one should be able to set foot on the island since there is so much gas but Smoker corrects him, saying that this much gas is unnatural. Two years ago, the island was a normal wasteland without any fire or ice and most of the poisonous materials had vanished. It was because of that that Aokiji and Akainu chose Punk Hazard as the spot for their battle to determine who would become fleet admiral.

As a volcano erupts, the Marines observe the fiery and chilly landscape around them and comment how being on this island gives them the feeling as though that Akainu and Aokiji are glaring at them. They shoot down a block of ice with their cannons and are astounded to see, as Smoker has gathered, there was a river route behind the ice. Smoker merely states that if they have had paid attention to the sea currents the river would've been obvious. He continues to say it is more of a problem if the ice was natural or man-made, which prompts his crew to once more comment that there would be no possible method of anyone living on the gas-ridden island. Tashigi says that the voice on the signal definitely mentioned this island which makes the crew laugh and state there is no way since even a Den Den Mushi would die. She orders them to shoot the next ice block if they have time to laugh. The crew realizes that there is another giant ice block and promptly works to shooting at it.
On the burning half of Punk Hazard, Luffy and Usopp have met with a very violent wind. Robin remarks that it is due to the temperature difference of the island which meets in the center of the lake they are currently standing at the edge of. As they wonder how they are going to cross the lake which is half frozen and half burning, Zoro mentions that it might actually be a quite good temperature to swim since he worked up a sweat. Usopp yells at him not to be ridiculous and Luffy agrees since he and Robin cannot swim. This has Robin think of an image of her and Luffy being carried across the backs of Usopp and Zoro, respectively. Usopp yells at Luffy, saying they are not going to swim, carrying them across. He takes charge and implements his special "Green Star: Boaty Banana" and "Uchiwa Grass" attacks. A boat that looks like a banana appears much to the delight of Luffy and Zoro, while Usopp explains that the Uchiwa grass will be their oars. Robin comments how wonderful his seeds are, which starts Usopp off on a long winded boast about his dangerous past on Boin Archipelago, during which the rest of the members board the boat. Luffy sits at the front of the boat (on the stem of the banana) and says for them to go to the "Land of the Shaved Ice". Usopp gets mad at him for not rowing while Zoro comments on the boiling water while Robin observes them smiling.
While rowing through a strong head wind, they hear a voice from the shore behind them telling them to wait. A rock comes flying at them and Zoro recognizes the attacker as the centaur from before. Luffy immediately asks again if the centaur wanted to join his crew after all, prompting Usopp and Zoro to yell at him to stop his habit of inviting strange creatures to the crew. The centaur blows a horn and then yells out to the other side of the lake that the intruders are heading towards there and requests to the Boss to finish them off. Usopp wonders if it was the Boss that was being mentioned on the Den Den Mushi. Robin comments that something is appearing on the other side. A huge shadow with many centaur shadows is vaguely seen on the shore. As Luffy and group wonder if the huge shadow is the Boss, Usopp states that if the emergency signal was meant to reach the Boss there would not be any reason for him to want to hurt them. However, the shadows see Zoro and his katanas and mistakenly assume that he must be the samurai that has cut down their friends.
Within the former research institution of Dr. Vegapunk on the Ice lands, Nami and Chopper are currently leading the children away with them. Chopper encourages the children to run if they want to escape, which prompts Nami to comment that Chopper is in high spirits. Chopper says since Sanji left them to him, he will do his best like a man to protect them. Nami wonders where they should run to and Chopper tells her to figure that out.
Inside the institution's Biscuits Room, Franky uses his Weapons Left to knock over a bunch of enemies clad in hazard suits. They yell that he has weapons built into his body and must be the person who took down the door. They order for the poison gas to be loaded since the children were no longer in the room. Sanji kicks the mask off the speaker, saying they should take those masks off and share the gas with them. He promptly goes on a hop rampage attack as he jumps on the heads of all the enemies, destroying their gas masks and air tanks. This prevents them from releasing the gas shots and also reveals, to Sanji's surprise, that they all have horns on their heads. Sanji wonders if they are sheep. At this time for some reason, the samurai's head they bought with them also seems to be out of breath fighting. Franky asks him what he is doing and the samurai says that this guy is no easy feat. Franky is confused and the head explains it is his torso.
In front of the research institution PH-006 where the Thousand Sunny was docked, Brook encounters a torso, and asks why it does not have a head or legs, but gets no answer and gets into a duel with it. Brook explains all he wanted to do was make a few snowmen while he waits for the others but the torso strengthens his attacks using his arm power to now even jump at Brook. Brook exclaims that it is too scary and wonders if it is a ghost. While yelling that it is scary, Brook counters with his attack Aubade Coup Droit, which the torso dodges. The torso counters with the Two-Sword fighting style, which Brook ducks away from. Brook, now angry, yells at the torso and asks why he is fighting him and requests him to stop. He promptly runs away while yelling that it is scary and gross.
Inside the same research facility, one of the hazard suit wearing members reports to his master that the warship is currently breaking through the ice with their cannons and advancing towards the island. The Master, currently running through a bunch of laboratory equipment, replies that they must have some kind of conviction to keep coming this far. The member states that it is Smoker from G-5 and they will soon arrive. The liquid Master calls Smoker a "troublesome guy" and orders to hide all the ships laying at the front. The member asks how they should respond. The Master replies that no one should even be here so make sure they are not found and he will not come out either. The member realizes something while the Master does not answer his suspicions.
Smoker has reached the front of the research institution PH-006 and is calming ringing the buzzer for the door. His crew around him are amazed at the fact that there really was not any gas on the island and wonder where the gas from before came from. Smoker tells them it was probably done by someone who did not want them there. The crew says they could just shoot the door down with the cannon and tells Smoker to stop politely pressing the buzzer already. They get riled up and excited and start yelling that no one is allowed to enter this island and they will arrest them whomever they are flaunting their marine status. Suddenly the door is opened and standing there is the now-Warlord, Trafalgar Law, with a former bounty of 440,000,000. He calmly leans against the door and asks what business the White Hunter has at his vacation house. His appearance sends all of Smoker's crew running back except Smoker and Tashigi. They yell with surprise why Trafalgar Law, a Warlord, is there. They beg Smoker to leave because they do not want to be involved someone so insane, that he sent the hearts of 100 pirates to headquarters in order to become one of the Warlord. Smoker tells Law the island is off limits to even those concerned with the government, to which Law retorts that this also includes Smoker.

While running, the children are telling Nami about how they were brought to the island to be cured of diseases. They were taken from their homes, since their diseases might infect their parents, without even getting a chance to say goodbye to their families. Nami realizes that this screams of abduction. Chopper thinks their diseases are pretty serious, and Nami slaps him for not realizing the obvious truth. She then tells Chopper to give the kids checkups later, in order to know if they really were cured. They reach the end of the hall and see a door; Nami thinks it is a dead end, but Chopper breaks down the door. The room they are in now is dark and cold, making Nami wonder if they are in a freezer or outside. Nami sees a door on the other side of the room and starts running. One of the children tells Nami that the room scares her. The children explain that they went through this room when they first arrived at the facility. Nami tells them that that means it leads to an exit. The girl tells Nami to look around her, showing the room is full of frozen people. Nami and Chopper then realize in horror that the room they are in is used to store giant corpses.
Back in Biscuit's Room, Sanji "hears" Nami scream out in terror. He tells Franky they need to hurry. Franky wonders why the people they defeated have the lower bodies of goats, having only heard about them from legend. Kin'emon asks to stay in the room, since he did not see his son amongst the kids there, saying he would look for other rooms. Sanji yells at him, asking how he would move as just a head. He then asks Kin'emon to be honest, and ask them to help him look for the rest of his body. Kin'emon stubbornly declares that he will not be indebted to pirates, but on the off-chance they want to find his body, he is not complaining. Sanji is about to slam the head into the floor in a fit of rage, but Franky grabs it out of his hand, telling Sanji he lost the moment he took the head with them. Sanji throws a fit for recognizing the head's resolve, then beats it up before carrying it again.
Outside the facility, Tashigi is playing a recording of the transmission between Luffy and the person who sent the distress signal from the island for Trafalgar Law. Tashigi tells him that based on what was said in the transmission, the call was without a doubt sent from Punk Hazard. Smoker recalls Law's past encounters with Luffy, both at Sabaody after the incident with Saint Rosward and at Marineford when he was chased by Akainu. Law does not believe Smoker since the Marines are known for forging transmission signals to trap pirates. Smoker tells him it is real, and Law says they can end the conversation since he does not know anything. Smoker asks to see the inside of the facility, and Law refuses. He asks what is so bad about being at an island that was disposed of by the government. He then tells Smoker if the Straw Hats do show up, then he will take care of them, so the Marines can go. They then hear a noise from behind the door, a voice saying how scary the frozen people were, and then another voice pointing out the door. Nami, Chopper, and the children burst through the door. Nami is surprised by how cold it is, Tashigi is surprised to see the Straw Hat Pirates, and the children are overjoyed to be outside. Franky is then seen carrying two additional children on his knees. He has tank treads on his calves and several more behind him, with Sanji and the head riding on his back. Everyone (but Nami) does Franky's "SUPER" pose, stunning everyone speechless. Nami and Chopper then recognize Law from Sabaody, and ask if he was the one who locked the kids away, saying they will not give them back. Sanji recognizes Smoker and Tashigi, the latter of whom asks why there are children on the island.
Sanji orders all the children back inside, which confuses them since the Marines should be good people. Smoker asks Law why he said he was alone. Law cannot give a straight answer other than he is surprised. The Straw Hats and the children run back inside, and Tashigi gives orders to pursue them. Law stops them by using Room. He then uses Tact to lift the G-5 ship as well as some of the water around it, into the air. Law says that he cannot let them leave the island, and shouldn't have said that he was alone. Smoker orders his troops to stay back saying people like them will just be disassembled if they fight Law and pulls out his jitte ready to fight him.

The centaurs are firing on the Straw Hats in the middle of the lake. Finally, a shot hits the water, causing the boat to capsize. The boss, Brownbeard, chastises his men for not shooting at the water sooner. The Straw Hats resurface, Zoro and Usopp supporting Luffy and Robin. Zoro comments that the last shot was unexpected. Usopp blames Luffy for wanting to befriend the centaurs, and Luffy apologizes. The centaurs get ready to fire again. Zoro give Luffy to Usopp, and prepares to attack. However, he is suddenly pulled down. Usopp looks below the water and sees that there are sharks in the lake. Brownbeard explains that the lake is actually part of the ocean. The lake was originally a crater that served as the epicenter of Akainu and Aokiji's fight. The water then flowed in from a rift in the island. Usopp is lamenting Zoro getting eaten as he realizes he is about to die. Brownbeard orders his men to fire, only to have the bazookas literally blow up in their faces. Usopp is relieved to see Brook. Brook tells them he froze the gun barrels, so they could not fire properly. The centaurs are angry and charge at Brook, swords drawn. Brook counters and is too fast for them. Brownbeard looks out at the lake and sees that the sharks were defeated, and wonders where the other pirates went. Zoro then tells Brook he came at the right time, but no amount of training could make him withstand the sheer cold he is facing now. Usopp tells them it was a bad idea to go to the island dressed as they are. But Robin then says that they are in luck, saying they should be grateful to have met the centaurs.
While the Straw Hats are talking, Brownbeard recognizes them from somewhere. The centaurs are then confused as the Straw Hats start picking out targets from the crowd of centaurs. All of the centaurs are wearing warm winter coats and the Straw Hats decide to steal them. The centaurs are taken aback by this, and wonder if they are dealing with bandits. Brownbeard then recognizes Luffy as a rookie from two years ago and "Fire Fist" Ace's younger brother, "Straw Hat" Luffy, the pirate with a 400,000,000 bounty. The other centaurs are shocked by this revelation.
Outside the research facility, Trafalgar Law has now broken the Marine ship completely in half. Law realizes he cannot let the Straw Hats get away, nor the samurai with them. The samurai is telling the group to go back since Law is the one who cut him up. Law points his sword at the fleeing group, expanding the barrier to just in front of where they were running. As they pass through the barrier, Nami, Sanji, Franky, and Chopper's hearts all burst out in front of them. Law then uses Shambles. At first the pirates do not notice anything, but when Nami asks if she dropped her cigarette it becomes apparent that Law's technique caused them to switch bodies.
The Marines suggest a strategical retreat. Smoker tells them that is impossible since they do not have ships. He then reminds Law that he is under the direct government control, and they will be telling the higher-ups at Marineford, saying his title would be revoked. Law tells them he is not worried. He then uses Scan, sending a wave through the enclosed area. A pile of Den Den Mushi appears behind him. The Marines then realize that the ones they were carrying are now gone. Law tells them he will not let them report anything they have seen on this island to anyone. Smoker flies at Law, saying the Ope Ope no Mi allows the consumer to make a space they can modify at will. He attacks Law with his jitte, but Law dodges out of the way. He then brings his sword down. Smoker tells his men to stay out of the sword's range, but they cannot move out of the way in time and are cut up. Smoker tells his men to get out of the way. He then describes Law's ability as an operating room where he has complete control to operate on anything in it, owing to his epithet, "The Surgeon of Death". Tashigi then tells Law she will take him on. Smoker warns her not to, as her Haki is not strong enough. With a single cut, Law slices both Tashigi and her sword in half.

Tashigi falls to the ground after being cut and the Marines ask if she is ok. Tashigi calls not dying from a cut the worst disgrace. Tashigi tells Law to kill her next time he cuts her. Law asks if doing something so menial makes for a good swordsman. He then tells her to remember that the weak cannot choose how they die. Tashigi swipes at him but misses due to her sword being cut. Law draws his sword, saying he could cut Tashigi up more if she likes. In response to this, the Marine soldiers shoot at Law. Law uses his power to send the bullets back at them, saying he switched them with the pile of snow where they stood. Law prepares to strike Tashigi. She holds up the nub that is her sword to try and defend, but Smoker intervenes, blocking Law's sword with his jitte. Smoker then uses his ability to get behind Law while still blocking his sword. He grabs Law by the neck and slams him into the snow, pinning him. Smoker is about to drive his jitte into Law's skull. Smoker smashes his jitte into a piece of wood from one of the wrecked ships that Law had switched with his own body. Law reappears behind Smoker and slashes at him with his sword. Smoker intercepts it with his jitte. The backlash from Smoker's block causes Law to cut part of the landscape. One of the ships that was attached to the mountain starts to fall. The soldiers decide to run for it, since they are just getting in the way, grabbing Tashigi's two halves and taking her with them.
The scene changes to Luffy's group, who are in the ice lands. Luffy tells the group he just heard something and wonders if it was from Sanji's group. He then asks Brownbeard, on whose shoulders he is riding, if he really does not know where the rest of his crew is. Brownbeard tells Luffy he will not say anything. Luffy tells him to run faster. Zoro, who is riding on Brownbeard's back with the rest of the party, comments that the guy they are riding has no sense of self reflection. Usopp asks Brook why he is wearing a coat, and Brook tells him it is the feeling that counts. Robin says it would be nice if Nami and the others did not have their arms fall off from frostbite.
The scene changes to inside PH-006, where the Master is having a drink while being told about Smoker and Law's fight by a guard. The Master asks what Law is thinking, since the plan was to drive them out. The guard also tells him that the Straw Hats being held captive had escaped with the children from Biscuits Room and encountered the Marines at the front door, meaning the Marines saw the children, causing the Master to spit out his drink. He then smashes the glass in anger. If Smoker is killed here, then the higher ups at Marineford will become suspicious of the island. The harpy, named Monet, arrives and the Master asks her where she had been. She tells him that the dragon, which belonged to Vegapunk, as well as Brownbeard's centaur unit were defeated. She further explains that the pirates pulled from the ship had friends who were on the burning side of the island, that they have crossed over to the cold side of the island, and will be at the base shortly. Monet mentions that she thought they were strong, but then realized that they were the Straw Hat Pirates, showing the Master a newspaper article about them. This surprises the master.
The scene changes back to Law and Smoker's fight. The soldiers are watching the fight in disbelief while reassembling themselves, having already put Tashigi back together. The soldiers then realize the dire situation they are in. They have no ships and no means of communication. Tashigi slowly gets up, despite protest from soldiers saying she shouldn't move just yet. She remembers and repeats something Smoker told her a long time ago, about how pirates will never change. Smoker flies through debris in smoke form, charging at Law. He tells Law that he never trusted the Seven Warlords of the Sea. Law tells him that was a wise choice as he brings a piece of mountain down on him. Smoker asks Law what use he has for the island, and who is really running the operations. Smoker charges Law with a kick, which he blocks with his sword. He then reappears behind Law and thrusts his jitte at him. Law manages to bring his sword around and block at the last second. Law then asks Smoker what the Marines are scheming. He then has a rock fall between the two of them. Smoker breaks the top part of the rock off with his jitte and Law ducks to avoid being hit, saying they will have to change their location. He then uses a technique called Mes, and actually jabs through the rock to reach Smoker, leaving a square hole in the Marine's chest, while something comes out of his back. Smoker then realizes that Law just removed his heart. Law teleports Smoker's heart above his hand and catches the heart, which is held in a sort of cube, and Smoker collapses. Law walks away, saying he does not have to tell Smoker anything. He then hears a voice call out, having seen a warship. The voice then notices Law standing nearby, and Law recognizes Luffy's voice and sees him. Luffy then recognizes Law.

Luffy calls out to Law and thanks him for his help two years ago. Zoro and Robin recognize Law. Luffy cannot remember his name exactly, so he sticks to calling him "Tora-guy". Luffy wonders where Bepo is, but Law remains silent. He has a flashback to when he rescued Luffy and Jinbe, as well as their recovery on Amazon Lily. Law tells him it is good he survived, but not to thank him, as he only saved Luffy on a whim. Luffy only agrees of course because they will be rivals competing for One Piece, but remains grateful just the same, as Law was not the only one to whom he must be thankful for the last two years. Law can only stare at Luffy in silence. The rest of the crew notices a Marine lying a short distance away, as Brownbeard asks for Law's help and Law reminds Luffy that they are both pirates. Luffy laughs and says Law has a point, thanking him again.
As Luffy is running to get back onto Brownbeard's back, he is about to ask Law a question. Law simply tells him to go to the back of the research facility. He says Luffy will find what he is looking for there and that they will meet again, as they both have something they want to get back. At this moment, Tashigi notices Smoker on the ground between her and the Straw Hats and runs towards him, as do the rest of the Marines. Tashigi drops to Smoker's side and examines the hole in his chest. Luffy waves to Smoker, happy to see him after such a long time. Tashigi remembers what Smoker said about Law sending one hundred pirate hearts to the World Government. This angers her and she runs towards Law, with her sword drawn. Law calls her unrefined, and says that he hates that. He uses his ability to swap Smoker and Tashigi's minds while Zoro wonders what Law just did. As Luffy is running to get back onto Brownbeard's back, one Marine tries to shoot the Straw Hats as they are leaving, but is told not to, as they must tend to the health of their superior officers.
On the other side of the research facility, Sanji (in Nami's body) is saying that he does not care about the children or the freezing temperatures. All he wants is to take a picture of Nami's breasts while he has the chance. Nami (in Franky's body) wonders what he wants to take a picture of and tells Sanji to stop having nosebleeds in her body. The kids wonder if the pirates switched minds. Chopper (in Sanji's body) asks if the kids are all right, since he now knows how cold humans can get. The children tell "Sanji" they do not like it when he acts kind and concerned.
One of the kids falls over, and the rest stop, having gone as far as they can go in the cold while wearing so little clothing. Franky (in Chopper's body) realizes it was kind of reckless to bring all the kids along. The samurai tells them all to place an object on their heads. Sanji asks why and the samurai answers by saying "poof", and instantly everyone is wearing warm coats, shoes, and gloves. Nami asks in disbelief how the samurai did it. He explains that he ate a Devil Fruit that gives him powers akin to sorcery. Everyone is thankful, but Franky points out that he could have used his power sooner. The samurai tells them that did not want to cover Nami's "breast band".
Luffy and company arrive on Brownbeard and are happy to see their friends. Zoro wonders why Sanji seems so jolly. Usopp wonders why there are giant children next to them. Since Sanji was staring at the breasts on his current body, Nami prepares to punch him for it. However, to Luffy, it looks like Franky is about to punch Nami, and tells him to stop. The group takes shelter among the collapsed ruin of another research lab, shielding them from the cold. Nami is crying, as she foolishly punched her own body out of anger. Chopper says he will treat Sanji immediately. Nami asks what Sanji is doing to her body, and Sanji reminds her that he is in fact Chopper. Next to this, the samurai is glad to be reunited with his legs, and Luffy is crushed to have lost "Leggy". Robin comments on the surrealism of what she is watching. The children tackle Nami, asking her to shoot a laser beam.
Sanji asks permission from Nami to smoke. Nami realizes he is restraining himself and decides they need to calm down and talk. Franky makes it known he is in Chopper's body. From Sanji's body, Chopper says he will heal anyone. From Franky's body, Nami promises not to shoot any lasers. Sanji joyously introduces himself as Nami, ripping off his jacket and holding up her breasts, much to Brook and Usopp's pleasure. Nami goes in to punch herself, but is stopped by Chopper, saying she (meaning her body) will die. Nami then writes down in a journal that peeping at her body will cost 100,000 and touching it will cost 200,000. Luffy and Usopp are laughing hysterically at the whole situation, and Nami yells at them, reminding them that this is their problem too.
After things have calmed down, Usopp reviews what has happened. The head and legs are the samurai they heard about from the distress call. The distress call was supposed to go to Brownbeard from his subordinates, who were in trouble because the samurai was slashing them. The samurai tells them he was doing it to find his son, Momonosuke. After seeing how many children were inside the facility, he reasons his son must still be in there. One of the kids adds that the group here is not all of them. Zoro then adds that the true problem came after the call. The samurai cites Trafalgar Law, adding that everyone was calling him a Warlord. Luffy is stunned by this, and Robin informs Luffy he became one during the last two years.
The samurai says that before he knew it, Law had separated his body, taking his head to the facility, leaving his torso behind, and having his legs almost become dragon food. He tried to run away, but then became stuck on the dragon's head. Luffy mentioned how his lower half was cursing the Warlord, and the samurai replies that those were farts, that being his special skill. Brook then adds that he has seen his torso.
On the other side, on the cold half of the island, the Marines are taking shelter in a cave. Tashigi is apparently able to function in Smoker's body, despite it not having a heart. Smoker (in Tashigi's body) mentions seeing the mark "CC" on the ship hidden near the research facility, before the initials PH, for Punk Hazard went everywhere. Smoker continued his train of thought by assuming that Law is protecting someone and that "CC" is also initials. Smoker concludes that if the person he is thinking of is on the island, then a lot of things would start to make sense. The man he is thinking of is Dr. Vegapunk's former colleague, as well as a wanted man, whom Smoker describes as insane. He is the leading expert on weapons of mass-murder, former government scientist Caesar Clown. The chapter ends with Caesar beginning to materialize from the gaseous vapor as he and Law begin to argue.

Tashigi recalls hearing about reports of child abduction in G-5's jurisdiction. The soldiers are finding it difficult to get used to their superior officers' new appearances. Smoker tells her he does not know about any kidnappings. Tashigi begs him to button her shirt so her chest would not be exposed. Tashigi recalls getting reports of a lot of accidents, and a soldier remembers that a lot of kids die on the high seas. Tashigi remembers seeing a lot of reports about kidnappings from the G-5 communications department. By the time the stories reached the newspapers, they had been changed to accidents at sea. Tashigi starts talking about what it could possibly mean, apparently stumbling around her point. Smoker gets irritated and tells her to just say what she is thinking. Given the number of children they just saw, the kidnapping reports would be true. Smoker then realizes that the kidnapper would be on the island. If true, then the articles printed in the newspapers were fraudulent. That would further mean that someone from inside G-5 is trying to cover up the stories. The soldiers are furious at the thought of there being a traitor among them. Smoker tells them to shut up, saying that none of them are worthy of being suspected. Smoker tell them that by thinking that a perfect society exists, they overlook the enemy. Smoker tells them that since Law has his heart and is not in his own body, he cannot leave the island. He orders that a third of the soldiers steal a ship and return to G-5. Smoker tells them he will find his heart, get back in his normal body, and expose the mastermind behind the whole scheme.
In the research lab, Caesar puts down a transceiver and tells the guards present that they have permission to kill the Straw Hats, the G-5 Marines, and Kin'emon, the samurai, adding that if someone dies on the island Joker will make it look like an accident at sea. He orders the guards to capture anyone they can, and he does not mind if the ones captured get poisoned. He asks where Law is, and is told that he just left. He then reminds the guards that their enemy is worth 400,000,000, so it will not be easy. Monet interjects, saying that the other bounties range from 50-120,000,000, totaling 800,000,050. The crew suddenly became inactive two years ago, meaning the current figures might not be good indications of their threat level. Caesar comments on the harpy's diligence. One of the centaurs stumbles in from the cold. He tells Caesar that the Straw Hats took some of their coats. He also tells them they took Brownbeard, and begs Caesar to get him back. Caesar tells him not to worry about their boss, and that in the back room, there is a new medicine they just completed that will warm the body and heal wounds. The centaur is grateful, and asks that his friends be treated too.
The scene changes to the Straw Hats. Usopp has made special buttons and placed them on the foreheads of the four people not in their correct bodies. On the buttons are pictures which indicate who is in which body, making them easier to identify. Luffy is talking to Brownbeard, saying he has never heard of him. Zoro comments on how a moment ago, Brownbeard was set on keeping quiet. Brownbeard adds that Law will come save him soon. He adds that Law is different than pirates from his and Luffy's generation. Luffy does not understand, and Brownbeard explains that the "Worst Generation" refers to the eleven rookies that gathered at Sabaody, as well as Blackbeard. They are problem-children born between two eras who carry the fate of the war. After the war, these pirates invaded the New World and wreaked havoc. Any major incident involved pirates from that group. Brownbeard then goes on to say that the one who shattered his crew was Basil Hawkins. Brownbeard lost the use of his legs from that fight, so he and his crew fled, eventually arriving on Punk Hazard. He explains that Punk Hazard used to be full of lush green vegetation, teeming with life. He goes on to say that it used to be Vegapunk's experiment facility where he tested weapons and drugs. Some convicts were brought to the island, instead of prison, to be used as guinea pigs for his human experiments. Then, four years ago, one of Vegapunk's chemical weapons experiments failed, demolishing two of the three laboratories. The explosion brought about extreme heat and sent poisonous particles into the air, killing everything. The government workers abandoned the prisoner and sealed off the island before making their escape. The prisoners flocked to the only research building still standing. If they did not die, their lower bodies became useless due to a powerful nerve gas. All seemed lost. A year later, Caesar Clown came to the island. He used his ability to purify the gas, and made artificial legs for those who could not walk, whom he also made his subordinates. Brownbeard arrived on the island a year after Caesar did. There was still poisonous gas, which made him incredibly sick. Just before giving up on life, Caesar and his subordinates appeared and saved him.
Brownbeard compares Vegapunk to the Devil and Caesar to God. A few months before the Straw Hats arrived, Trafalgar Law did. Using his ability, Law gave all the disabled by the gas, living animal legs, allowing them to walk again. Nami comments on how cruel Vegapunk was while the rest of the crew applies the story to what they had seen so far, the satyrs from the lab, as well as the harpy and other centaurs. Usopp asks him about the dragon. Brownbeard tells them that the dragon was an artificial creature made by Vegapunk to guard the island. It can adapt to any environment. One of the Celestial Dragons named it at one point, but Brownbeard cannot remember what it was. He tells the crew to run if they meet it, Zoro just tells him they will, despite remembering having killed it. Brownbeard goes on to say that the island belongs to Caesar Clown and no one dares to come near it. Caesar still continues his research for the good of mankind even today, and the Straw Hats will have to submit their bodies to his experiments every now and then. He then laughs and says they (which includes himself) will not let the Straw Hats escape.
Back inside the research facility, the centaur is having trouble breathing. He is banging on a door, asking Caesar what kind of medicine he was given, begging to be let out. Caesar tells him to be a patient. He asks how the centaur is feeling. Based on the sounds he made, Caesar deduces the centaur is nauseous and coughing. Caesar asks if he has a headache, and is pleased to hear he does. He then asks if the centaur is hallucinating. The centaur tells him there is a giant snake in the room, but Caesar assures him there is not. He then comments that the experiment was not going as well as he hoped. Monet asks him if it was another failure. Caesar snaps at her to watch what she says, as his experiments do not fail. And he applies the same statement to the incident four years ago. He asks if creating a weapon that could kill an entire island is really a failed experiment. He laughs, saying he even kept all the victims under his gaze. He then tells the World Government to watch, and he will show them who the real number one scientist is.
The scene changes to the Marines, where a soldier is stunned by what Smoker just told him. The one responsible for the incident on the island was in fact Caesar Clown. Caesar made the weapon and was responsible for letting it go off accidentally. Smoker explains how he and Vegapunk were always rivaling each other. However, developing a weapon for mass murder that spreads poison gas is illegal. Caesar was caught and arrested. However, he escaped the prison ship and was never seen or heard from again. Smoker then gives the postulate that if Caesar is indeed furthering his research on the island, if he is not stopped now, then another incident like the one before will not be far away.

Franky is trying to get used to being in Chopper's body. He manages to change into Guard Point, and comments on how unstable Chopper's body is with all of its different forms. Chopper responds that he is used to it. The children roll Franky around in the snow, while Luffy rides on top of him. Sanji learns from Brook that the samurai has left to find his torso, and becomes worried for his safety as he has no means of defending himself with just his head and legs, while Sanji held himself responsible for his safety when he was just a head. Luffy grants Sanji and Brook permission to search for the samurai. When Brook asks Sanji to let him see his (Nami's) panties, and Sanji becomes excited at the prospect of taking pictures of Nami's body, Nami becomes furious and convinces Zoro to go along as well, reasoning that Sanji and Zoro's inevitable fighting rivalry will distract Sanji from doing perverted things with her body. Sure enough, within moments Sanji and Zoro are arguing, Zoro being angry that he had to come along because of Sanji's perverse new attitude, and Sanji angry at Zoro for not understanding how ecstatic the body switching situation has made him. Brook is pummeled by Nami as punishment, and to deter him from wanting to see her panties.
The rest of the Straw Hats discuss their next course of action. Nami's first priority is restoring everyone back to their original bodies, as she dislikes being in Franky's body, as she considers him to be a pervert. Franky (who has now transformed into Chopper's Brain Point) takes Nami's insult as a compliment, making a typical Franky face in Chopper's body that disgusts Robin. Franky notes that whatever they do, the children will be a burden.
Chopper finishes conducting tests on the children. Immediately after, the largest child, Sind, falls to the ground in pain. Luffy asks Chopper to heal him, but one by one the rest of the giant children fall over, holding their heads in their hands. Nami asks Chopper whether the children were really sick, to which he replies that they were not. He asks Sind whether there is something he wants, and what, if any, kinds of activities they do around that time every day. Sind, still in agony, tells him that every day all of the children would get examined and be given candy. Chopper is confused about the candy, and the other children say that the candy is strange, and tastes good. Sind says that he feels really happy when he eats it, and is convinced that it will stop the pain. Chopper, having learned the truth about the children, becomes furious. He yells at the chained up Brownbeard that the children aren't actually sick, as they had previously been told. Brownbeard maintains that although he does not know much of what goes on inside, their benefactor, Master, is a loving scientist who rescued the children and gave them free medicine. According to him, the fact that the children are in pain and have not received their daily medicine proves that they are ill, but Chopper responds with the results of his analysis-there is a tiny but sufficient quantity of a drug known as NHC10 in each of their bodies. The drug is a powerful stimulant, the use of which is tightly restricted throughout the world due to the danger it comes with and its addictive properties. Chopper learned about the drug during his time with Dr. Kureha, in which he learned that proper use of it in medicine requires using only a very tiny amount, in order to prevent addiction. Chopper concludes that the children have been given small amounts of the drug every day for a long period of time, so that the addiction forces them to remain within the research facility. Chopper demands to know from Brownbeard what his master's purpose is for the children, but Brownbeard is angry at him, believing that Chopper is merely insulting his savior.
Luffy suggests going to the research facility to find candy to stop the withdrawal symptoms, but Chopper says not to, as the candy is the means by which the drugs are delivered. Sind begs Luffy for candy, who refuses, trusting Chopper's judgment as the crew's doctor. Sind lowers his hands from his face, revealing bloodshot eyes, a runny nose and saliva dripping from his mouth, which frightens the other children. He goes berserk at Luffy for not getting the candy when he originally said he would, launching him into a nearby fallen pillar. Robin is amazed at Sind's physical strength. Usopp, while surprised, comments that this must be the strength of a giant child, but the other children reveal that none of them are actually giants; all of them were normal size when they first came to the island, and have grown more and more the longer they have remained on the island. One of the children believes that the growing must be the 'sickness' they were told they had, but Chopper disagrees, instead concluding that the rapid growth has come from experiments that have increased the levels of their pituitary hormone.
As the rest of the children gradually enter withdrawal as well, Luffy prepares to subdue them, but in order to ensure no harm comes to them Usopp instead successfully puts them to sleep with his new Sleeping Star attack. Having discovered that the children really were kidnapped, Chopper wants to save the children and return them to their parents, but Franky and Robin note that first they have to find the real culprit behind the experiments: Master. Chopper and Nami stay behind to look after the children, although Chopper expresses a desire for revenge against Master, and Nami's reasoning for staying behind appears to be fear (according to Usopp). Luffy has the largest children restrained with chains, to prevent them rampaging again. Luffy, Usopp, Robin, and Franky prepare to go to the research facility to meet Master, though Franky mentions the fact that at some point they will have to find Trafalgar Law in order to restore their bodies. Luffy seems to think it unnecessary, as he is enjoying the hijinks that have occurred.
The scene changes to a road to the mountain behind the research facility. Zoro, Sanji, and Brook are all lying in the snow. Zoro and Sanji are face-down, while Brook is face-up and spread-eagled, with his drawn sword sticking out of the snow near his head. The shot is expanded to reveal that the trio is in the middle of a trail of two sets of gigantic footprints, each barefoot and several times larger than a human body.
In the research facility, Caesar Clown, Trafalgar Law, and Monet are sitting around a table. Caesar holds Smoker's heart in his hand, while Law looks on silently, with a displeased look in his eyes and a frown. Caesar is in good spirits thanks to the capture of Smoker's heart, and says he has already sent soldiers to the Marines and that he knows what the outcome of that will be. Monet asks what happened to Straw Hat, and Caesar explains that, having taken Monet's warning about the Straw Hats' possible increase in strength seriously, he sent two powerful people after him: The Hitmen of the Snowy Mountain, the "Yeti Cool Brothers". The two of them are seen from behind in silhouette. They are enormous figures, each with a rifle on their back.

The Yeti Cool Brothers radio in to Caesar, saying they successfully killed Nami, Zoro, and Brook, and ask that they be collected. In the research facility, Clown is talking to Monet having just received the news that some of the Straw Hats were killed. Monet is surprised that they died so easily, after reading all the newspapers that were written about them, and mentions that Law had encountered them twice before. Clown pulls out a gun, points it at Law, and asks him if he called the Straw Hats to the island. Law reiterates that he did not even know they were on the island until they ran into him at the front door. Law adds that if the place gets found out it would be bad for him as well.
Clown remembers when Law first came to the island. He and Law were talking indoors, and Law said that he wanted to stay on the island since it could not be caught by a Log Pose. It also remains of government research that he seemed to be interested in. All he asked for was free roam of the island, and that neither of them ask the other too personal questions. Law also made it very clear that no one was to know that he is on the island, not even Caesar Clown's employer: "Joker". Clown says that he sees no harm in trusting Law, and asks Monet if she agrees. She looks up from copying notes about Law and asks if he could heal the prisoners on the island who were paralyzed by the poisonous gas, ending the flashback. Clown tells Law that if he calls the kids back he will do even better and he doubts someone who sucked up to the government in order to become a Shichibukai would make things too difficult for them. Clown turns to leave, but Law asks what he meant by the kids coming back. Clown explains about the drugged candy, holding up a piece to show Law. Law comments that Clown's nastiness reminds him of someone else. Monet asks about a fight as Law turns to leave. Law tells them to call him if they need anything. Clown comments that people who think too much can be difficult.
At the remains of one of the research labs, there is an explosion. Nami gets scared and Chopper realizes they are under attack. He is worried about the children, as the roof might collapse on them. Chopper peeks out and tells Nami he cannot see who is attacking them. Outside, Luffy and the others hear the explosion and notice the huge footprints in the snow. Luffy senses two huge animal-like beings near Nami and Chopper. Brownbeard hears the explosion and gets hopeful that someone is coming to save him. He then realizes that it must be the Yeti Cool Brothers. Nami asks him what he's talking about. He tells her that no one has seen them, but for the right price they will kill anyone they are asked to. They are hairy twenty five year olds named Rock and Scotch. Just then, one of the brothers appears from behind Nami and Chopper, frightening the daylights out of them. The yeti has his gun pointed at Brownbeard, saying he is on Clown's kill list. Brownbeard asks if the yeti pointing the gun at him is Rock, and he replies that he is Scotch. He tells Scotch there must have been a mistake and he is assigned to take out the Straw Hats. Scotch plays a recording of Clown calling Brownbeard a useless idiot and giving the order to kill him. Brownbeard is crushed by the fact that the man he believed so much in betrayed him. His last thought is of when Clown once called him a good leader. Scotch then shoots him and Brownbeard goes up in flames. Rock then warns Scotch not to shoot too much or else the roof will collapse on the kids. Luffy then comes back, angry at what he just saw. The yetis shoot at him but miss. He comes at them with a flying kick, but they suddenly vanish. Luffy then rebounds off the facility and lands in a snow drift. Chopper runs up, saying that they took Nami.
The Yeti Cool Brothers are seen somewhere else, one of them holding Nami in his hand. Franky's body was the only one that they were ordered to bring back alive, since it had Vegapunk's laser. In the back of the research facility, Law is going out. A guard warns him about the Marines. Law tells him that he does not care and that he can go anywhere he wants, cutting the guard up before leaving.

Luffy is surprised to learn that Brownbeard was killed. Chopper explains that the Yeti Cool Brothers were ordered to take out Brownbeard as well as reclaim the children. Luffy is stunned to hear that someone would do this to an ally. Chopper adds that they kidnapped Nami. Luffy starts to leave, telling the others to stay with the kids. Franky asks to go with Luffy, since it was his body that was taken. Franky then asks Chopper for some Rumble Balls since he could not fight in his current form. Chopper tells him that he will give him one, but he is afraid Franky will not be able to control the form. He tells Franky that Rumble Ball only works for three minutes and it drains the body for a short while afterward. Before he can go on, Franky ate the Rumble Ball and transformed. Luffy tries to get Franky's attention, but Franky flies into an uncontrollable rage and tries to attack Luffy, exactly what Chopper was afraid of. The rest of the crew watch in stunned silence as Luffy runs off, followed by the out of control Franky. They realize that Franky will only get in the way now.
The scene changes to Caesar Clown's lab, where Clown is looking at Franky's wanted poster. He says he does not know how but Franky somehow got a hold of one of Vegapunk's lasers. The plan is to dissect the body and extract the laser, and then dispose of the body in the furnace. A subordinate asks about what they should do about Smoker and the other Marines. Clown tells the guard that he has plans for them, and threatens him under penalty of death if they disrupt their refuge.
On the mountain, Nami is yelling at the two yetis for kidnapping her. She was talking about how her cuteness and nice body would make people want to kidnap her, but that Luffy will not let it happen, showing that she is chained up and hanging from some old beams. The brothers are confused by Nami calling herself cute in Franky's body and assume the cyborg is an okama. One of the yetis tells her to shut up. He comments that the weapons in Franky's body are kind of cool, but the reward they will get from Clown for a job well done would be even cooler. They then comment on how cold it is, causing Nami to yell at them to put on some clothes. Rock compares their rifles to cannons, adding that they also have poison gas. He goes on to say that since they never show themselves, there is no way Nami can win. Scotch adds that they are expecting her friends to come, since they made it so they would have to follow their tracks. The scene changes to Luffy who is doing just that. Franky is still chasing after him, despite Luffy's best efforts to tell him to stop. He notices the footprints end and before he can do anything, runs right off the cliff. Scotch notes how stupid it was of Luffy to run off the cliff. Luffy falls past Nami, who warns her that there are bad guys with her. Rock somehow conjures up a pincushion made of icicles below Luffy. Luffy breaks the icicles using a Gomu Gomu no Gatling attack enhanced with Busoshoku Haki. Rock shoots him, but Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Fusen to catch the bullets, recognizing the brothers from earlier. Luffy tells them that Rayleigh told him that simply deflecting the bullets is sloppy, and taught Luffy how to send them back at foe with twice the power. Luffy does just that with a new technique, Gomu Gomu no Thank You Fire, covering Rock in an explosion. Angered, Scotch shoots at the summit of the mountain, breaking off a large part of the top. Nami warns Luffy and Franky to watch out, only to see that Luffy is back to dodging Franky's uncontrollable attacks. Rock found it insulting that two allies would be fighting each other in the midst of their fight like this.
As the mountain falls on Luffy and Franky, Nami warns them once more. Rock tells the pirates they will not let them dodge the falling mountain top. Franky, in a fit of clarity, grabs the falling rock and throws it at Rock. Nami is shocked that Franky was actually useful. Luffy congratulates him, only Franky to respond by attacking him again. Luffy, having had enough, knocks Franky out cold with a Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gun. Scotch grabs Nami from the beam holding her and makes a run for it. Luffy runs after them, apologizing to Franky and Chopper, saying Chopper will look at his wounds later. As Scotch hops up the mountain, he comments how the mountains are like his backyard. He reaches the plateau and finds Trafalgar Law waiting for him. Law cuts Scotch in half. Scotch gets back up and comes at Law with a knife. Law jumps up and puts both hands on Scotch's chest. He emits an electric current, using a move called Counter Shock. Scotch falls over in a burning heap. Nami thanks Law, but promptly retracts it and asks for her body back. As Luffy breaks Nami's chains with his teeth, Law tells him he wants to talk to Luffy about something. Even though his coming to the island might have been accidental, there is an important key laying dormant on the island that could throw the world into pandemonium. He goes on to say that there are only two ways to survive in the New World, either go under the safety umbrella of an Emperor, or consistently challenge them. Law says he knows Luffy is not the serving kind, which Luffy agrees with. Law then asks Luffy to form an alliance with him. If Luffy accepts, then the two of them can enact Law's plan to take down one of the Four Emperors.

Nami is surprised by Law's proposal, calling it crazy and telling Luffy not to agree. Law tells him that it will not be immediate, and following the plan will only give them a chance at defeating one of them. Luffy asks which Emperor Law had in mind, and Law tells him the answer which was only audible to Luffy and Nami. Luffy, satisfied with Law's answer, agrees to the alliance, much to Nami's surprise. Back at the remains of the first two research labs, Luffy tells the other Straw Hat Pirates present about his plan, and they are just as surprised. Usopp starts shaking Luffy and yelling at him for being so reckless, Nami tells him they need to follow their own pace in the New World. Chopper agrees, saying it is too early to fight an Emperor. Nico Robin tells Luffy she will follow his decision, but betrayal is always an aftereffect of any pirate alliance, and his tendency to trust people too quickly could be a problem. Luffy asks Law if he is going to betray him, Law answers no. Luffy tells his crew not to worry, since they are with him. He thinks Law is a good person, but if something does go wrong, they've all trained for two years and can handle it. The Straw Hats are both shocked and humbled by their captain's words.
Law uses Shambles, returning the displaced crew members to their normal bodies. Franky is happy to be back in his own body, and Robin is glad to have him out of Chopper's body. Chopper is glad to be back, but angrily asks why he is so beaten up. Franky and Luffy both apologize and blame the other for the damage to Chopper's body. Luffy blames Franky for going on a rampage and having to be subdued while Franky blames Luffy for using excessive force to bring him down. Chopper says they are both to blame and both apologize. The only one unhappy with the outcome is Nami, who was placed in Sanji's body, due to her body not being there. Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper, on the other hand, find her predicament hysterical. Nami yells at Law to do something about it, but he says he cannot without another body. He then turns his attention on the sleeping children, whom Luffy says he wants to save. Law tells them about their drug addiction, but Chopper tells him they know already. He explains how they want to send the kids home, but cleansing their bodies will take a while, and their size is an issue. Law explains that human growth projects is something the World Government has been working on for hundreds of years as a method of creating an army of super soldiers. Law adds that Caesar Clown is probably trying to perfect them and get the better of Vegapunk and the World Government. He asks if they really want to save the kids. Nami replies they do, saying they cried and begged for the crew's help, saying even the kids know something is up. Nami states she will not leave the island until the kids are safe. Law takes that to mean she will stay here alone, but Luffy corrects him, saying that he does not leave people behind, so if Nami and Chopper stay, everyone is staying. He then adds that Sanji wanted to put the samurai back together, and asks Law for his help since he is their ally now.
Usopp clarifies for Law, saying the two captains have different ideas of what it means to have an alliance. Luffy states it is like being friends. Usopp goes on to mention Luffy's stubbornness. Law states that Luffy's crew's wishes have nothing to do with their agreement. He then gives in, saying they do not have time for it. He tells the Straw Hats to take care of the samurai. He then asks who their doctor is, saying the two of them will check out the drugs given to the children as well as find a way to keep Caesar busy. Chopper apologizes for his immobility as Usopp ties him to Law's head, mortifying the captain and causing the rest of the Straw Hats to laugh uncontrollably. Law, having relocated Chopper from being tied to his head to dangling from the tassels of his sheath by one horn, goes on to say that the Straw Hats are on Caesar's hit list, and he will not stop until they are dead. He tells them about Caesar's bounty and how he got it, as well as a break down of his abilities and weapons. He also adds that if Caesar were to lose his perfect little hideaway, he would come after them with everything he could. He adds that anyone who cannot use Haki cannot go near him. Luffy tells Law that the four Haki users on the island are the two of them, as well as Zoro and Sanji. Luffy confirms for himself that all Law has to do is kidnap the mad scientist. He asks who they will get the ransom money from. Law says the kidnapping is less about money and more about causing a little chaos. He tells them to focus on capturing Caesar, and then he will explain the plan in detail to them. He gives them one last chance to opt out, but Luffy holds firm to teaming up. Law reminds him to relay this information to his absent crew members.
Back outside the lab, the G-5 Marines are under attack by the centaurs. Several of the attacking centaurs are identified as former prisoners. Smoker asks how the incident report from four years ago could state that there were zero survivors. Monet informs Caesar that a Den Den Mushi rings inside the lab but he says to ignore it, saying he knows who it is and what they will say. A report saying they opened the door, something came out, how it got the others, and they need help. Caesar then comments on how rare it is to have so many guests at once. He then says he will introduce his pet, adding that not one of them will make it off the island alive.
On the burning side of the island, one of the centaurs is trying to radio in to Caesar, just as expected earlier. The two centaurs panic, wondering what they just released. They are being chased by a formless blob. As they run, they get hit by some gas and suffocate. The blob then absorbs them. The blob is then introduced as the creature Slime.

Sanji's group is recovering from the fall and the effects of the KYP gas. Sanji wonders if the samurai is alright. Zoro argues that Sanji wanted to take the shortcut, but the cook fires back that they all agreed to go. Brook remembers the shadows he saw before they fell unconscious. Zoro argues that no one was there while Sanji disagrees. There is a flashback to an hour ago, when the group finds the footprints. Brook calls Zoro and Sanji over to look at the giant footprints. He thinks they might belong to the legendary yeti. Zoro and Sanji tell him to not be ridiculous. Brook gets excited, stating that beyond here lies the dream of man as all three imagine what the yeti looks like. They follow the footprints to the edge of a cliff, turn around, and see two large shadows and hear the sound of guns getting cocked. The Yeti Cool Brothers shoot them with the KYP bullets. Rock explains that the gas can put even the heaviest drinker into a complete stupor. He also tells them about section F-16, home of the icicle pincushion. They blast the tip of the cliff off with their rifles, sending the inebriated pirates with it. Zoro, in his last moments of consciousness, manages to cut the plateau containing the icicles, saving himself and the others.
In area F-16, a collection team discovers the three unconscious bodies. Sanji grabs the leg of one of the soldiers, surprising him. He surprises the soldiers even further by completely defeating the whole group. He realizes that he has to be careful, as Nami's body is far more delicate than his own. He then punches Zoro and Brook in the head to wake them up. Sanji asks Brook if he thinks the samurai is nearby. Brook says he remembers seeing the torso around here. The crew steps on a body unconscious in the snow; first Sanji, then Brook, and then Zoro notices the body and realizes it is the samurai. He is completely frozen. Sanji stomps on the Samurai's head, breaking the ice. The samurai gasps for air. He tells them that he suddenly became paralyzed. He says he is not cold, but Sanji calls him out on his lie. He explains that his ability prevents him from swimming and right now it feels like his torso is under water. Zoro and Brook reason that the torso fell in the salt water lake. Zoro concludes that if he can still feel it, then the sharks have not eaten the torso yet. Sanji realizes they do not have much time and they need to recover the samurai's torso. The samurai is surprised by this kind of kindness coming from pirates. Sanji tells him it is strictly out of responsibility and the second their body issues are taken care of, he is going to fight and beat the samurai to a pulp. The samurai then thanks Sanji. Sanji remarks that he is finally showing some gratitude and maybe everyone should get frozen once.
They then see a group in the distance. It is the Centaur Patrol Unit. They are running from the monster that appeared at the lake. Zoro asks what they are talking about. The centaurs then notice the pirates, angry that they lost, but keep moving. Zoro then looks toward the lake, and does not seem to remember the enormous mountain currently there.
The scene changes to inside the lab. Caesar Clown is talking about how Slime is the same thing that caused the massive explosion four years ago. Everyone thinks Caesar purified the toxic gas, but Caesar reveals that he simply condensed it and, not wanting to be wasteful, compressed it into Slime. He goes on to say that just because people forget a tragedy does not mean it is gone. In fact, it was sitting in the palm of Caesar's hand all this time.
Outside the front of the lab, the G-5 Marines are stealing a ship. Tashigi tries to hold off some enemies, but accidentally transforms into smoke and cannot control it. Smoker tells her to get out of the way and asks if the door barring their escape is open. A soldier responds that the enemy is in the lab and the door will not move. This irritates Smoker, as it would all be easier if he were in his own body.
Behind the lab, Law and Chopper warp into one of Law's Rooms. Law explains where they are and where Caesar and Monet are. He tells Chopper to investigate the drugs while he works on a way to get Caesar and Monet out of the building. Chopper asks why Law could not just capture them since they trust Law so much, making infiltration easy for him. Law tells Chopper he has a certain problem that prevents him from capturing them so easily. The Straw Hats need to capture Caesar as quickly as possible and Law will do the rest. Law then hears screaming. Tashigi looks up to see something flying toward them, thinking it to be a huge bomb. It turns out to be Luffy, Robin, and Franky. Luffy and Franky crash into the bow of the destroyed Marine ship. Robin avoids the impact by using Wing. Robin lands delicately while Franky punches his way out of the wrecked ship. Luffy then shouts for "Master" to get outside so they can beat him up and kidnap him. Franky comments on how good of a shortcut they took while Robin reminds them they are supposed to be secretive. Law is irritated by Luffy's conspicuous entrance, while Smoker and the rest of G-5 are surprised to see him.

Surprised by the sudden appearance of, Robin, Franky and Luffy, the subordinates of Caesar Clown struggle to organize a counter-attack. With Franky blowing a group of them away with his Strong Right, Robin and Luffy discuss where they'll find Caesar as it would be unlikely for him to be outside. Tashigi (in Smoker's body) approaches Luffy demanding to know what he is plotting on the island, while the latter (ignorant of the body-swap) expresses relief that 'Smoker' is okay. Frustrated over being ignored, Tashigi goes to attack Luffy, finally managing to make a conscious transformation with Smoker's Logia ability. However, Luffy is easily able to dodge and subdue her, questioning how 'Smoker' had become so weak after the time-skip.
Seeing this, Smoker (in Tashigi's body) quickly moves in to strike Luffy, hitting him with a barrage of attacks using his seastone-tipped jitte. Confused, Luffy does not understand how 'Smoker' became so weak, while his second-in-command (whom Luffy has forgotten the name of) has become so powerful. Declaring himself as the real Smoker, the Marine again lunges towards Luffy who narrowly dodges the blow, stunned at this claim. Robin then interjects, explaining the possibility of Law having something to do with the change which helps Luffy understand, who then breaks into laughter once realizing the situation.
Not impressed by the pirate captain's attitude, Smoker attacks out of anger which Luffy manages to dodge again, entering Gear 2 and quickly moves in front of Smoker, claiming that he will postpone their fight until the Marine is in his original body and at full strength. Suddenly everyone is surprised after a large explosion is set off, and it is revealed Franky had already made it to the front entrance and blown the door open with his Franky Radical Beam. Calling for the others to follow him inside, they are then interrupted as a strange blob-like substance begins to rain from the sky.
Landing onto the ship the G-5 Marines had commandeered, it quickly reveals itself to be hostile, and very dangerous. Beginning to emit poisonous gas after being attack, the Marines quickly equip themselves with gas masks and try to remove the threat from their ship. With the blobs beginning to merge and grow, one man tries to push it away, only to suffer acidic burns. Claiming it looks weak to fire, another Marine pulls out a flame-thrower and begins to burn the unknown mass, which initially starts to whither away. Thinking they were successful, their victory is short lived as an enormous explosion engulfs the boat and surrounding water, distracting everyone on the shoreline as the boat is reduced to splinters.
Smoker and Tashigi can only look on as their men are decimated, while Caesar's subordinates laugh it off, claiming the menace is finally gone. Contrary to their belief, more of the poisonous blobs begin to rain from the sky, and Caesar Clown himself is revealed to be watching the disaster unfold. Claiming the monster does not like water, the blobs they see now are in fact parts of a much larger body isolated on the fire-side of Punk Hazard, which is firing itself across the lake one piece at a time (Sanji (in Nami's body), Zoro and Brook watching the process in the meantime).
Damning everyone present once his monster finally arrives, Caesar is interrupted mid-sentence by Luffy whose one-track mind has him focused solely on capturing the man.

Brook recognizes the Slime creature, saying he read about it in a book once. They attack women and use their bodies to melt the woman's clothes. Sanji and Kin'emon are intrigued and ask to borrow the book later. Zoro directs their attention to the lake, saying that the slime from the creature is probably dangerous to touch, as the slime that fell into the lake has killed all the fish. Brook asks Sanji if he is really going to look for Kin'emon's torso. Sanji says he is, and it is something only he can do. He apologizes to Nami in advance, saying he is the best swimmer among them, promising to return before anything bad happens to Nami's body. He tells the others to take care of the slime creatures nearby as dives in, realizing that cold does not even come close to describing the water temperature.
Inside the lab, Law sees his chance as he and Monet are alone in the room. She tells him that Caesar is not there. Law gently sets down the bag containing Chopper on the couch, asking where Caesar went. Considering her boss' bad taste, she concludes that he is probably watching the fighting outside. Law tells her that he is almost done on the island and will be leaving soon. Monet seems disappointed, saying it will be lonely without him. He tells her he wants to borrow her ability for a bit, asking her to come with him. Monet teasingly calls it a date and goes with him, commenting on how cold Law is. When she asks him what he wants, he tells her she will understand when she gets there. Chopper then recognizes Monet as the bird-woman Usopp was talking about.
Outside the lab, Luffy has grabbed Caesar, to the latter's annoyance. The centaurs and satyrs aim their guns at Luffy, angry that he would lay a hand on their master. Franky recognizes that Luffy is using Haki, and is amazed by the ability. Robin tells him that Busoshoku Haki is the ability to grab a Logia user in their intangible state. However, unlike seastone or the ocean, it does not nullify the ability. They still do not know the true power of the Gasu Gasu no Mi, so the battle is far from over. Her explanation is supported as Luffy tries to attack Caesar with a Haki-infused Gomu Gomu no Bell, but Caesar dodges by extending his torso. Caesar then uses Gas Robe, throwing it at Luffy's head.
He laughs as he tells Luffy to inhale, saying he has done countless experiments on how lethal his gas is. Then, to everyone's surprise, Luffy inhales all of the poisonous gas, looking like apparent suicide to those watching. To surprise the spectators even more, Luffy releases the gas from his ears like a steam whistle. He tells Caesar that poisons do not work that well on him anymore, thanks to Magellan. Caesar is offended that he would be compared to a Paramecia Devil Fruit user. While he is fuming over the insult, Luffy attacks him with Gomu Gomu no Jet Mace.
Caesar falls down to earth with a crash. His subordinates are angry that Luffy would do that to him, and prepare to attack them. Caesar insults them, calling them peons and orders them not to touch him. His subordinates are surprised by the insult. Luffy gets ready to attack Caesar with Gomu Gomu no Gatling, but before he can, Caesar hits a pair of castanets together, causing an explosion called Gastonet. Luffy is caught in the blast, and Robin becomes worried. To make her concern worse, Caesar orders the smaller pieces of Slime to attach themselves to Luffy, causing a blinding explosion. When the smoke clears, there is no sign of Luffy. Caesar begins to laugh victoriously, only for Luffy to appear behind him and comment on how close and how big the explosion was, much to Caesar's comically stunned surprise. Luffy then attacks him with Gomu Gomu no Jet Stamp. Franky and Robin breathe a sigh of relief, as Luffy grabs Caesar.
He shouts to Franky and Robin if they have anything to contain Caesar, since they cannot tie up a Logia. Franky wonders if there is a barrel nearby. A Marine calls out that they will take Caesar into custody, and bring Luffy along too. Tashigi tells Smoker that Luffy captured Caesar, and he seems indifferent. Suddenly, Luffy has trouble breathing and passes out. Caesar stands over him, saying Luffy took him far too lightly. Franky, Robin, Tashigi, and even Smoker are all surprised and confused by what just transpired.
Back inside the lab, Law and Monet are walking. Law is clutching his chest in pain, and seems to be having difficulty breathing. He tries to speak and falls to his knees, making Monet concerned. He looks into the darkness and asks who is out there. A man steps out, saying he is the one Law felt. Law, who seems bothered to see him, asks what he is doing here as Monet giggles. The man asks how long it has been, remarking how much Law has grown.

The chapter starts with the introduction of a man named Vergo. He asks Law if he thought they really knew nothing, saying they sent Monet in as a spy due to his boss' distrust of Caesar Clown. He muses on the fact that Law is a Shichibukai. Law asks him when he arrived, and he answers just moments ago. He explains he was in Dressrosa when he heard that an SAD tanker was heading out so he got on board, noting that it was the right choice. Law does not believe that Vergo's arrival was that coincidental and asks what he did to harm him. Vergo replies that if Law had done any harm, he would be dead right now, saying that Law cannot hide anything from adults. Law then says he will have to get rid of him, grabbing his sword. But before he can even begin to draw it, he suddenly drops it due to Vergo's paralyzing ability. Vergo then remembers he wanted to restate what he said earlier. He takes out a bamboo staff, darkening it by imbuing it with haki. He then brings it down on the back of Law's head, saying Law should call him Vergo-san from now on.
In front of the lab, the Marines are looking on in shock, as Caesar Clown has now defeated not only Luffy, but Robin, Franky, Smoker, and Tashigi, all without touching them. One soldier wonders if it was due to Haoshoku Haki, but another argues that the differences in their strength is not enough for it to work. Caesar's subordinates gloat about their victory in front of the Marines. Clown then orders for the five people he just defeated to be tied up, reminding them to use Seastone on the Devil Fruit users. He tells them to leave the Marines and enter the lab for shelter since weird things have started falling from the sky. He then observes that the Yeti Cool Brothers messed up, remarking that Law and the Straw Hats were a bit too much for them to handle.
In the center of the island, Brook and Zoro have to contend with the many blobs of slime that are slowly surrounding them. They have just learned that cutting them releases poisonous gas. Zoro suggests that since the things they are fighting are essentially jelly, Brook should eat them. Before they can argue further, Kin'emon screams out in pain. In the lake, Sanji has to contend with the freezing temperatures and the strain it is putting on Nami's body, repeatedly apologizing to her. He then notices the huge cloud of poisonous gas made by Slime. He realizes that his Kenbunshoku Haki is quite hazy, since any life energy he senses gets mixed in with that of the fish. He then looks up and sees a shark carrying the torso in its mouth.
Sanji immediately begins swimming after the shark. Back on the shore, Kin'emon is screaming in pain, even coughing up blood when suddenly he realizes he is not in pain anymore. Sanji is then seen kicking the shark with Joue Shoot. He then grabs the torso and begins swimming back up. The shark tries to bite him but is instantly killed by the poison in the water. Sanji then realizes he is surrounded. He wonders if he can make it with Nami's muscle strength, reluctant to put more stress on her body. He then uses Blue Walk to propel himself up and out of the now completely poisoned lake, much to everyone's relief. Kin'emon, now completely intact and getting his official introduction, cannot express how happy he is. Brook notes how tall he is. He asks Sanji his name, and Sanji asks why he is being so polite all of a sudden, considering he was verbally abusive only a little while ago. He says he is forever indebted to Sanji. Sanji tells him to man up and stop bowing. Brook interrupts, pointing out how the slime is slowly closing in on them.
Sanji was irritated that Brook and Zoro had not gotten rid of the problem yet. Kin'emon suggests they try burning it. He tells them that his blade can burn what it slashes. Kin'emon then proceeds to slash one of the slime blobs. As it burns, Sanji notices something strange only moments before the whole area is consumed in a blinding explosion. Miraculously, everyone survived the explosion completely untouched.
Brook asks Kin'emon what he did. Kin'emon remarks that even he was surprised, not expecting it to explode the way it did. He then tells them that he simply cut through the flames of the explosion, going on to say that his Foxfire Style not only cuts with flames, but also has a secret technique that lets him cut flames apart. He then declares that he will go to the lab to save his son now. Zoro, his curiosity about the samurai's fighting style awakened, offers to go with him to the lab to find his son.

On a certain island in the New World, the parents of the kidnapped children ask the Marines to utilize their power to search for their missing children and to let them talk to Tashigi. One of the Marines finds this offensive and kicks one of the parents, stating that they are from the G-5 Marine base and that they shouldn't question the reports if they are unhappy. One of the other Marines exclaims that the commodore is going too far and then begins to laugh. Introduced as Commodore Yarisugi of the G-5 Marine base, he shouts that all the children died in an accident and that the matter has been confirmed by Vice Admiral Vergo numerous times. Yarisugi goes on to say that if the parents keep making a fuss, they will kill them all and set fire to the village. A Marine again laughs saying that he has gone too far, while Yarisugi complains that the parents are the ones who are taking this too far and talks about how Tashigi is the right hand of Vice Admiral Smoker of Unit 01. He shouts again saying that the citizens should keep ignoring the incident what happened three years ago. Wondering if their pleas are reaching Vergo, one of the parents is heard saying that he once protected the village from pirates before and that he appeared to be a gentle Marine. The remaining parents of the missing children question the story of their children dying in an accident at sea and believe that they're alive somewhere.
Back at Punk Hazard on Usopp and Nami's side, the kids are all shown to have woken up and are going berserk. Nami shouts for Usopp to put the kids back to sleep but it has no effect on them now, as their withdrawal symptoms overpowers Usopp's sleeping drug. As the children approach them, the two question what they should do next. Usopp asks if he can take them out, to which Nami hits him over the head, stating that they are still kids. Meanwhile, the children that haven't been chained up but still crave the drugged candy begin to approach them. Out of nowhere, Caesar Clown shows up, to which the kids are all excited to see as the man is shown holding a large bag of the candy they desire. While Usopp and Nami are shocked by his sudden appearance, Caesar promises to give the children the candy they crave, telling them to return to the research facility as it is dangerous out there.
At the center lake, Zoro, Sanji, Brook and Kin'emon are all running from Smiley. Brook wonders if the slime is angry, to which Zoro responds with the suggestion that it is because the "Mini-Slimes" blew up. The group begins to notice that the slime is transforming and watch as it changes shape. The slime is then revealed to have eaten the Sara Sara no Mi, Model: Axolotl, a Zoan-type Devil Fruit. Sanji questions if it's a frog, while Zoro disagrees, saying it's a lizard. Smiley attacks the group again with a large poisonous blob-like attack, Brook exclaims that it's too big to deflect and the group runs for it. Smiley continues to chase them, and Kin'emon wonders whether it can reproduce itself infinitely, which Brook rebuts saying that the other slime body has gotten smaller. Sanji catches on and realizes that it may be projecting itself over the lake, and as the group is escaping they try to think of what to do against Smiley due to their inability to attack it. Zoro says that he is going to the research facility, much to Sanji's frustration as they have to go with him in case he gets separated or lost from Kin'emon. Brook says that he would also like to see Kin'emon's swordsmanship and the four of them decide to head to the research facility.
In front of the research facility the G-5 marines are seen trying to break into the research facility's door in an attempt to rescue Smoker and Tashigi, but their attacks have no effect on the thick metal. The parts of Smiley that were projected over the lake have regrouped and have gained size, forming several large bodies around them. Stuck and running out of options, the G-5 Marines comment that all the paths having been destroyed and not being able to steal another ship.
Inside the main research facility, Vergo questions Caesar's motives. Monet suggests that since he has awoken his pet, Smiley, then he must be starting a new experiment. Monet asks Vergo if he ate a hamburger this morning, to which Vergo replies by saying that it is his favorite and asks how she knew. Pointing out the leftovers on his cheek, Vergo is revealed to be a vice admiral and head of the Marine G-5 base. Continuing his conversation with Monet, Vergo comments that he would like to see the experiment and asks if everyone outside is going to die. Replying that they probably will, Monet assures Vergo that he will be safe inside the research facility. Interrupting the conversation, Smoker begins shouting at Vergo that the men outside are his subordinates. Knowing this, Vergo is shown to be apathetic towards them and is instead more interested in the captives being held in the cage, referring to it as a grand line up.
Inside the cage sits Luffy, Robin, Franky (who is unconscious), Law, Smoker and Tashigi. Recalling the time when Luffy and Smoker were locked in the same cage back in Arabasta, Robin and Luffy reminisce which quickly annoys Smoker who interrupts, telling them to shut up. Tashigi asks Smoker what to do about the feeling she is experiencing, referring to the Sea Stone handcuffs weakening Smoker's body. Smoker begins to talk about "Joker", stating that it's the name of an underworld broker. Berating himself for not being able to catch out Vergo, their captor tells Smoker that from the day Smoker was transferred; he had put up the largest possible guard, to protect Smoker from catching him out. Vergo tells him that he will finally be relieved of that stress, as now that Smoker and Tashigi know his true identity; it means that the two Marines will have to die there, while Vergo assures them that he will make it look like an accident. Asking Law who Joker is, Law explains to Luffy that he used to be a subordinate of Joker as well as Vergo (being how they knew each other) and reveals to the group that Joker is just an alias he uses as a broker, but his real name is known throughout the world as Donquixote Doflamingo.

In the shelter of the destroyed lab, Nami and Usopp are having a difficult time dealing with Caesar Clown, who came to reclaim the children the Straw Hats had freed. He mockingly asks why they took the kids out since they are in pain, while Usopp reminds Nami that Caesar is a Logia with a bounty of 300,000,000. Demanding to know what he made them take, Nami tells Caesar that all of the children want to go home and their parents must be worried sick about them. Behind them, the children continue to beg Caesar for candy, causing Caesar to rebut by asking Nami to show him one child that wanted to go home. Usopp tries to convince them not to go, but one of the enlarged children delivers a powerful uppercut, sending Usopp flying back. Nami tries to grab one of the children and begs him not to go, but due to the withdrawal symptoms causing him to hallucinate, the child believes Nami to be a cockroach and knocks her off of him, delivering a vicious right hook. Usopp gets back up and angrily tells them to calm down as he grabs his slingshot, only for Nami to grab it out of his hands, saying the kids have done nothing wrong and are just victims. Arguing that force is the only way to stop them at this point, Usopp explains that since they are hallucinating from withdrawal they may end up killed.
As the children moan to have their chains released, Nami realizes that they have to redirect the children's anger at Caesar Clown. The children break through the chains, astounding even Caesar as to how strong they have become. Realizing that there is a way to stop the gas Logia, Usopp launches a Firebird Star at him. However, the flames burn out just before touching Caesar, much to Usopp's surprise. Caesar concludes that Usopp thought it would ignite due to his body being made of gas, concluding that Usopp knows about his Devil Fruit abilities. Caesar tells him that his abilities do not extend just to poisonous gases, but to any gas within a certain distance of him, including the oxygen in the air around them. He then demonstrates this ability by removing the air around Usopp, causing the latter to choke. Nami tries to attack him with thunder clouds, but suffers the same fate as Usopp. As they are choking, Caesar tell the two Straw Hats that he had indeed met Luffy's group and suffocated them just like he is doing now. The children begin to demand candy, causing Caesar to turn to the children and explain that they will only get their candy if they return to the lab. But before that, he orders them to kill Nami and Usopp, and two of the children pick up a large pipe.
Before they can deal the blow, Brownbeard bursts through them, also carrying a pipe, knocking the two children down and tries to attack Caesar, only for the latter to just use his ability to dodge the pipe. However this breaks Caesar's grip on Nami and Usopp's deprived oxygen, allowing them to breathe once more. They are surprised to see Brownbeard, who tells him he is awake now. Caesar sarcastically asks who he is, remembering him as his subordinate, and asks what happened to him that would burn his body so much. Brownbeard remembers Scotch saying he was here to kill him on Clown's orders. Brownbeard continues to attack him, saying he trusted Caesar. Clown tells him not to get so angry, saying he was surprised he survived the attack by the Yeti Cool Brothers. Clown tells the children to get away from this place since it is dangerous and to get on the Flying Gas Balloon as they continue to hallucinate, one seeing a huge snake and another seeing zombies coming up from the ground. Nami continues to try in vain to keep them from going with the madman.
Brownbeard tells Caesar he does not care that he was tricked, but he wants his subordinates back so they do not suffer the same fate as he did. The demand takes Caesar totally by surprise, so he reminds Brownbeard that he no longer has any men, that they, including Brownbeard, are now his men, and Brownbeard shouldn't act like a captain, calling him trash from the New World. While the two conflict with each other, Nami and Usopp run after the children still intending to keep them safe. Clown reminds him that his subordinates still see him as their savior and are too dumb to know any better, and then admits that he is only keeping them alive so he can use them as guinea pigs, enraging Brownbeard even more which prompts him to attack, but Caesar intercepts it with Gastanet, causing a huge explosion. Nami and Usopp are barely outrunning the blast when Caesar appears right behind them, causing another explosion to engulf the two.
Caesar then gets on the Den Den Mushi, telling Monet he recovered the children, and asks her how the preparations are going for Smiley's bait. Monet replies that all the preparations he ordered have been complete. Clown tells her that all that is left is to wait for Smiley to arrive. He then orders her to connect him to all receivers. Caesar then begins talking to various illegal brokers. He apologizes for the delay due to the experiment, but what he has is well worth the wait. He explains that the poison gas weapon he is about to show them has been enhanced to a greater extent than what it was four years ago. He calls it a weapon the World Government could never recreate. Brokers all across the New World are watching the broadcast, some of them including representatives for one of the Yonko, some unknown brokers also watch it as Clown tells them he is willing to make a deal if they are interested. Tamago and Pekoms are seen among the brokers viewing it. Another one of the viewers turns out to be Eustass Kid. A subordinate asks him if he is interested in the weapon of mass destruction. Kid replies that he is not, but knowing about it does not hurt.

Caesar Clown and the children are seen disembarking from the Flying Gas Balloon, surprising the nearby Marines who question what the ship is. Entering the research laboratory through an upper entrance, Caesar reminds the children are that the lab is their home and their candy is in Biscuits Room. Ordering his subordinates to lock the doors and to make sure they do not escape again, all of the children hurry inside eagerly, with the exception of Mocha, who upon entering begins to resist the addictive drug and remembers her frightening memories of the Lab. Some of the satyrs try to calm her down, but she finally remembers Nami and Usopp who were telling all the children not to follow Caesar and trying to save them. Realizing exactly what had happened, she begins to try and escape again, crying out for Nami and Usopp to help her.
Far in the distance, back at the Straw Hats' make-shift hide out, Nami eventually regains consciousness, marveling at how Sanji's strong body allowed her to survive Caesar's attack. Noticing Usopp beginning to awaken nearby, she moves to assist him. Confusing her with the real Sanji, Usopp let's slip his disappointment in it actually being Nami causing her to become rather abrasive.
Back in the laboratory, Caesar meets up with Monet and Vergo, the latter of the two talking about how they had just been drinking coffee with some cookies, only to quickly remember that there wasn't any cookies to be had. Asking Caesar when is he going to start the experiment, the mad scientist replies by asking Monet to collect some pictures, and tells Vergo to do a better job at keeping the Marines at bay, admitting that the arrival of Smoker and his men had caused him to become nervous.
Moving towards the cage, Caesar then reveals that he knows all of Law's plans due to Monet's tracking Law with her abilities, and thanks Law for naively giving him his heart in exchange for Monet's heart as part of their contract. Responding to Caesar's condescending gloat by insulting his intellectual abilities, Caesar becomes infuriated and grabs Law's heart (which had been being held out by Vergo), and squeezed it, inflicting pain upon the Shichibukai. Luffy, impressed and shocked at how he can still survive despite his heart no longer being inside his body, is cut off by Smoker who demands to know where his heart was currently being held. Holding it out before him, Caesar gloatingly mocks him about it.
Receiving a call from his subordinates, Caesar then resumes his broadcast to the brokers through a Den Den Mushi, explaining the nature of his pet/weapon Smiley and the history of the island. Pinpointing the one flaw of the weapon from four years ago, he then elaborates and explains that he had since eliminated said flaw, and by feeding Smiley with a special bait he prepared, the poisonous axolotl would become an improved weapon called Shinokuni; being an even stronger poisonous gas weapon than it was before.
Outside in the winter region, Smiley is shown to still be chasing after Sanji, Zoro, Brook, and Kin'emon, who marvel at its still growing size. They notice a giant sweet in the distance with a big screen behind it and something underneath. Pulling the sweet across the plains, several of Caesar's subordinates and Vegapunk's dragon are then told by Caesar to escape before Smiley caught up to them. Realizing their sled was no longer usable, and the dragon having freed itself, the men quickly run away with the Straw Hats and Kin'emon trailing shortly behind. Reaching the sweet, Smiley briefly pauses after seeing Caesar on the display. Attempting to show his taming of the monster, Caesar begun issuing orders for the slime only to be ignored, with the monster quickly devouring the large sweet.

Caesar is happy that Smiley ate the candy as instructed. He then calls for Smiley to be reborn as the people in the cell look on nervously. Bubbles begin to come off of Smiley as it chases the Straw Hats, Kin'emon, and Caesar's subordinates. The subordinates are panicking while Sanji observes that the candy triggered some kind of chemical reaction within the slime. Kin'emon remarks he does not have a good feeling about the whole thing and Zoro agrees. On the now broken sled is a bag of apples. One of the apples in the bag begins to change its appearance with swirls appearing on it, turning into a Devil Fruit. Caesar then tells Smiley that they shall meet again, and orders Shinokuni to come to life. Smiley then explodes, causing it to emit a high pressure cloud of toxic gas. The gas quickly catches up with the fleeing pirates and subordinates. Catching one of them, the satyr becomes completely encased, stopping in mid-run. The rest of the satyrs get afraid looking what it did to the one affected, and accelerate while Caesar celebrates the total success of his weapon, saying he will not allow any of the subordinates back in the lab. He explains that the gas hardens on contact with people, making it so they cannot move, and causing an instant numbing effect. Smoker and the other prisoners watch in stunned silence as the screen showing the men's terrible fate, as do the underworld brokers.
Outside the lab, the G-5 Marines watch the broadcast and realize that what they saw on the screen is happening on the very island they find themselves. They realize the only reason the lab is blocked is because it is the only safe place on the island. They then shout angrily for Caesar to let them in. Zoro, Sanji, Brook, and Kin'emon are barely managing to stay ahead of the gas. Brook points out that some animal is ahead of them. It is the dragon that was pulling the now destroyed sled. Sanji does not believe it but Zoro tells him they do exist on the island, and wonders if they could escape by riding on its back, an idea which Brook likes.
Back in the lab, Luffy spots his friends on the screen. Robin wonders why they are there and how they are able to run the way they are. Franky tells her that that is not the best question to ask right now. Luffy calls to his friends that the gas is dangerous, telling them to run, but is cut off by the weakening effects of the seastone, preventing him from raising his voice. Caesar commends Luffy's friends for their toughness, but tells him it is all in vain since soon the island will be a place where nothing can exist, a shinokuni, and the only people able to survive are inside the lab. Just then the cage begins to tip backward. Caesar boasts that a pirate with a 400,000,000 bounty, a Marine vice admiral, and a Shichibukai all could not stop him.
Chopper is watching the cage tip backward from behind, or rather in front, of a door, worrying about what he should do. Just then, a small piece of paper hits him in the head. He uncrumples it and sees the words "do not do anything", and wonders who threw it.
The cage, revealed to be attached to a crane outside, is now outside the facility dangling over the crowd by the door. The Marines outside call out to Smoker and Tashigi, terrified that everyone was captured. The soldiers begin begging for their lives, and Smoker tells Tashigi to tell them about Vergo. The situation is such that even Luffy admits that they have a problem. Overlooking the destroyed lab building, Franky commends the lab and how well built it is, with Robin remarking how the rubble would be a good source of raw materials. Law tells Luffy that they cannot be bothered right now. The current plan is to act on the old one, only to do it right this time. Law then declares that they are going to fight back.

In the New World, a broker is left stunned at how Caesar Clown was able to capture the Shichibukai Trafalgar Law, the captain of the once again active Straw Hat Pirates, the "Devil Child" Nico Robin, and the great Vice Admiral Smoker. Also watching the broadcast, Killer tries to point them out to Eustass Kid, only for his captain to comment in an amused manner about Luffy's return. He then tells Killer that watching is meaningless, and how he does not think Killer ought to work as a broker anyway. Kid also mentions he is surprised about how Law really was planning something all along, having believed he had become a government dog. Asking if the people had arrived yet, Killer tells him they have and that he was surprised they came at all. Before entering the room, Killer reminds Kid to be friendly, causing the captain to become irritated and tells Killer to shut up. Opening the door, it is revealed that inside are Scratchmen Apoo and Basil Hawkins. Apoo, standing amongst a wrecked room and over one of Kid's badly beaten subordinates, tells Kid that it feels nostalgic for him to see his ugly face. Kid instantly becomes enraged, asking what gave him the right to trash someone's hideout. Apoo replies that when he gets invited by the enemy, he comes expecting a fight and that he had suspected there might be a sniper somewhere. As the two challenge each other, Hawkins declares how foolish the meeting is and that he is leaving. Killer asks him to wait as he steps between Kid and Apoo, reminding them that the three crews came together to try and form an alliance and asks that they at least try to discuss it.
On Punk Hazard, Luffy is curious about Law's idea. Below their cage, the Marines continue to panic about the oncoming gas and call out to their superiors to help them. Asking if anyone in the cage can burn things, Luffy tells Law that Franky can, mentioning he even has a beam cannon. Replying that he requires both his hands to use his Radical Beam, Franky instead tells them that he can only use Coup de Boo right now. Law asks him to burn the battleship, which he does so immediately using Franky Fireball. From inside, Caesar watches this and wonders what they are doing, calling them desperate while commenting on their corpses being useful later. Outside, the smoke from the burning ship begins to surround the cage obscuring the view of any onlookers. Taking his chance, Law removes his chains explaining that they needed the smokescreen to hide the fact that they are escaping.
Luffy asks how Law could take off seastone chains so easily, only for Law to continue explaining and mention that they were normal chains that he put in the lab so he could escape in case he was captured. Law then cuts the pirates free, and wonders aloud what he should do with Smoker and Tashigi as he puts them back in their own bodies. Tashigi realizes that her breasts are exposed and tries to hide them with her knees, begging Law to let her out of the chains. Law tells Smoker he has no reason to save him, but if Vergo loses his position due to Smoker returning alive, that would be good. He tells Smoker he will only free him on the condition that he forget everything he learned about him and Joker. On a balcony below the cage, Luffy calls out to Law about how they can get inside. Surprised, Law worriedly asks how Luffy broke out, with Franky telling him the mesh is not made of seastone. Yelling at Luffy to not do anything on his own, they then escape the cage.
Meanwhile, Zoro, Sanji, Brook, and Kin'emon are seen still barely outrunning the approaching gas. Commenting on the comedic way they are running, Kin'emon notes that it is not helping them. Sanji begins to then trail behind due to Nami's body being at its limit, and instinctively clutches his hurting chest, only to grab onto Nami's breast. Realizing this, Sanji is immediately invigorated and shoots ahead of the group, catches up with the dragon and captures it. Nearby, Nami and Usopp are riding on Brownbeard, with Nami apologizing to him for making him carry them in his injured state. Still concerned about the children, she can only hope that they had not eaten the candy yet. Reassuring her that it is not a big deal, Brownbeard states that he has to save his men anyway. They then notice a running figure in the distance, realizing it was the dragon outrunning the gas with several people holding onto it. In front of the lab, the Marines are relieved to see one of the shutters to the lab opening, while inside Caesar's subordinates are panicking due to the shutter opening, asking who had pulled the lever. Someone points up and the subordinates see Luffy, Robin, Law, Tashigi, and Smoker standing over them, a pile of defeated minions under their feet. Tashigi is happy to see everyone inside safely while Law wonders where his heart might be. Luffy remarks how interesting things are getting, and Smoker voices his reluctance about cooperating.
Outside of the lab, Brownbeard, with the dragon now attached to his tail and Zoro, Brook, Sanji, and Kin'emon clinging to the dragon, is running toward the now closing shutter. Zoro asks Kin'emon if he can cut iron and the samurai replies that it is no problem. Zoro then tells Brownbeard to keep running. The two swordsmen cut down the door and Brownbeard barrels through, all of them landing in a heap. Everyone inside is terrified now that the gas can get in the lab, while Luffy is happy to see that everyone is in one place again, and orders everyone to start fighting back.

The Marines are terrified at Brownbeard and the Straw Hats recklessly destroying their only defense against the approaching deadly gas. Usopp realizes the same thing the Marines did. The Marines work to quickly patch the hole in the shutter and manage to keep the gas out. Brook separates his soul from his body and surveys the damage outside, observing that everything is completely coated from the gas as the shell around a bubble containing a video Den Den Mushi wearing a gas mask breaks, allowing the snail to broadcast the destructive power of Shinokuni. Brook declares that anyone who went outside would not survive. He tells the group that he would have definitely died if the hole weren't closed. Zoro nods and simply says "Ok", much to the annoyance of the Marines, who point their guns at the Straw Hats and Brownbeard. Nami and Usopp panic, while Sanji, Zoro, and Brook seem more relaxed, and Brownbeard is just surprised that the Marines know who he is.
On the second floor, Luffy excitedly notes that the battle has started. Law points to Smoker and Tashigi and tells them not to get in his way. Nami calls out to Law and tells him to put her and Sanji back in their own bodies, which he does, much to Sanji's devastation. Nami realizes that she is back to normal, but then realizes that the coat she is wearing is not the original she had on, and punches Sanji for taking her clothes off. Sanji tries to explain, but realizes his body hurts more than if he were just punched. Usopp explains that Nami took a lot of damage from Caesar Clown. Sanji is just relieved that it happened in his body and not hers. Law then asks if everyone is up to date on other people's business. He tells everyone they cannot leave the lab due to the poison gas. He goes on to say that there is a way they can escape to the sea. They must look for a door with "Building R-66" written on it. He tells them that they have two hours to take care of any last minute business and escape. Beyond that, he cannot guarantee their safety inside the lab. Luffy asks Law if everything will be alright in the lab. Law tells him he will simply do what he must and see where things go. Luffy runs off, declaring he will beat Caesar into submission. Kin'emon declares he will save Momonosuke. The other Straw Hats decide to split up and help Kin'emon search, deciding that Zoro should not go alone. Smoker orders his men to retrieve the kidnapped children and locate the "R-66" door. Once they get to the harbor, they will commandeer Vergo's tanker and leave the island on it.
The Marines begin to go after the Straw Hats, thinking they are escaping. Smoker gives Tashigi orders to lead the troops. She asks him where he is going and then realizes it must have to do with Vergo. Smoker reminds Tashigi of his philosophy of never backing down. She then tells him to let her go with him, since Vergo shouldn't be taken lightly. Smoker then asks her who would protect the troops if she went. He then orders he to take them and the kids and escape. Zoro and Usopp are now talking. Zoro cannot believe that Luffy was defeated. Usopp explains that Caesar has the ability to remove the oxygen from the surrounding air. Zoro remembers being put to sleep by the yetis and realizes that dropping one's guard for even a second will be deadly. He then calls out to Luffy that this is the real deal. They are in the New World starting now. The statement at first surprises Luffy, but then he smiles and tells Zoro he will not let his guard down anymore. Luffy runs toward an oncoming group of Caesar's subordinates. Luffy wraps his legs around the side railing and swings under the walkway as they begin shooting at him. He then comes out the other side and begins spinning rapidly, clearing a path through Caesar's men with Gomu Gomu no UFO. He laughs and tells his crew he will go ahead, annoying Zoro who reminds him to take it seriously as Usopp laughs. Luffy gives a shout as he takes out more people with his spinning lower body.

Watching the broadcast of his experiment, Caesar Clown comments that there is now no place left on Punk Hazard where anything can survive. However, he notices the lack of the G-5 Marines in front of the building and notices that he cannot see the Straw Hats, Smoker, and Law in the cage. Monet, also watching, asks Vergo's opinion, and he says that since they cannot see anyone in the cage, they must have escaped. He adds that he may have to kill Law himself because he is troublesome to let wander around. Caesar asks if they escaped, but just then, one of his subordinates enters and informs the group that the Marines and pirates have broken into the A building lobby and are moving forward. Caesar is stunned that they managed to escape and open the shutter, but his subordinate says that they are probably planning to escape through the internal exit. Chopper, seizing the opportunity, ducks out of the room and runs down the hall, saying that he found out how the drug was made and that he found a sedative. As Chopper wonders where to go, Monet seems to notice his departure but does not react.
Caesar, meanwhile, asks where his men are, and is told that most of them are in building B, getting ready to fight. Caesar hatches a plan to block the passage between buildings A and B, isolating A, then destroying the wall, letting Shinokuni in, and killing them all. Caesar's subordinate's panics, saying that some of their men are still in the building, but Caesar does not care. He also tells his subordinate to place a Den Den Mushi near the event so that he can show the brokers the effectiveness of the weapon. Vergo tells Caesar that if Smoker and Law escape, he will also be in trouble. Because of this, he plans to take out the group himself. Vergo wonders where his sword is, but Monet tells him that he is not a swordsman. Vergo, remembering this, heads out.
Inside building A, Luffy encounters the guard to building B, "Machete" Run and promptly defeats him with a Gear 2-enhanced kick. As Luffy fights his way through the guards, he notices a large metal door between buildings A and B closing. Smoker, having just arrived, notices the beeping and asks Law what it means. Law tells him that the doors are starting to close and that Caesar is looking to trap them in building A. Near the front of the building, the G-5 Marines stand in front of the Straw Hat Pirates, Kin'emon, and Brownbeard. Having no patience for this, Brook, Zoro, and Kin'emon hack their way through and are followed by the rest of the group and Vegapunk's dragon. The Marines continue their assault, but Zoro attacks back, only to be blocked by Tashigi. Tashigi tells the Marines that this is not the time to fight, and that they should focus on getting to the next building. Seeing the door starting to close, the Marines pick up the pace, carrying the wounded as they go. Caesar's troops notice Brownbeard carrying the Straw Hats and wonder if he betrayed them as everyone rushes to escape the building.
Outside the lab, a cannon is fired that blows apart the wall of building A, allowing the poisonous gas to seep in. The Straw Hats barely escape with their lives, and Tashigi is thrown in by her own troops. Tashigi tries to run back, but the gate is already closing, leaving some Marines petrified by the gas. However, these Marines pose in stances encouraging their allies to keep going. Caesar, seeing that they have survived, states that he will not let anyone escape.

The Straw Hats and Kin'emon are all escaping on Brownbeard, who is complaining about having to carry all of them, saying they should run unless they are injured. The riders give petty excuses as to why they cannot run, and Brownbeard does not believe any of them.
Close behind them, Tashigi is still saddened by the loss of some of her troops and in shock about how all the activity going on under the Marines' noses, but a soldier tells her they have to keep moving and she agrees. The soldiers next notices something coming from the roof. They then turn and run as the dragon that came in with the pirates breathes a large amount of fire down on them. The soldiers wonder what it is, and Tashigi tells them she heard rumors about there being dragons on Punk Hazard. She explains that Vegapunk made the dragons artificially to serve as guards of the facility. The dragon darts from wall to wall, descending on the Marines and dodging their bullets. It opens its jaws right in front of one of the soldiers who dives for cover at the last second, sending the dragon's head into the pipes on the wall. The dragon then turns its head around to show it eating the metal from the pipes. The Marines are terrified by the hostile reptile and continue to run towards building B. The dragon then buzzes low over them before continuing ahead of them. A soldier comments that it looked panicked and concludes that something is going on in front of them.
The Marines in front of Tashigi start cheering, saying reinforcements have arrived. Vergo has entered the passage from the other side. The soldiers are overjoyed to see their commanding officer, and ask if headquarters was informed of the situation and about the size of the reinforcement party. Tashigi is the only one not celebrating. Tashigi can barely make enough sound to tell them to run before multiple soldiers fall in front of Vergo. As a Marine falls over, Vergo's index finger is shown with fresh blood dripping from it. A soldier asks Vergo why he is attacking, saying that even as a form of punishment, using Shigan will kill them.
Tashigi remembers when she and Smoker were first transferred to the G-5 base. Vergo was telling them how the soldiers are rowdy and not too bright, but were overall good people. In between flashes of Vergo taking out more troops, Tashigi remembers a soldier telling her about how Vergo sometimes leaves suddenly to go home and care for his sick sister. She also remembers talking to him about a kidnapping case where Vergo told her it was a false claim, and that the parents were in denial and overreacting about the death of their child, saying that the idea of kidnapping gives them hope that their child is still alive, saying Tashigi would understand when she became a parent. Back to the present, Tashigi charges at Vergo with her sword. Vergo blocks the sword with his arm and then grabs her by the head. He then delivers a devastating close range punch that knocks her to the ground and almost unconscious. A soldier yells at Vergo, calling him an impostor, saying the real Vice Admiral Vergo would never do this. The remaining soldiers all gang up and attack Vergo, but Vergo annihilates all of them so he is the only one left standing. Tashigi, in her mind, prays for Smoker's help. Vergo then hears someone and a person is seen bounding around the corridor. Before Vergo can react, Sanji delivers a flaming kick to Vergo's head. The soldiers that are still conscious are surprised to see one of the pirates. Sanji said he heard the sound of a woman in trouble and came to help.
Back with Brownbeard and his passengers, Usopp asks why Sanji left so suddenly. Zoro tells him he felt an unfamiliar presence. Brook and Kin'emon look up and see the dragon from earlier. Nami notes that it looks different, something about its eyes are strange. Brownbeard exclaims that the sedatives have worn off and it is no longer docile.
The scene changes to Luffy and Smoker who are heading to Caesar's lab, taking the shortest route. Inside the lab, Caesar is watching the events unfold, irritated that Vergo took out his test subjects. He orders Monet to block the passage B gate and let the gas in. She tells him that Vergo is still there. Clown says he does not care. Smoker and Luffy arrive at the door to the lab, Luffy out of breath from running. They both tell each other not to interfere. Luffy is fighting Caesar, and Smoker is fighting Vergo. Smoker rings the doorbell, and the door opens, revealing only Caesar in the lab. Luffy delivers a blindingly fast and powerful punch to Caesar's stomach, saying he will not get away this time.

As Caesar reels from the punch, Smoker remembers that before Law freed him, he ordered Smoker not to touch Caesar since he still has his heart. Smoker leaves to go find Vergo. As Luffy begins the second round of their battle, Caesar demands to know why Luffy is trying to capture him which he explains is part of Law's plan. Caesar admonishes him, warning Law cannot be trusted but Luffy retorts that's for him to decide. The two fight with Luffy landing a few solid hits. Caesar tries to suck the oxygen out of him but Luffy manages to get out of range of the powers and attack from a distance. Caesar reveals he has other methods of attack such as a flaming sword. Luffy manages to avoid him and prepares to finish him with a Jet Gatling. However Monet uses some kind of power to make a wall and protect Caesar. On her suggestion, Caesar abandons the battle and leaves to try to locate Law, though promises he has a way to make guinea pigs out of Luffy and his friends. Luffy tries to go after him but Monet gets in his way, claiming "Joker"(Doflamingo) will kill her if something happens to Caesar prompting Luffy to question Doflamigo's motivations.
At the passage connecting A and B buildings, Sanji and Vergo begin fighting, with Sanji landing a "Flange Strike" sending Vergo hurtling into a wall. Seemingly unfazed by the kick Vergo prepares for a counter, and Sanji remarks on Vergo "hardening like steel". Vergo attacks with one of Vergo's left kicks fracturing Sanji's right leg while Sanji blocks. Vergo attacks with another left kick as Sanji narrowly ducks avoiding the blow. As the two continue, Sanji yells for the Marines to run away to the B Building as the room begins to go into lockdown and the gas is let in from the A Building.
An emergency broadcast is heard from the D Building that Law has invaded the SAD production room much to the dismay of Caesar and Vergo, with the latter stating this was what Law was after ever since he became a Shichibukai and that whatever he is planning will make a mess of the New World.

Law walks into the SAD production room, looks up at the giant tank, and smiles. Meanwhile, the Marines are crushed that the shutter closed, trapping Sanji and Vergo in with the gas. Someone tries to make an announcement about Law over the PA system, but the Marines are distracted as Sanji has appeared above them carrying two unconscious Marine soldiers. Sanji is happy to see Tashigi and tells the other soldiers to shut up, saying he only likes it when girls cheer for him. He takes a step and winces in pain. A Marine asks if he hurt his leg, and Sanji tells him he only takes sympathy from women, but realizes it could have been worse if he had continued fighting Vergo. Sanji asks what happened to Vergo, as he suddenly took off. The Marines say that the man Sanji fought was an impostor and the real Vergo would never do something like that. They look to Tashigi for confirmation, and she gives an empty agreement.
Vergo is inside block B, moving quickly using Geppo. He is talking on a baby Den Den Mushi with someone, telling him that Law is after the SAD and how he has betrayed them. The person on the other end laughs, and the scene changes to Dressrosa, where Donquixote Doflamingo is laughing, saying that he thought of Law as a little brother and watched over him, calling the whole thing a shame. Doflamingo continues the conversation as a nearby window is destroyed. An angry and visibly upset woman is suddenly in front of him, her left arm a cannon that she is pointing at the Shichibukai. Doflamingo takes no notice and tells Vergo that the first thing he would do if he was Law, would be to destroy the SAD production room. An explosion then occurs, completely enveloping Doflamingo. He is seen lying in the rubble, his legs straight up in the air, still talking to Vergo as if nothing happened, saying that he would kill Caesar Clown, the man Law and the Straw Hats want to kidnap. This irritates the woman, who attacks Doflamingo with a scythe from her right arm as he dodges by leaning to the left and mentions that Caesar is the only one in the world who knows how to produce SAD. A man in a top hat and leather mask sitting nearby pulls out a pistol and casually shoots the woman who is trying to assault Doflamingo, who goes on to say that killing Caesar would be detrimental. A rotund, bearded man, wearing sunglasses and a unitard leans over the injured woman, whom he addresses as Baby 5, saying that slaughter that piece of scum where he stands. She angrily says that she will not forgive him this time and Doflamingo mentions that a series of misfortunes will occur. An old woman playing cards nearby asks Doflamingo what he will do about Law. The old man she is playing with says the choice should be obvious, as Law has turned traitor. Doflamingo orders Vergo to kill Law, with absolutely no mercy to the point that Law will wish he was never born. He then leans back slightly to dodge an axe from Baby 5. Vergo asks if he should take a photo of Law's body with the camera he bought in Dressrosa. Doflamingo tells him he never bought a camera, and Vergo says he will just cut off an ear as Doflamingo stops Baby 5 with his ability. Doflamingo then addresses Caesar and Monet. He warns them to watch out for Luffy, saying he has Haoshoku Haki and his potential might be greater than Law's. He goes on to say that he has a woman with him who is just a little too hot-blooded at the moment, and he is sending Baby 5 and Buffalo over to help them. When their business is finished, they will all return to Dressrosa.
Back in block B, Kin'emon and most of the Straw Hats are riding Brownbeard. Zoro comments how the little dragon is a lot more troublesome than the bigger one he fought earlier. Brownbeard panics, saying that since the whole area is on fire, the tanks full of hazardous chemicals could explode, which would destroy the walls and let the deadly gas in. Kin'emon becomes empowered, saying he cannot allow that dragon to exist. Brook then says that he will kill it, saying he cannot forgive the creature, no matter what. He remembered when the dragon was about to bite him, but then turned away looking disappointed. Usopp tells Brook there is no part of him the dragon could eat. Brook angrily fires back that bones have nutritional value too. Brook and Kin'emon then get into an argument over who will kill the dragon. While they are arguing, Nami is waving her hands, praying for the dragon to "fall for it". Brownbeard asks what she is doing, and Nami tells him she is doing a samurai impression, but Usopp corrects her saying she means ninja. The dragon flies in between three clouds and gets electrocuted in Nami's Thunder Trap. Kin'emon is surprised that the "breast band lady" can use ninjutsu, much to Nami's annoyance. Usopp then uses Green Star Rafflesia, causing the dragon to crash into it and be momentarily stunned. Robin then uses Quarento Fleur: Quatro Mano Hold to clip the dragon's wings. Kin'emon is surprised that the tengu (Usopp) and the escort (Robin) can also use ninjutsu, confusing all of their weapons and abilities for ninja techniques. As the dragon falls, it unleashes a breath of fire down on the group. Kin'emon jumps in front of Brook, calling him Sir Corpse, and cuts the flames with his sword. Brook and Kin'emon then use Gavotte Bond en Avant and Flaming Slash, respectively, at the same time on the dragon, effectively defeating it. Brook was then momentarily bothered by being called a corpse before remembering he is one. Everyone celebrates their victory as Brook and Kin'emon continue to stomp on the unconscious dragon. Brook then asks Kin'emon why he hates dragons, saying the samurai acted almost as if it were an act of revenge. Kin'emon tells him that revenge is pretty close. They then run after Brownbeard, realizing they were left behind. Nami then points up to a balcony above them. They see Chopper in Monster Point, fending off the giant children.
Nearby, in the second floor checkup room, a guard in a hazmat suit says a little girl is ok to go back to Biscuits Room and have her candy. She then asks where "that other kid" went, confusing the two men in the room. She says that a kid named Momonosuke went into the forbidden secret room and turned into a small dragon.

In the research room, the guard is shocked when hearing that a kid turned into a dragon and asks the little girl where she saw it and she says she peeked into the Secret Room and kept it to herself and is now worried for Momonosuke. The guard lies saying he is fine and that she does not need to worry about him and that he is eating and tells the little girl she must not tell anyone else what she saw.
In Caesar's lab, Luffy asks what Monet is doing and Monet makes a ten layer snow hut. Monet passes through the snow huts to see Luffy and asks how does it feel that ten layers of snow huts can not be easily broken. Luffy just says she is stalling for time and he will just break it in a jiffy and tells her to stop wasting his time. He says she can not beat him and she agrees stating she could not achieve victory in a fight with him, but tells him to not confuse victory with fighting ability. She then hugs him with her wings and Luffy notes how cold she is and her body are like ice and tells her to get off. Monet refuses stating he can no longer escape her hold and the coldness will sap away his strength and Luffy begins to become drowsy. She then points out that there is a bunch of snow build up around them and Luffy should lose consciousness soon and asks if it feels good. She tells him to just close his eyes slowly and relax, but Luffy manages to fight it off and use a Jet Spear to break free by breaking the ground. As Luffy begins to laugh, he ends up falling down below from destroying the floor. Monet comments on his hidden potential and tells him that falling from their location will have him end up in the ducts and into the garbage can deep inside the earth. She adds that unless he can fly, he will not ever get out and just comments to herself about how he just dug his own grave and says her farewells to him.
In front of the Biscuits Room, Chopper in his Monster Point continues to hold off the children, telling them that he knows it is painful but they must endure it and not take any more candy knowing they want to go home. He tells them he will not let them get into the Biscuits Room. He is holding a kid and accidentally hurts him and Chopper apologizes as he did not mean to hurt him, only for the other children to attack violently around Chopper with pipes calling him a monster and state this has nothing to do with him and wants the candy stating it is theirs. Chopper tells himself it is no use stating unless he fights back he can not stop them. As Chopper falls over the kids note an opening and run to the Biscuits Room and Chopper tries to stop them only for the Rumble Ball to wear off and him turn back to normal. They all rush to the room with the intent to get candy and start trampling Chopper and he can not move and luckily is saved by Nami as the other Straw Hats and Kin'emon arrive as Nami and Usopp ask what is happening while Kin'emon shouts out his son's name. Chopper starts tearing up glad they came stating that Caesar is trying to make them into big violent fighters and he can not lay a finger on them and says they have to find a way to stop them. As they make their way to the Biscuits Room, Robin uses her Mil Fleur: Gigantes Mano and makes giant hands to stop the children. Chopper then tells Nami about the girl Mocha trying to help him and says she is in danger and is protecting the candy in the room now. Usopp notes this is bad and they will not stop at nothing to get that candy now.
The kids say the hands are annoying and start attacking and biting Robin's hands, causing her to let go stating they are so violent and she can not stop them. The kids see Mocha and tell her to hand over the candy. Mocha, having regained her sanity, tells them to not eat it saying it is evil candy telling them to snap out of it that Chopper is trying to help them. She states if they do not listen they will not be able to go home and Chopper says it is useless and tells her to run. She starts running and the kids tell her to not eat the candy on her own and then she sees the exit closed with Monet in the front and asks her to help. Monet tells Mocha she can not keep the candy all to herself and should share with the rest. As Zoro notices her he asks who she is and Usopp points out she is the bird woman he saw before.
In the SAD Production room, Law is seen bleeding and breathing heavily fighting Vergo. He uses Shambles to get his heart back and at the moment he does Vergo appears in front of him and delivers a powerful kick to the face and sends Law back to the iron bars behind him and he spits out blood. Vergo catches Law's heart and starts squeezing it causing Law to scream out in pain. Law manages to stand up with difficulty and Vergo hardens his arm and starts brutally punching Law over and over again causing Law's hat to fly off and Law manages to grab Vergo and use Counter Shock on him sending a large electrical surge in his body, but the attack did little damage. Vergo easily recovers and delivers' Joker's message of "what a shame" to Law and Law just smirks back at Vergo as he had calculated how to retrieve his heart back from Caesar and that Vergo is his only miscalculation. Vergo says Law should call him Vergo-san and retorts to squeezing Law's heart even tighter, causing Law to scream in agony as Vergo tortures him. Vergo then mentions how he is in the middle of something and 'he' just had to show up, referring to Smoker who just arrived, and says it does not matter what it takes, he plans to seal Smoker's lips permanently. As Law seems to have lost consciousness, Smoker responds that it'd be better to end things quickly to dispose of trash looking down on him and calls Vergo pirate Vergo. The two then prepare to fight.

Smoker asks Vergo why the room they are in feels so eerie. Vergo tells him not to worry about it. Smoker tells Vergo he is not looking forward to telling the troops about their commanding officer's betrayal, since Vergo is deeply admired by his subordinates. Vergo tells Smoker he will not have to worry about his men. Smoker, angered by this, attacks Vergo with his jitte, asking what he did to the soldiers. Vergo blocks this attack with his bamboo cane. Vergo then teases Smoker for having compassion toward his subordinates, but tells him that since the truth is out, Smoker will have to die. Vergo's cane expands in the middle, and something shoots out of it like a blowgun. The shot causes a huge explosion. Smoker avoided the attack by becoming intangible and tries to attack Vergo from behind. Vergo leans back and narrowly avoids getting hit. He then tries to kick Smoker, but Smoker blocks it with his foot. He swings his cane but Smoker dodges it and moves around to Vergo's exposed side. Smoker then lands a devastating punch to Vergo's face, sending the vice admiral flying back and landing in a heap. Smoker tells Vergo that his tenure with the troops does not matter, because as base captain, Smoker is in charge of them when they leave the base, and challenges Vergo to try and harm any more of his troops.
In building B, Sanji and Tashigi are rushing through, having just gotten to the area the dragon set ablaze. Tashigi is confused by Sanji's behavior and desire to protect her, since they are supposed to be enemies. Sanji tells her that pirates are free spirits open to everyone. As the Marines are complimenting him for stopping the "fake" Vergo, one of the tanks in the room explodes, damaging the wall, and making a hole to allow Shinokuni in. Another tank explodes on the other side of the room, causing the same result. The injured soldiers, as well as the soldiers carrying them, fall victim to the gas. Tashigi can not believe that it would happen in a room as spacious as the one they are in. Sanji tells her to run as he runs toward the gas. She tries to argue, but Sanji just tells her to go.
In a secret room on the second floor of section R, Caesar is watching these events on a monitor, pleased that the dragon's rampage let the gas in, and satisfied that his demonstration will be a success. He tells a subordinate to close the gates to sections C and D. When asked by a subordinate about section R, Caesar tells him the plan is to lead the pirates and soldiers into the corridor and then flood it with gas from C and D, leaving them with nowhere to run. He goes on to say how he does not like the room he is in, but he really had no choice in the matter. There is a huge group of subordinates in front of him, and they ask why he is in Vegapunk's old room, considering the grudge he has against him. One of the subordinates says that Vegapunk is just as much an enemy as the ones outside, since he caused the incident four years ago. Caesar tells them they are vital to his forces and does not want any collateral damage, causing all of them to become emotional. He then goes over his plan. Once the shutters to sections C and D are closed, all areas will be closed off, leaving section R the only possible path. That way, all his enemies will be in the same place at once. The ventilation shaft in that room is connected to the outside, so letting the gas in will be easy, and will leave them with nowhere to run. Their deaths will then be broadcasted to the brokers. One of his subordinates asks if Caesar created the gas, since it looks exactly like the gas from Vegapunk's failed experiment four years ago. Caesar begins to shed tears, saying the war going on in science makes his heart ache. He tells them that he tried to stop Vegapunk from doing the experiment, since it would be dangerous for the people on the island. The accident happened anyway, and Vegapunk is still haled as the best scientist in the world. He asks if it is right for someone who caused so much pain to hold that title. His subordinates are deeply moved. Caesar tells them that he made the gas against his better judgment to prove that he is the best scientist in the world. He ends his diatribe by saying that once he is acknowledged by the Marines, he will be able to use his scientific genius for the good of the world. Moved by his emotional speech, his subordinates begin to cheer.
Caesar giggles as he flashes back to what really happened on that day four years ago. He was being ordered to cease the experiment, since it would be bad for the people on the island, contradicting what he told his subordinates. Caesar snaps back, saying he is trying to make ways to kill pirates, but the Marines argue that they cannot hurt innocent civilians. Caesar laughs, calling them a necessary sacrifice, saying world peace is the calm that comes after the storm. He then calls Sengoku too soft, and reasoned that Akainu would want his weapon. He then laughs, saying he heard Vegapunk's human enlargement experiment failed again. He tells the Marines that the only way to do it is to kidnap children who are still growing and put them through various treatments. Later, he is yelling at Vegapunk, asking him what he is doing. Vegapunk tells him that they are relieving Caesar of his post in the research team. His actions have become too reckless. Caesar yells not to mess with him, and slams a button on a console, causing the lab to explode in a huge mushroom cloud.
The gates connecting area B to areas C and D have now been shut. In the basement, Luffy asks something if it just spoke. Luffy is staring at a dragon and asks what it is. The dragon responds by asking Luffy who he is.

In the scrap heap beneath C Building, the small dragon introduces himself to Luffy as Momonosuke. Luffy thinks that he has heard the name before, but Momonosuke yells at him for drooling. Momonosuke continues, stating that he is not food and would rather eat than be eaten. Luffy grabs Momonosuke's horns, looking for a person stuck to his neck communicating by farts, but soon realizes that Momonosuke (which Luffy thinks is an eel) is the one talking. Momonosuke chides Luffy for drooling, but his own stomach then rumbles. Luffy says that Momonosuke is just as hungry as he is, but the dragon says that a warrior does not go hungry from just ten days without food. Luffy is stunned that he has been without food for ten days, and when Momonosuke asks his name, Luffy introduces himself and says that he is going to be the next Pirate King. Momonosuke is surprised, as he had thought that pirates were hulking brutes, unlike Luffy. Momonosuke remarks that Luffy is also an outsider, and says that the facility is for diseased children.
Momonosuke says that he does not know much about the island, and arrived merely when he sneaked onto a boat. Momonosuke says that even though he distanced himself from the other children, they were nice to him, offering him candy. The children met Caesar Clown, and when asked his name, Momonosuke refused to give one. After declining candy for some time, he managed to escape, hungry and exhausted. He found a Devil Fruit and ate it, but was caught by one of the children. She tells him that they are not allowed to be in that room, but Momonosuke says that he needs to escape the facility. The girl says that they all want to go home, but that being in the Biscuit Room is not all bad. Suddenly, some of Caesar's men arrive, and the girl runs away. Momonosuke, however, transforms into a dragon before their eyes and to his confusion. He manages to escape, and after he is gone, the soldiers remark that the fruit that Momonosuke ate was Vegapunk's failed artificial Devil Fruit.
To wrap up his story, Momonosuke tells Luffy that he is human. Luffy says that he ate a Devil Fruit, and asks Momonosuke why he does not simply transform back into a human. Momonosuke is surprised that he can turn back, and asks Luffy how to do so. Luffy brushes off this question, saying that he is not a Zoan, and remarks that the hole he fell through is a long way away. Momonosuke says that he also wants to leave since he overheard Caesar saying that all of the children will be dead in five years if the experiment continues. Momonosuke continues, saying that he would have warned the children but instead fell into the hole, trapping himself. This infuriates Luffy, who says that he is going to climb the walls along with Momonosuke. The dragon is relieved, but Luffy tells him to get a hold of himself. This makes Momonosuke see a hallucination of Donquixote Doflamingo. This scares the dragon so much that he starts to fly, with Luffy hanging on to him.
Meanwhile, in B Building, Usopp, Brook, and Kin'emon have broken off from the rest of the group to look for Seastone handcuffs at Robin's request. Brook uses his Yomi Yomi no Mi abilities to look behind walls. Usopp is worried about Nami and the rest of the group because he is not there to protect them. However he feels that they will be fine because Zoro is with them. In the SAD production room in D Building, Law looks on while Smoker and Vergo clash. In B Building, Tashigi and the G-5 Marines are fleeing the poisonous gas with help from Sanji, who is kicking them along.
On the third floor of Building B, Monet has created a blizzard with her Devil Fruit abilities while Mocha tries to escape from the kids who want their candy. Robin tries to help, but is stabbed by Monet. Zoro steps in, saying that he will handle the enemy because she is a Logia user. As of now, there are twenty minutes left until the gas fills B Building completely.

In the Biscuit Room on the third floor of the lab on Punk Hazard, Zoro and Monet are fighting. Chopper and Nami ask Robin, who had been attacked by Monet, if she is okay. Robin says that she is fine, and that the children need to be stopped. Chopper tells Nami to hurry, as the children are leaving and he had promised Mocha that he would protect her.
Mocha tries to run, but the rest of the children pursue her, shouting for the candy. She yells that Chopper told her what type of candy she has, and why they cannot be eaten. As she runs, she remembers meeting Sind, who said that they would be better within a year. She also remembers meeting Caesar Clown, who had told her that he had lost a son to a disease and did not want it to happen to anyone else. Caesar had then introduced her to Uzu, Doran, and Konbu, all of whom were nice to her. Monet had given them candy and introduced them to more children, making Mocha realize that even her acting was a lie.
Back in the Biscuit Room, Chopper, Robin, and Nami start to leave when Zoro charges after them. The three are surprised, but Zoro then blocks Monet's attack aimed at Nami. Zoro berates his opponent for going after unarmed targets, but Nami creates a Heat Ball and strikes Monet's wing, inflicting damage. Nami turns to run, but Monet dives into the snow and creates a Snow Fence with her Devil Fruit powers. Monet then uses snow to surround Nami, weakening her. Monet then appears as a snow monster and tries to attack Chopper, but Nami moves him out of the way. Robin forces Monet away with a Quatro Mano: Spank, and Monet reforms, saying that the children are important test subjects she must protect. She continues, asking which one of them coerced the children into rebelling, to which Chopper responds by saying that they left by free will. Zoro slashes a hole in the wall and orders them to leave, so Nami, Chopper, and Robin head out after the children. Monet tells Zoro that it is typical of pirates to steal the fruits of their labor before attacking Zoro with her wings. Monet comments that Zoro has done nothing but block since the beginning of the fight, and that this means that she might be able to win.
Just then, the G-5 Marines, led by Sanji run in, making Monet angry that they are trying to steal the children. Zoro tells the group to head after Robin, Nami, and Chopper, but Sanji notices Monet and falls over. The Marines begin to compliment Monet, who blushes but then attacks and bites one of the Marines. The Marines fire, but as a Logia user, she is unaffected. Tashigi then appears and slashes Monet's wing. Monet retreats, commenting on Tashigi's Haki as the Marines cheer. Tashigi tells the Marines to go ahead, saying that she is needed to fight Monet.

Sanji assures the G-5 men that, while he will not hurt women, Zoro is an entirely different story, and that Tashigi and he will be fine as they continue to look for the kids. This boosts the Marines' morale that they will get praised by Tashigi, Nami, and Robin if they accomplish their goal.
Meanwhile, Zoro gets mad at Tashigi, claiming that she is getting in his way but Tashigi claims that, in addition to keep Monet from going after her subordinates, she is staying behind because Zoro will not cut a woman basing her assertion on their first duel back in Loguetown. Zoro denies it but claims since Tashigi wants to fight Monet, sits down and permits Tashigi to have the battle. Thinking she assumed Zoro's "weakness", Monet becomes conceited and attacks Tashigi with a barrage of snow attacks. She eventually manages to wound Tashigi with a bite to the shoulder. However, Tashigi endures it because she knows she will lose her arm if she pulls back.
Just when Monet is about to finish her, Zoro cuts Monet on the cheek with Busoshoku Haki, causing her to let go of Tashigi. He is chiding Tashigi for being too slow as he approaches Monet menacingly. Admitting that there are things he would rather not cut, he then asks if she has ever met a wild animal that is guaranteed not to bite. Monet realizes he actually is going to attack her but is paralyzed with fear because of this. Zoro cuts her in half but does not use Haki, thus she survives thanks to her Logia intangibility. He then asks if the two women are satisfied. However, Monet is still too terrified to pull herself back together properly. One half of Monet's body manages to get up and attempts to stab Zoro in the back. Tashigi then intervenes and finishes her off, finally defeating the snow harpy.

The gas begins to seep in and, due to her wounds, Zoro is forced to carry Tashigi to catch up with the others, to which Tashigi is outraged at. She then tells Zoro to let her off when they reach her subordinates. However, she is distracted by Zoro's sword, Shusui, and gets excited at seeing it, but Zoro is annoyed at it and tells her to stop it.
Meanwhile, Chopper, Nami, and Robin are doing their best to keep the berserk children from catching up to Mocha by having Chopper sedate them one at a time. Despite their efforts, Mocha finds herself cornered by a group of children who managed to get around the Straw Hat Pirates and the children attempt to forcibly get the candy from Mocha. Having no choice, Mocha puts the entire batch of candy in her mouth. Despite Chopper's pleas, she swallows the entire contents. The story goes into a flashback a few moments earlier as Chopper and Mocha were trying to barricade the door to the Biscuits Room.
Chopper explains to Mocha of Caesar's deception and using the kids for his experiments and how if Caesar continues to use them, the children will die before they reach adulthood. Mocha remembers her friends promising to each other that when they get older, they will reunite and go on an adventure. The gravity of the situation becomes clear to Mocha, but Chopper promises that he and the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates will save her. Mocha vows not to let any of the kids get the candy and runs off to guard the room just as the children burst in. Back in the present, Mocha begins coughing up blood due to the serious overdose of the drug. The other children stop upon seeing her condition and are unsure what to do now. As Chopper, Nami and Robin rush to Mocha, Sanji and the G-5 Marines finally arrive and begin subduing and sedating the kids. The Marines have Mocha moved to an examination room, to which Chopper is grateful for, complimenting Mocha on her bravery and hoping that he can save her.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Momonosuke emerge from a garbage chute in front of some of Caesar's men, with Momonosuke passed out and now being carried by Luffy. Luffy grabs one of the guards and demands to know where Caesar is. The guard tells Luffy that Caesar is in Building R, to which Luffy immediately sets off for Caesar's location.

Brownbeard is shown on the first floor of Building R, screaming at the door stating that he will tell his men Caesar's true colors. Caesar decides to go down to the first floor in order to deal with him. Brownbeard asks Caesar to give him back his men, as Caesar asks what is wrong. A flashback occurs, showing that Caesar left Brownbeard's men to die outside. Caesar states he has no idea where they are. Caesar's men begin to question Brownbeard about what he is doing, so he then reveals to them that Caesar called them guinea pigs for his experiment. However, before he is able to do this, Caesar injects him with a muscle relaxant, preventing Brownbeard from moving and properly pronouncing "guinea pig", confusing the subordinates. Caesar then quietly reveals to Brownbeard that he abandoned his men outside, and that he, their savior, was the one who caused the explosion that almost paralyzed everyone four years ago. Brownbeard then attempts to attack Caesar, but Caesar dodges and orders his men to shoot him.
Luffy suddenly enters the room and grazes Caesar with an Elephant Gun. Luffy then stands in front of Brownbeard in order to protect him, and remembers the kind words Brownbeard said about Caesar before. Caesar then orders his men to go back to the second floor to begin the preparations, and Momonosuke recognizes Caesar as the one who experimented on the children. Luffy then asks Caesar what Punk Hazard really is, and Caesar reveals it to be the home of the scientific underworld, where experiments take place, people die, and nobody is any the wiser. He tells Luffy that he knows nothing of the island and explains to him how meaningless everything he has done so far has been, and reveals that the SAD is actually used by Doflamingo to make artificial Zoan Devil Fruits called Smiles. He tells Luffy that he heard that one of the Four Emperors was using these fruits in order to build a mighty crew. Caesar then tells Luffy that he is protected by these strong people like Doflamingo, and that a person of his level will not be able to take them on at all. Then, out of anger, Luffy punches Caesar, telling him that he has taken on guys like that many times.

Luffy continues his fight with Caesar Clown after punching him and leaving a deep imprint on his face. Caesar then tries again to flaunt his protection under Doflamingo in order to intimidate Luffy, and immediately attacks Luffy with an attack called Gastille which is recognized by one of the subordinates who states that it is capable of melting steel, but Luffy dodges it and delivers another punch to Caesar's face.
With five minutes left until Shinokuni fills up building B, the rest of the Straw Hats, as well as their allies, are hurrying toward building R, where the escape route off the island is located. Sanji, Nami and Robin as well as the G-5 marines and the now sober children are rushing together towards Building R. Zoro and Tashigi are far behind because of Zoro's bad sense of direction. Only Kin'emon and Brook are going the opposite direction towards the gas because Kin'emon had heard that his son had got turned into a dragon and immediately thought that dragon he slew was his son. Brook tries to stop him but gets dragged along instead. Usopp is the first to arrive in Building R while searching for seastone hand cuffs but ends up in the secret room above the first floor, where the gas trap was prepared.
In the SAD room, Vergo was berating Smoker for using his smoke form against him who is more than capable of handling devil fruit users, and uses his Haki imbued Bamboo stick to injure Smoker, destroying his jitte. However, Smoker was really just distracting Vergo in order to allow Law to regain his heart. With Trafalgar Law's heart back where it belongs, Law is ready to finish his fight. Smoker, who was barely conscious tells Law to finish it quick because it shames him to be indebted to a pirate. Law then calls out to "Joker" who was monitoring the battle with a Den-Den Mushi, and tells him that once Vergo is defeated and Caesar captured, all the SAD at his disposal will be gone and he will lose his position as king of the underground. Doflamingo then laughs, replying that Law's fear of Vergo when he becomes very angry is still there, and that his Haki protects his whole body so that not even Law's power can hope to cut him. Law then proves Doflamingo wrong by cutting a Haki-armored Vergo in half, along with the SAD chamber and the mountain it was built in. Law then states that Whitebeard only ended the last era and that the marines never challenged any of the big name pirates recently because they were preparing a new battle force and that the war at Marineford was really just a prelude to something else. Law continues by saying that, like Doflamingo had said, a new unstoppable wave always marks the beginning of a "new era of great ones", and that he had broken the gears of the cycle so no one, not even Doflamingo can turn them back.

The chapter opens by showing the top half of the bisected building falling back down as some gas begins to leak in. The giant children are scared at first, but Sanji convinces them to keep running. The G-5 Marines soon spot Zoro approaching carrying Tashigi while she demands he put her down. Upon seeing the Marines she realizes he has gone the wrong way. Sanji is furious that Zoro picked her up, while Nami tries to make him turn back, and Robin encourages the children to move faster.
Meanwhile, Chopper's medical room starts to collapse due to Law's attack, and the G-5 medics carry both him and Mocha away, while he continues to monitor her condition.
In the SAD production room, Vergo has been completely dismembered by Law, and his body parts are attached to a railing. He calls Law's plan a messed up attempt at revenge, and taunts Law saying that he will regret it, and cannot replace Doflamingo with power alone. He then asks Smoker to agree with him, but Smoker remains silent, while Law cuts Vergo's head in half one last time, and states that Vergo does not need to worry about him but his own self since the room will soon be completely destroyed, before leaving.
Meanwhile, Caesar realizes his plan is falling apart, and becomes increasingly enraged. He orders his men in the secret room to open the air vents, letting Shinokuni flood the room, and when they argue that there are over a hundred men under Caesar's command left in the room that will be killed, he snaps at them, referring to them as guinea pigs and scum, and that since nobody cares he can keep killing and replacing them as many times as he wants. His remaining minions are shocked into silence by this, to the extent that the ones previously fighting Usopp outright ignore him while he steps back to hide.
Caesar's puzzled reaction to their shock convinces some of his men that he is bluffing, and did not actually intend to hurt them, and, believing it to be a complex strategy, open the vents as ordered. As the gas fills the room, Caesar sucks it into himself, and begins to grow huge, before taking on a more demonic form. Gloating about his new found might, he promptly murders all of his men remaining in the room as a show of strength, enraging Luffy. He then states that some peaceful countries have expressed an interest in his genocide weapons, and that he plans on supplying everyone, ultimately becoming the ruler of a war-torn "land of the dead". Luffy appears to flee, telling Momonosuke to protect Brownbeard.
In the secret room, Caesar's remaining forces are horrified by his casual murder of their allies, and realize he truly does not care about them. Usopp then interrupts, asking if he can use the control panel to help his friends and allies escape. Caesar's subordinates point out that Luffy has abandoned him, watching him run down the corridor on the monitors. Usopp counters that Luffy would find things easier if he did, but that was not in his nature. As he speaks, Luffy, still enraged, stops and turns around to face Caesar again. As Usopp continues to talk about Luffy's positive characteristics, his captain continues by blowing air into both his arms, expanding both of them to activate Gear 3. He then begins to charge back down the corridor towards Caesar, both his arms stretching out behind him. Usopp states that Caesar is the type of person Luffy hates the most, and that Luffy won't forgive him. The chapter ends as Luffy infuses Haki into both of his stretched arms, and jumps towards Caesar, entering a pose similar to that of his Gomu Gomu no Gigant Bazooka attack, while stating that he does not want to see Caesar's face anymore.

Luffy is getting ready to hit Caesar with an all out attack. Caesar is begging for mercy, even offering Luffy a job in his organization. Luffy hits Caesar square in the stomach with Gomu Gomu no Grizzly Magnum, knocking him through the gate to the R-66 corridor and into the darkness beyond. Throughout the New World, brokers are watching with mixed reactions. One calls it a joke, another gets mad at Caesar. Tamago decides it would be a good idea to inform Big Mom about what transpired. Another broker declares that Joker is going to make his move. One broker tells someone to inform someone named "Jack", while the person he is talking to states things are going to get bad. Another broker points out that there's an alliance and orders someone to report to the New World, saying it is not just an issue for the underworld anymore. Killer simply watches pensively.
On the second floor of building B, Chopper and the G-5 medical squad are carrying Mocha. Usopp talks to him over the intercom. He tells Chopper to take the stairs on his right and to close the gates to building R. Brook runs after Chopper, carrying a person encased in Shinokuni. Brook cries that Kin'emon was hit by the gas and died. He explains they were checking the testing rooms for any children left in them, and a girl told Kin'emon that his son turned into a dragon. Kin'emon ran back in an effort to find his son, thinking he had cut him earlier, and fell victim to the gas. Meanwhile, Usopp disposes of a group of Caesar's subordinates. Nami runs into building R and is happy to see Luffy. She asks if Brownbeard is ok, and Luffy says he is before quickly correcting himself. Momonosuke is relieved to see that the children are safe, and Luffy smiles, saying he told him his friends would pull through. Sanji, Zoro, Robin, and the children with them are following close behind Nami. Robin and Zoro are worried that Chopper won't make it to the building in time. Everyone is now convening in building R.
Smoker asks Law if he needs something. Law tells him that that is a rail car used to haul SAD. Everyone needs to get on it to escape. Luffy is happy to see Law, and the Marines are overjoyed to see Smoker. Law asks where Caesar is, and Luffy points down the dark corridor. Law gets angry, saying the plan was to kidnap him. Luffy tells him about his total indifference, which bothers Law even more.
Earlier, off the coast of Punk Hazard, Baby 5 and Buffalo are headed to the island. Baby 5 vows to kill Joker when she returns, along with the rest of the town for what he did to her fiance. An infobox introduces her and says she ate the Buki Buki no Mi. She goes on to say that this is the eighth time Doflamingo has killed the man she loved, destroying eight towns in the process. She wonders why he wants her to be miserable. Buffalo, the giant man she is riding on, says it is Doflamingo's way of being protective like a big brother. Buffalo's infobox says that he ate the Guru Guru no Mi. He goes on to say that she needs to learn to say "no" more often. She has a flashback to a sloppy-looking man giving her a flower, calling it love at first sight and asking her to marry him. Baby 5 tells Buffalo that no one can say no to a marriage proposal. Buffalo tells her she gets attached too easily, citing the fact that she reads fifty different newspapers, is too quick to give out money, and is just as quick to spend it. He asks her how much debt she is in. Baby 5 responds that she only owes 98,000,000 and tells Buffalo to drop the issue, instead Buffalo asks to borrow another 2,000,000. He tells her he wants to go to the casino when they return. Baby 5 tells him he can have it as soon as they finish the mission. As she says this, Punk Hazard appears below them.
Baby 5 wonders if the gas will go away if she fires one of her weapons. Buffalo tells her to jump off and that he will take care of it. She does so and he uses his rotating abilities to act as a fan and dispel the gas, calling it Squall Matasaburo. Dispelling the gas uncovers the tanker ship, and they decide to wait there for Monet, Caesar, and Vergo when all of a sudden, the tanker explodes. At first they thought it blew up, but then they realize something hit it. They are even more surprised when that something turned out to be Caesar Clown. Buffalo calls Doflamingo to report it. Doflamingo is surprised at first, but then smiles. He orders Buffalo to recover Caesar and return to Dressrosa immediately. Buffalo wonders about Monet and Vergo, but Baby 5 tells him Joker must have his reasons. Doflamingo is laughing under his breath, saying that with Caesar again in his custody, he can continue to make SAD. While going to collect Caesar, Baby 5 sees someone on the deck of the tanker. Buffalo tells her anyone surviving the gas was an impossibility. To their surprise, the robotic General Franky emerges from the rubble instead, and looks curiously at the "bird" heading toward him.

Baby 5 and Buffalo are attacked by Franky Shogun by surprise. Baby 5 wonders if it is a Pacifista shooting at them because of the resemblance and fires her gatling gun at him. To her surprise, it doesn't inflict a single scratch on Franky Shogun which Franky indicates with his joke technique "General OK" by simply saying the name of the technique. Franky performs his "General Shield Boomerang" by removing one of his shoulder pads and throwing it at them. Baby 5 transforms herself into a sword with Buffalo holding her feet as a handle. With his Devil Fruit powers, he spins himself at blinding speed, which repels the shield. Baby 5 then turns into a missile, again, with Buffalo holding her feet, and hurls her at Franky. Franky tries to shoot her with his gatling gun which she dodges before the missile explodes.
The defeated Caesar Clown wakes up, confused and unable to move. He has a flashback of receiving Smoker's heart from Law and remembers he still has his heart, saying that he will take Smoker with him.
In the lab, Law and the others are still waiting for the Straw Hats to come on board. Luffy says that they will not budge until every member of the Straw Hats has arrived. Nami asks about Franky, with Sanji responding about him sending the Sunny out to sea. Then, Brook, Chopper, Mocha and the G-5 Marines are seen running with Shinokuni right behind them, with the closing gate in front of them in the corridor between Block R and B. They make it through just in time and they all finally get on the cart. Brook asks what to do with the petrified Kin'emon, which shocks Momonosuke who is still in his dragon form.
Meanwhile, Monet has called Joker, to his surprise, as he thought she was incapacitated. He tells Monet that there is a weapon in the research lab, the one that destroyed the other two research labs four years ago. He tells her to activate the switch, which will kill everyone on the island except Caesar. Monet interrupts him, saying that was her intention all along. Joker apologizes, and tells her to bring it all down with her.

After Baby 5's attack, Franky Shogun is seen lying on the deck surrounded by flames. Baby 5 reforms through her ability after her Missile Girl attack. Buffalo asks if she needs some weapons he picked up, although comments how she is already a weapon herself. Baby 5 says that they are blessed but the weapons were bought because she felt "needed", due to her personality. Franky Shogun punches her from behind but she jumps out of the way and transforms into a revolver. Frank takes the full blast but laughs it off, condescendingly saying that it would not work.
On the tanker, Caesar realizes that Baby 5 and Buffalo are there to save him while still holding Smoker's heart.
In the SAD production room, Vergo is seen talking to Doflamingo through a Den Den Mushi, where the latter apologizes to the vice admiral for what is to come. He tells Vergo that he was his longest companion and thanks him for his hard work and devotion. Even in pieces, Vergo smiles.
In the SAD transport corridor, Momonosuke is still in shock and in grief over his father's state. Brook mistakes him for an eel. The group then hears an explosion, which Law says came from the SAD production room. Rocks begin to fall down from the ceiling. Law tells them that the corridor is a tunnel built into the mountain and if it were to collapse, all the occupants would be buried alive. Coincidentally, the way in front of them is blocked. However, Zoro simply clears the path with ease.
Monet is still in building C, ready to set off the deadly gas explosion with the button. A series of frames shows scenes such as the children crying, Sanji kicking away a rock and Doflamingo sitting in his room at Dressrosa. Monet says goodbye in her mind to the Shichibukai, saying that he will be the next Pirate King.
Caesar then prepares to kill Smoker, using a sharp object to pierce his heart. He laughs and says "Die, Smoker!" However, Smoker is shown to be perfectly fine while Monet collapses with blood flowing out of her mouth. She pulls up her top to reveal a cube-shaped hole in her chest. Doflamingo realizes something is wrong and orders her to answer him, but Monet collapses and dies from being stabbed in the heart by Caesar.
On the cart, the children urge it to move forward. Smoker asks Law why Caesar thought he had Smoker's heart. Law has a flashback to the moment when Caesar outlines the bonds of their contract - Law must give his heart and Caesar would give Monet's heart to him. After fighting Smoker, Law had two hearts in his hands, Smoker's and Monet's. Unknown to Caesar, Law had returned Monet's heart. He explains this to Smoker, saying that Caesar simply misunderstood and Law "kindly gave back the heart of the secretary, Monet". He underlines this action with his belief that those who do good will get good things in return. Law then calmly asks if anyone can produce wind as there would be gas in the air when they exit. The Marines are surprised, claiming that no one has such an ability. However, Nami tells them that she can, leaving the Marines even more surprised. Someone else shouts that the exit is coming up.
On Dressrosa, a young girl is seen looking for Doflamingo. She asks an old man about his whereabouts, who replies that he should be on the fourth floor. The girl says that he was not, and the window was wide open. The old man seems calm but dark as he is states that he has no idea and that he went alone again.
Somewhere over the sea, Doflamingo is running in midair. He is talking to Baby 5 and Buffalo, who are telling him that they are having a problem with a metal guard. Doflamingo seems uninterested, telling them to finish it off and noting that there was no big explosion. Doflamingo then states that he is coming to Punk Hazard.

Buffalo is surprised by how strong the General Franky is. He then charges at Franky, saying that no one has ever been able to dodge the next attack. Using his powers, he spins Baby 5 on one of his chains, who in turn uses Sickle Girl, and then slams her into General Franky's left arm, impaling it. Franky laughs and says he will give them credit, but only for breaking through the robot's armor, and compares the pair to a praying mantis taking on a warship. He then grabs Baby 5 and yanks on the chain, causing Buffalo to lose his balance and hurl forward. He then declares that the Gaon Cannon has set foot on land, and shoots them with General Franky's most powerful attack, General Cannon. As Buffalo and Baby 5 are reeling from the attack, they wonder why someone like this would try to impede them taking Caesar. Franky then looks down from the tanker and sees Caesar lying there, and wonders how the scientist got there. Buffalo stands up, declaring that he is not going down that easily, saying that such a defeat would drag Joker's name through the mud. Baby 5 then declares that they will be taking Caesar with them, no matter what it takes. Franky then asks them if he is correct in concluding that they want Caesar.
Back in R-66, the exit is in sight. Usopp begs Nami to conjure up some wind, so they will not die. Everyone cheers as they exit. Franky is happy to see that everyone made it out. Baby 5 and Buffalo are seen surprised by their sudden arrival. Luffy, Usopp, Chopper, and the rest of the boys in the cart are very excited to see the robot, while Nami, Robin, Tashigi, and the rest of the girls are visibly unimpressed. Law is surprised to see Buffalo and Baby 5, who asks him if he is really going to defy Joker, who has been saving the heart seat for him. Luffy asks if those two are Law's friends, and Law tells him no. Realizing their sudden disadvantage, Buffalo and Baby 5 grab Caesar and start to fly away. Usopp tells everyone to leave the escaping pair to him. Law is about to use his powers and tries to argue, but Luffy cuts him off, telling him that Usopp has things under control, and Zoro tells him not to underestimate Usopp. Law argues, saying that if they get away, the plan will be ruined. Nami cuts him off again, saying that if they are going to have an alliance, then Law needs to trust them more, adding that she needs to do a little fighting after doing nothing but running. Usopp and Nami then declare that they will take care of the far away enemies with their backs turned, and Zoro tells them to hurry up. Usopp then orders his Bakun Grass to grow into his Kuro Kabuto, which then starts eating the nearby rubble and twisted metal. Buffalo tells Baby 5 to watch the rear, since he cannot while flying. While Baby 5 vows to defend them with her life, a giant weather egg, called Lightning-chan by Nami, flies over them and releases a huge storm cloud. Baby 5 looks at the cloud worriedly while Nami declares they will not get away. She then attacks them with Thunder Breed Tempo, landing a direct hit.
As they start falling, Buffalo calls to Baby 5 and realizes she is unconscious. Usopp then attacks them with Killer Shooting Star Rush, shooting several pieces of stone from the rubble at them. Caesar tells Buffalo that, since he cannot move, he must protect him and Buffalo declares that he will complete a mission for the Donquixote family as they are pelted with rubble. As the two go down, Caesar manages to stay airborne as the shots pass through him. He then decides he  will go to Dressrosa by himself. Usopp tells him that escaping is useless, since the last shot was seastone handcuffs. The cuffs catch Caesar around the neck. Everyone cheers as Usopp proudly declares that he will fight anyone whose back is turned. As the three fall into the ocean, Law declares the first step  of his plan is complete and Luffy asks Law what he thought about his crew's abilities.
Somewhere on the sea, a shadowy figure has overslept, and is wondering how to get to Punk Hazard.

The Marines draw a line to separate themselves from the pirates, saying they could have the tanker, but warning them not to cross the line. Smoker asks the soldiers why they went that far, since the order was just not to mingle with them. The soldier responds that they must be thorough, while another makes an exception for the medical squad. Smoker tells them that he got through to the G-5 base, and a ship is on its way. Luffy is talking with Brownbeard, who has opted to turn himself in since the Marines would cure him of the poisons and other chemicals Caesar put into his body. Luffy says it is too bad, since they had just become friends. The Marines yell at Luffy for crossing the line they made, and Luffy tells them they just made up that rule while next to him. Meanwhile, Sanji and Brook are laying bricks for a barbecue pit. Brownbeard goes on to say that he no longer has any comrades, and that being in jail is better than being Caesar's guinea pig.
Just then, Chopper shouts "Murderer!". Franky tells him to stop, almost dropping the mast he is lifting. He then continues to help the Marines repair the tanker's damaged mast. He adds that they should have told him that the tanker was important so he could have moved his fight from earlier away from it and not have to repair it like he is now. Chopper tells Luffy to stop him, continuing to yell about a murderer, saying he means Law. Brook is also shouting, much to the annoyance of Luffy and Sanji. Brook tells them that he broke Kin'emon, feeling remorse despite the samurai already being dead. Kin'emon's shell begins to crack, revealing the samurai inside. Luffy, Sanji, and Brook all scream at him in shock, and Kin'emon screams right back at them. Sanji kicks him angrily, asking how he could possibly be alive. When Brook calls Sanji's actions uncalled for, the chef responds that the samurai deserved for not being dead like he was supposed to be. Father and son are reunited at last, with Momonosuke jumping into his father's arms. Luffy is somewhat surprised to see the boy, and not the dragon he had come to know. For whatever reason, Momonosuke is missing his clothes, but is soon given an outfit much like his father's as well as a proper introduction as a child from Wano. Shortly after their reunion, Momonosuke faints, apparently from starvation.
Chopper is yelling for Law to come outside, demanding to know what he was doing with the children in the infirmary. Law tells him to mind his own business, as he is now finished with taking them to pieces. This answer frightens Chopper to no end, and he runs into the infirmary, with Law adding that he had to methodically treat them for all the chemicals they were exposed to. Inside the infirmary, Chopper is met with enthusiastic greetings from all the children. They tell him that the man in the fluffy hat (Law) took all of the drugs and chemicals from their bodies and they are all completely cured. They said that being in pieces was cool but scary. The only one who has not woken up yet is Mocha. As the facts start falling into place, the children realize their "master" was a bad person and that Mocha was partly responsible for saving them. One child says his memory of the events is still fuzzy, but that Mocha collapsed after coughing up blood. Another child asks if Mocha will be alright. Chopper reassures her that Mocha will be fine and everyone will be going home. They then ask to see Nami, calling her the orange lady, remembering her initial promise to save them. Just as they say this, a woman comes through the doorway. It is revealed to be Tashigi, and she tells the children that they are now under the protection and supervision of the Marines, much to their disappointment. They also ask to see the robot (Franky) and rubber man (Luffy).
Outside, Usopp is catching a whiff of what Sanji is cooking, and is looking forward to eating. He then turns to Nami and asks her if she was the one who asked the Marines to take care of the children. She tells him yes. As a pirate, she says that saving people is not her strong suit. Usopp agrees, saying they would just get charged with kidnapping anyway. Nami agrees, remembering Tashigi tearfully asking her to leave the children in her care, and adds that she is terrible at dealing with female Marines, as Tashigi is seen trying to write down the names of several disgruntled children. Nami goes on to say that she can't deal with female Marines because she feels too safe around them, since they remind her of her mother, Usopp remembering that her mother was a Marine. She adds that being looked after by a strong Marine woman is the best thing for them and Usopp agrees. Nami calls him a pushover and Usopp says she is one to talk.
Sanji has just finished preparing a huge pot of sea pork stew, one of the 99 recipes of Newkama Kenpo. He pours a bowl and serves it to Momonosuke; having heard that the boy had not eaten in days. Sanji advises him to start slowly eating the stew, which is just one of the many dishes presented to him. However, Momonosuke's samurai pride gets the better of him, and he declares that he is not hungry. He is about to throw away the stew when Sanji grabs him by the collar, saying he will not forgive anyone who wastes food, even a child. They are interrupted by Kin'emon, who has started eating, visibly in awe by how good the food is. He tells Momonosuke it is safe to eat and to not be shy about it, saying the person who made it can be completely trusted and there is nothing to worry about. Momonosuke starts eating, tears pouring down his face as he does so. Luffy thinks the food tastes so good that it made Momonosuke cry, but Sanji tells him it is because of something else, and wonders what happened. Everyone, Marines, former henchmen, children, and Straw Hats alike, is now lined up to receive some of Sanji's cooking. Sanji asks what happened to the whole dividing line idea, and the soldiers tell him it is a ceasefire. Hearing this, Zoro asks a Marine to get some alcohol from the tanker, with a child asking for juice, and the soldier happily obliges.
Law tells Luffy that they need to leave now, since someone could easily attack them if they mess around the way they are. Luffy tells him he understands, and then shouts "Time to party!", much to Law's confusion. Everyone enjoys themselves at the party. Luffy and Brook eat with the samurai, and are joined by some children. Zoro happily toasts with one of the Marines. Chopper is in tears now that Mocha woke up, and Robin is nearby having soup with one of the children. The children entertain themselves by talking with Nami, climbing on Tashigi, and watching Usopp demonstrate Franky's many features. Some soldiers approach Smoker and tell him they are going back on the island. When Smoker asks why, they tell him they got Caesar to tell them Shinokuni's weakness, and that their comrades can still be saved. Caesar, with pliers on his cheeks and tears in his eyes, is asking why Smoker is still alive. Further back from the festivities, Smoker and Law are talking. Smoker admits he never thought Law would keep his end of the deal, as Law could have killed him on several occasions but did not. He also comments on his plan to take advantage of the Straw Hats and start something with one of the Four Emperors. Law replies he wonders who the person really being taken advantage of is, and has a flashback to the conversation with Luffy. He is telling Luffy that they will be going after Kaidou. Luffy tells him it that it's fine as long as Shanks is not first, but the order doesn't really matter, since he is going to bring them all down eventually.

In a flashback, Law is surprised by Luffy's plan on taking down all of the Four Emperors, and warns him that he is heavily underestimating them, as they were all powerful enough to challenge Whitebeard for territory before his death. Law continues on saying that Kaidou is said to be the strongest creature alive, and even with their alliance, the probability of succeeding in defeating Kaidou is still only around 30%. Nami says the chances are too low, and they should not agree to the alliance. Despite her protesting, Luffy agrees to the alliance.
Back to the present, Law tells Smoker that he is planning on heading to Green Bit with the Straw Hat Pirates, and remarks that he has his hands full with them. The children are getting ready to leave the island on the tanker with the G-5 Marines. The Marines then draw up a line and tell the Straw Hat Pirates not to cross the line, as they are pirates and therefore, a strain on humanity. The Marines continue to badmouth the pirates, but the pirates largely ignore this, and Nami tells Chopper that Vegapunk is going to help cure the side effects of the drugged candy. As the Marines keep badmouthing the pirates, the children want to thank the pirates for helping them, but cannot do so, as the Marines are trying to prevent the children from doing so. The children are upset since they are the ones who asked the pirates to rescue them but cannot thank them, let alone say goodbye to them. Tashigi stops the Marines, saying that it is disgraceful for them to prevent the children. The Marines explain that they are badmouthing the pirates so they will not grow to admire and respect them, despite the fact that they are pirates. They then break down in tears, as Tashigi laughs and Smoker groans. The children thank the pirates for rescuing them, and say that when they grow up, they will become pirates, to which the Marines protest.
Afterwards, Doflamingo is seen crossing the New World when he notices a raft. The raft holds the decapitated heads of Baby 5 and Buffalo as well as a Den Den Mushi. Baby 5 and Buffalo apologize for their failure in taking back Caesar Clown, but Doflamingo tells them that it is alright, as they were only obeying orders. The Den Den Mushi then speaks up, revealing to be from Law. Law tells Doflamingo that he has Caesar, and wants to discuss business. Doflamingo laughs and tells him that he does not do business with kids, and warns Law not to screw with him. Law ignores that, and says that Kaidou is Doflamingo's principle trading partner. If Kaidou learns that Doflamingo cannot produce any more Smiles, then he will have to suffer the consequences, terrifying him. Becoming increasingly frustrated, Doflamingo asks what Law wants in exchange for Caesar, to which Law responds by ordering him to step down from the Shichibukai, a status he has worked over a decade to maintain. As pointed out by Law, this resignation would also leave him open to the wrath of the admirals. If the next day's newspaper has the news of Doflamingo's resignation, Law shall contact him again, but if the newspaper does not show any news of resignation, then the deal is off and Doflamingo will have to deal with Kaidou. He then hangs up, leaving Doflamingo infuriated.

The G-5 Marines are on Punk Hazard again, trying to save their comrades. They notice that the protective gear developed by Vegapunk is resistant to the toxic gas, and comment on how Caesar Clown lied to his subordinates that it was useless. Then they try finding their comrades and breaking the poisonous shell created by Shinokuni.
Meanwhile, Brownbeard thanks Smoker for allowing him to go back and save his crewmates, saying that he will not forget the Vice Admiral's name, and that he will definitely return to get arrested.
While the remaining G-5 Marines are commenting on how the headless bodies of Baby 5 and Buffalo are creepy, their heads come flying, which attach themselves to their bodies. Afterwards, Doflamingo himself appears and uses Haoshoku Haki to knock out the Marines. After they retaliate against the Warlord for attacking them, he reveals his string-manipulating powers, and defeats them. He then demands Smoker the location of Law and the Straw Hats, but Smoker sarcastically replies by saying that he does not know. Enraged, Doflamingo attacks Smoker.
The Straw Hats are on a sea slope, which Luffy exclaims that it is fun. Law tells the Straw Hats that it is commonly seen, though Usopp yells otherwise. Franky explains to Brook that the "little lamb" is actually Mini Merry II. Kin'emon is surprised to know that the next destination is Dressrosa, claiming that one of his comrades is being kept prisoner there. Luffy then informs his crew about their plan to take down the Four Emperors; Zoro says that it is great, while Usopp once again yells otherwise. Sanji warns Law about how his and Luffy's idea of an alliance are completely different.
Caesar Clown then berates the crew for provoking Doflamingo and Kaidou, and angrily claims that they should die for it. Sanji kicks him to shut up, and Chopper says that he should do it after he's done treating the scientist.
Law informs the Straw Hats about Doflamingo and Kaidou, and their plan as well. Usopp, Nami, and Chopper are terrified at Law's explanation of Kaidou having over 500 Zoan Devil Fruit users, and Zoro tells them to shut up. Afterwards, Chopper praises Caesar for his work on SAD, much to Usopp's objection, but soon loses interest after Law clarifies that it was Vegapunk who discovered the application of bloodline elements.
Back on Punk Hazard, the G-5 Marines beg Doflamingo not to kill Smoker, tearfully claiming that he is the only one who would bother to take care of them. The Shichibukai tells them not to worry, as he will kill all of them, as well as Law and the Straw Hats. While attempting to deal the final blow to Smoker, former Admiral Kuzan appears, who says the vice admiral is his friend.

Despite Kuzan's presence, Doflamingo tries to kill Smoker anyway but is quickly frozen by Kuzan's Devil Fruit ability. However he manages to break free as the ice hadn't reached his heart. Seeing nothing to gain from fighting Kuzan, Doflamingo takes his leave, but not before questioning Kuzan what he stands for due to rumors he had heard. Kuzan does not answer him and yells for a medic. Doflamingo collects Baby 5 and Buffalo and departs. Only then does Kuzan state that even though he is not enlisted in the Marines anymore, he never fully trusted the World Government and that he can still make a difference outside the Marines. Smoker inquires about how he knew of Punk Hazard as it's top secret, worrying that he is doing business with the criminal underworld. The G-5 Marines, who were eavesdropping on the conversation, are yelled at by Kuzan, who asks them to clear off, now that they have treated Smoker. He then informs Smoker that he is doing nothing of the sort. He also warns Smoker to tell Sakazuki to keep an eye on Doflamingo as he poses the biggest threat to the Marines for now. For, even though his presence is not as obvious as the Kuja Pirates, his prowess as a pirate was exceptional indeed. He tells Smoker to ask the Fleet Admiral to dispatch the Admirals as soon as possible. He also asks the G-5 marines not to reveal his presence there, to which they oblige.
Out on the sea, the crew is taking a breather. Usopp and Chopper worry furiously about Doflamingo coming to attack them. Kin'emon nearly gets into a duel with Zoro thinking he had robbed Ryuma's grave due to him having his sword, the Shusui, on him. Momonosuke is revealed to be taking a bath with Robin much to the envious anger of Sanji, Brook and Kin'emon. When they confront him over it, Nami punches all three for their supposed bullying. On being saved, he addresses Nami as a fair princess, which makes him receive a hug from Nami (much to the anger of the three perverts). Momonosuke rubs his face onto Nami's breasts on purpose, while grinning wickedly at the three. As the night goes on, most of the crew (Luffy, Zoro, Brook, Nami, Robin, Law and Momonosuke) sleep while others (Usopp, Chopper, Franky, Sanji, and Kin'emon) stay up looking after the Sunny. Momonosuke is shown to be snoring in the same bed as the two female crew members.
Morning comes and a newspaper seagull delivers the paper that reads that Doflamingo abdicated his position as a Shichibukai as per Law's demands as well as his position of royalty in Dressrosa. However, there is also a picture of Luffy and Law and an article announcing their alliance, much to the crew's surprise. Also in the paper is news regarding Kid, Apoo and Hawkins alliance as well, though Law is unconcerned with it. He then begins to explain the next phase of his agenda to the crew.
On Dressrosa, the island is in an uproar over the news while Doflamingo is in his office reading and listening to some music. Law's Den Den Mushi rings, and Doflamingo decides to answer it.

The news of Doflamingo's resignation from the Shichibukai spreads quickly around the world. On one island, one man asks another if they had a weapons deal with the Donquixote family. One of them is trying to call the family, but no one is answering at the other end. The first man proclaims that they need the weapons from him to put a war in their favor. Jewelry Bonney reads about Luffy and Law's alliance curiously while eating a piece of pizza. People react to the news, assuming that the alliances will lead to no good, and that Doflamingo must have had his reasons for resigning. Among these readers is Jinbe.
At the Kid Pirates' base, the crew is reading the stories and wonder how their alliance made the news. Someone asks who the journalist who reported the story, Absa, is. Apparently he had been getting huge news scoops all over the place. Kid says it does not matter how their alliance got leaked. What bothers him is Luffy and Law teaming up. He correctly theorizes that Luffy and Law are also going after one of the Four Emperors, and wonders which one it is.
At Dressrosa, several Den Den Mushi are ringing off the hook. Doflamingo, however, is taking the call from Law and the Straw Hat Pirates. The Straw Hats are amazed he picked up, but are warned by Usopp to be quiet so he does not hear them. Luffy shouts his name into the receiver and declares he will be Pirate King, prompting a slap from Usopp, but to no avail. Luffy continues, making sure he was correct in thinking that Doflamingo was Caesar's superior and that he was aware of what Caesar did to his subordinates and the children. He tells Doflamingo he will give Caesar back as per the deal, but begins to threaten Doflamingo if he does anything like that again and is about to finish when Doflamingo asks if it was two years since Ace's death.
He then remembers Luffy disappearing only to reappear two years later and asks what he has been up to. Luffy refuses to answer, but Doflamingo tells him he has been looking forward to meeting him. Doflamingo goes on to say that he has something that Luffy will most surely be interested in. Luffy instantly assumes Doflamingo is talking about meat and starts fantasizing as Law pushes his head away from the receiver, warning him not to get pulled into "his pace". He reclaims the conversation, asking Doflamingo not to go off on tangents, and saying he will get Caesar as agreed. Doflamingo reminds Law of what could happen if he gets tricked.
He then asks for confirmation that Caesar is alive and well. Law points the receiver toward Caesar as the bound scientist begins a tearful apology but is cut off as Law takes back the receiver. He tells Doflamingo that in eight hours they will deliver Caesar to the southeast shore of Green Bit, the deserted island just north of Dressrosa, and leave him there at 3pm, which is as far as Law is willing to go to accommodate Doflamingo. Doflamingo pretends to act hurt, saying he was looking forward to maybe having a drink and catching up with an old friend. Law responds by declaring their conversation over and hanging up.
Luffy remarks how he almost strayed from the objective, and Usopp remarks that Luffy's eyes (in the shape of meat) tell a different story. Sanji then realizes that they don't know how many men Doflamingo will bring. Law tells him that the number does not matter, and if everything goes according to plan, then Caesar will work as a successful decoy. Usopp understands Law's plan now. While Doflamingo is distracted, they will use that window to destroy the SMILE factory. Law tells Usopp he is correct, but there is just one problem. He doesn't know where the factory is. Franky reassures him that the factory has to be massive and they should be able to see it easily, at which point he could just take care of it with his laser. This gets Usopp and Chopper excited. Law goes on to say that the difficulty in procuring intelligence was bothering him. Nami reasons that the factory is a high priority, so it could be that the information is top secret and not easily available.
Kin'emon asks that since Law mentioned Green Bit, whether or not they would be going to Dressrosa. Law assures him they will be arriving at Dressrosa. Luffy asks Law if he had ever been to "Dressroba". Law says no, since it is a country that Doflamingo controls entirely. Luffy gets excited, saying he smells another adventure nearing, and they will make a plan once they get there. He cannot wait to see what Dressrosa is like and hopes to go to Wano Country as well. Law asks him if he really thinks they could land without having a proper plan in place. Luffy asks Sanji what they are having for breakfast, and Sanji replies it is just sandwiches. Chopper asks for a cotton candy sandwich while Robin just asks for tea. Law tries to tell them that he does not like bread, but is shocked at how easily he was swept in by the crew's pace and ignored.
During the meal, Kin'emon starts telling the story behind why he went to Punk Hazard. He asks Law if he knew a place called Zou. Law is surprised, since that is where his crew is, and once the mission at Dressrosa was complete, he was planning on going to Zou. Kin'emon eagerly asks if he and Momonosuke could join them on their trip to Zou. Luffy wholeheartedly agrees, and decides they should go to Wano while they are at it. Law tries to interject, but Kin'emon continues his story. Kin'emon, Momonosuke, and two other samurai were on their way to Zou when they were shipwrecked. Kin'emon, Momonosuke, and one of the other samurai washed ashore on Dressrosa. Momonosuke continues, saying they were attacked the moment they landed in Dressrosa. They met some children on a ship who said they needed medical attention. Kin'emon got off the ship to help them, but it set sail right after that, trapping Momonosuke on board. Kin'emon proceeded to follow Momonosuke only because his comrade, Kanjuro, stayed behind to hold off the enemies. Kin'emon now vows he must return the favor and save Kanjuro. Franky and Chopper are deeply moved by Kin'emon's story and Luffy declares they will save him as well. Law yells at them not to get distracted.
The scene changes to Marine Headquarters, where Commodore Brannew is giving a speech about how there must be seven Shichibukai, no more and no less, saying their loyalty and power is supposed to serve as a deterrent to other pirates. He lists off the current roster: The strongest swordsman in the world, Dracule "Hawk-eyes" Mihawk, the depraved king of Dressrosa, "Heavenly Yaksha" Donquixote Doflamingo, the human weapon, "Tyrant" Bartholomew Kuma, the ruler of Amazon Lily, "Pirate Empress" Boa Hancock, the rookie behind the Rocky Port Incident, the "Surgeon of Death" Trafalgar Law, the living legend "Star Clown" Buggy, and the one that he had mentioned earlier. That made seven people until the story broke that morning that Doflamingo had resigned. He adds that Law's position is in jeopardy as well depending on his intentions. Brannew goes on to say that the Shichibukai are supposed to be held in the same kind of esteem as the Marines and Four Emperors, but is cut off by Sakazuki, who tells Brannew that he has made his point. He asks if Brannew thinks Law and the Straw Hats can move freely, adding that Smoker filed his report yesterday, and that the matter will be cleared up within a day, saying that Fujitora has been dispatched to deal with them.
On Dressrosa, someone asks Doflamingo not to make hasty decisions. Baby 5 asks a little girl where Trebol is. The old woman playing cards wonders what Doflamingo is thinking, and another subordinate declares he is ready to fight if the Marines show up, while the old man replies that his orders are absolute. Baby 5 then spots Trebol high above on a tower, commenting on how funny everyone looks in pandemonium and wonders if the outside world is anything like what he is seeing. He comes down and asks Baby 5 if the rumors about her latest fiance getting killed were true. Baby 5 tells him he is invading her personal space, and that there is a fine line between persistence and annoyance. Trebol then asks if she likes it when he is persistently annoying. Baby 5 tells him to shut up and that Doflamingo asked for him, adding that he should bring "that" with him, and reminds him again about personal space. He tells Baby 5 she needs to be more discrete in picking her men, and then asks her to marry him, adding that he was just joking. Baby 5 wonders if he actually needs her, prompting the two old people playing cards to tell her not to go there.
In another room, Doflamingo is praising Diamante for his supervision of the colosseum. Diamante shrugs it off and says that Doflamingo's royal charisma is the real reason behind colosseum's success. Doflamingo insists it is all due to Diamante's know-how, and calls Diamante the savior. Diamante tries to rebuke this, and Doflamingo is about to agree this time, only for Diamante to change his mind and take all the credit. Trebol then drips down from the ceiling, saying he has the thing Doflamingo asked for. Doflamingo then reminds him about personal space before taking the box and telling Trebol to take a seat.
Doflamingo gives the box to Diamante, who tries to argue that he is unfit to hold the box until Doflamingo agrees with him again, at which point he changes his mind and takes it. Doflamingo opens the box and takes out a Devil Fruit, saying he really did have something that Luffy would be interested in, the Mera Mera no Mi, saying there is no way Luffy would let anyone have his brother's power.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats and company have just arrived at Dressrosa, and are more than excited to disembark.

The Thousand Sunny docks at Dressrosa, inbetween boulders. Luffy strikes his characteristic pose, loudly declaring their arrival. Franky is eager to locate and destroy the factory. Luffy tries to ride Momonosuke like earlier on Punk Hazard, but Momonosuke claims he doesn't know how to fly, and can't remember doing it. He says even if he could, he would never do such a dreadful thing while vaguely recalling a dark hand reaching out to him and someone asking him for his name. The pair proceed to fight over whether Momonosuke's a coward or not, in spite of his insistence that a samurai fears nothing. Luffy proclaims he doesn't care about samurai, and states that he is going to be Pirate King one day, while Momo bites his head and counters by saying he is going to be a shogun of Wano one day. Brook sighs and reminds Luffy that he is fighting an eight year old. Kin'emon steps in and scolds his son, telling him to respect the man who saved his life. Kin'emon tells him that the samurai of Wano have high pride, but also tells Luffy to not be so caught up in arguing an eight year old, but the two continue to stick their tongues at each other. Kin'emon offers to provide disguises for the group's time on the island. He claims the men all wear shirts and suits, while the women are all naked, which pleases Sanji and infuriates Nami.
Law gives Nami a Vivre Card that points towards Zo, in case something might to happen to them. Law shows the Straw Hats a map of Dressrosa that one of his crew drew. The team handing Caesar over to Doflamingo will pass through Dressrosa and head north, over a long bridge, to Green Bit; apparently, one cannot get there by ship. Law, Usopp, and Robin (with Caesar) are the team heading to Green Bit. Meanwhile, Nami, Momo, Brook and Chopper will look after the Sunny while the rest will head to destroy the factory.
As Sanji, Kin'emon, Franky, Zoro and Luffy walk around the island, they witness the things for which Dressrosa is renowned: the beautiful fields of flowers, the scent of delicious food, the tireless, passionate dances of women and, to the entire group's stunned surprise, animate humanoid toys that live alongside the people. A doll-man has his arm torn off and stolen by a dog, while a tin soldier remarks that he recognizes the Straw Hats from the newspaper. The team then hears a scream as someone gets stabbed in the street Zoro asks if there is a slasher roaming the street, but a toy soldier explains that the women on the island are of such passion that they stab any man caught cheating on them, which stuns Luffy's team again.
The group is in the port town of Acacia. Kin'emon disguises them all in black suits, shirts, and fake beards as Luffy declares that it is time to eat. At a restaurant, Sanji remarks that the city seems too calm for a nation whose king just resigned this morning. Luffy tries to ask someone nearby for info, but Sanji stops him telling him his face was on the newspaper just that morning. A toy monkey waiter brings the group's food, and as conversation strikes about the meal informs them that the island has a legend about fairies, and that they have been sighted there for centuries.
The restaurant also has a casino, with tables across the room from the eating area. A bunch of crooks are taking money from a blind man, telling him lies about the roulette results. The punks state amongst themselves that with Buffalo being absent from the bar, they can cheat as much as they please. The other customers are displeased, commenting on the dishonor done to Doflamingo's name by their actions. The blind man bets all of his belongings, and the punks lie to him again, eager to rob him of all the money but Luffy steps in and reveals their lies to the gang's rage. The blind man thanks Luffy for telling him the truth, and he sheathes a sword from his cane. Suddenly, the criminals are pushed to the ground with by a crushing force, as the blind man tells them to go to hell. The floor of the restaurant caves into a dark abyss, swallowing the thieves whole. As the crowd watches, the blind man comments on the benefits of his condition, as there is much filth in this world that one does not wish to see.

The people in the restaurant are looking down into the hole made by the blind man. Everyone wonders in awe about the blind man's powers. Sanji says he has an ability, and Zoro wonders what ability it is. As the blind man walks off, he offers to pay for the damages. The cashier thinks he recognizes the man, but before he can say more, the man excuses himself. Luffy asks the man what he is. The man tells him that it would not be wise for both their sakes to tell Luffy his identity. Sanji is confused about what the man meant by that, and wonders if the man has some degree of infamy. Zoro agrees that he is no regular person.
Suddenly people start realizing that their possessions are gone. A bag, a watch, a jacket, and a wallet were all exclaimed to be stolen. The patrons realize that it must have happened when the old man kicked up dust earlier. Sanji wonders if the man robbed everyone. Zoro notices he is missing a sword, and to his horror, Kin'emon realizes that the missing sword is Shusui. A nearby puppet tells them that fairies took everyone's possessions. When Zoro asks if the fairies are a group of thieves, the puppet simply responds that fairies are fairies, and all one can do is laugh it off and move on. The invisible fairies have been the guardians of Dressrosa since the old days, and the people have no choice but to accept whatever they do. Zoro gets angry and tells the puppet it is not a joke, and Kin'emon agrees, saying it is Wano Country's national treasure. Zoro disagrees, saying it is his sword, and Kin'emon declares his intention to duel Zoro and take back Shusui for Wano Country. Zoro is not intimidated by this. Just then, Zoro notices something move. He looks at a window to see someone climbing out it with a bundle of items. Tied to that bundle is Shusui. Zoro runs after the thief, Sanji follows Zoro so the swordsman does not get lost, and Kin'emon follows in turn, refusing to let Shusui get away. Luffy tries to run after them too, but is stopped by Franky. Franky tells Luffy he has a plan. Since they are dealing with lowlifes, Franky asks Luffy to let him take the lead.
They go outside with one of the men from the roulette table and start interrogating him. The subordinate tells them that he was ordered to track some samurai, but he has no idea where they are or if they were even captured. He also does not know anything about the SMILE Zoans either, or a factory of any kind. Luffy remarks how he knows nothing about his own crew. Franky then orders the man to tell him where his superiors are. He tells him that everyone is busy, but that they were all called to the coliseum, including himself. He tells them that there is a big event at Corrida Coliseum. The guy goes on to say that some amazing prize was offered. Luffy instantly thinks the man is talking about the meat that he thought Doflamingo was talking about earlier, only for Franky to say he just said it was something he'd want.
The scene changes to Corrida Coliseum. A soldier standing at the entrance, barring children from entering and shooting at any that try to do so. Inside the stadium, the announcer is building up the crowd, saying that no word can rightly describe the awesomeness of what they are about to see. The prize is truly very rare, a fruit eaten by the man who died at Marineford two years ago, his power gave him legendary status as the revered "Fire Fist Ace". The announcer pulls back the cloth on the display next to him to reveal the Mera Mera no Mi, declaring that it will go to the winner. The audience is momentarily aghast, but starts cheering again right away. The announcer continues, saying that the king has brought out warriors from all over the New World. But to get this prize is no easy task, but these are no ordinary fighters. He then gestures to a television screen as introduces the participants from the Donquixote family: Senor Pink, Dellinger, Lao G, and Machvise. He then introduces the current operator of the coliseum, Diamante. The crowd is now bursting with excitement, eager for the matches to start. The blind man from earlier is seen in the crowd.
Back outside the restaurant, Luffy and Franky have just learned that Ace's fruit is being offered as the tournament prize, much to Luffy's surprise.

A member of the Donquixote Pirates explains to Luffy and Franky that while a particular Devil Fruit can't exist in more than one place at a time, the fruit will naturally grow somewhere else in the world should the user die. After Ace's death, Doflamingo was somehow able to acquire the reincarnated Mera Mera no Mi. Luffy declares he wishes to possess it, and asks Franky if he'd like to eat it. Franky denies, stating that he'd like to retain his ability to swim. Luffy explains that he can't eat it himself due to the Gomu Gomu No Mi, but that he doesn't want to let just anyone have his brother's fruit. Franky comments that this may be a ploy by Donquixote Doflamingo, but it's not a chance Luffy should pass up. They decide to run off to enter the colosseum.
Meanwhile, Zoro is running around looking for who stole his sword. Sanji chases after him trying to convince him to let the sword go, before getting distracted by a beautiful dancer. Zoro warns him that the women of the country are rumored to stab people, but Sanji blissfully disregards this as he is mesmerized by her beauty. Sanji eventually loses sight of Zoro in the midst of his antics, and resolves that this is a good opportunity to just leave him here. Looking at all the couples, he fawns over the possibility of Robin and Nami falling in love with him, until the dancer approaches him. She asks Sanji to hold her, and amid his confused reaction she hugs him tightly as soldiers run past; looking for her. The dancer thanks Sanji and lets him go, but notices his heavy nose bleed, and apologizes for hurting him. Sanji is immediately love struck by her caring nature, but she tells him that she gave up on love. She begins to imply something about all the men that have been with her in the past, but Sanji is only concerned with helping her from the men chasing her.  The dancer says that they are policemen, chasing her for stabbing her former loved one. Sanji is awestruck at the rumors of the passionate love of the island being true, but immediately brushes this off in favor of helping her. She states that being so willing to forgive an evil woman like her could make her fall in love with Sanji, fueling Sanji's comical infatuation even more. She finally reveals that her name is Violet, asking for Sanji's protection on her travel to the next town. Furthermore, there's a man that she wants Sanji to kill.
Arriving at the Corrida Colosseum, Luffy and Franky are amazed by its size, prompting Franky's will to fight as well. They then see police officers chasing a wanted One-Legged Toy Soldier, before he jumps up to one of the windows and enters the colosseum. He explains that by law the police and Marines are not allowed into the colosseum, even if they witness a criminal inside. He also says that the only ones who can execute their rules in the colosseum are the Donquixote Pirates, and that they would be the criminals should they attempt to fire on him now. After the police officers leave, the soldier jumps down and notices Luffy's beard. Believing he is an old man, he offers to help Luffy and Franky with their luggage. Franky wonders about the criminal's polite manners all of a sudden, while Luffy is highly amused. Pleased at Luffy's delight, he starts to laugh and pose randomly, entertaining Luffy further. Franky then asks him to move from their way, and the toy is shocked to learn that he is impeding them. Franky again questions his behavioral changes, and the toy explains that he did it to entertain people, as it is the toys' purpose.
An announcer calls for the closing of public registration for the event, though he laughs at the notion of someone from the public signing up. Luffy announces his intention to join, as he rushes through a crowd of both worried and skeptical faces. As he makes it to the registration desk, Franky advises him to use an alias. Although Luffy acknowledges this, he still comes very close to giving his real name before Franky interrupts him with a punch to the back of the head. Luffy officially enters the competition as "Lucy". The announcer escorts him to the contestants' waiting room, where he sees many gladiators warming up. The gladiators, believing him to be an old man, belittle him immediately. However one in particular, an extremely large warrior named Spartan, takes offense that someone weak would enter the colosseum where people come to to see strong fighters battle. He tries to attack Luffy, who quickly evades and flips Spartan - knocking him out to the shock of the surrounding gladiators.

After knocking out Spartan, everyone is astonished. Blaming Luffy for the incident, one of the referees tries to throw Luffy out of the competition, but luckily he is defended by the Chinjao Family, who informs the referee that it was Spartan that started the fight. Luffy thanks them, but one of the Chinjao family members rejects his apology and tries to attack Luffy but is stopped by another member.
Then some of the other competitors notice that they are some big names from a lot of countries and they wonder if the countries have sent representatives to try and win the precious treasure, the Mera Mera no Mi. Some of the big names are: the Funk Brothers, Dagama and Elizabello the Second from the Prodence kingdom, "Neck Slasher" Suleiman, former bounty hunters Abdullah and Jeet, the fake massacre adventurist, the ruler Orlumbus and "Hyena" Bellamy, the Donquixote family endorsement. The first round is revealed to be a battle royale with four blocks and over 550 participants, though only four will advance. Luffy finds out he is in Block C and that he is allowed to pick any armor or arms he wants besides guns. He chooses a viking warrior look, but finds out that he is over the weight restriction and has to lose some armor.
Another participant, "the prince" who is the captain of the beautiful pirates tries to take up a conversation with Luffy, claiming that he will win the Mera Mera no Mi but is ignored by Luffy. Luffy then asks why everyone is almost naked and the prince informs him that the reason is because the spectators want to see blood and that in the arena you can see humanity's true colors exposed.
The prince then asks who Luffy is and Luffy tells him his real name and exclaims that he is going to be the Pirate King, which draws attention from the crowd, but they see that his name tag says Lucy and assume he just mispronounced his own name. The prince laughs and says that if he really was Luffy then he would take his head here and now, because when he came to the New World about three years ago he made a big name for himself but then his fame was overshadowed by the Summit War of Marineford and The Eleven Supernovas as well as the Blackbeard Pirates.
So he carries a grudge against any who is in "the worst generation", he then is ignored again by Luffy, who notices a statue and his resemblance to it in his armor. Rebecca a female gladiator tells Luffy that it is a statue of Kyros the mightiest gladiator in the history of the Corrida Colosseum, stating that he won 3000 consecutive matches and that he only took a single blow throughout them all, but that he retired 20 years ago and that no one knows his true identity. She then wonders if he truly existed and how the bronze statue appeared one day out of the blue, after that she declares her intention of winning the Mera Mera no Mi and killing Doflamingo. The announcer then proclaims that the first block battle royale is over and the winner is revealed to be the captain of the first ship of Blackbeard's crew Jesus Burgess.

The chapter starts out with Franky in the stands, exclaiming his shock to see such a powerful competitor as Jesus Burgess, thinking that Luffy would win the tournament easily. He then gets up to leave and do his job, but the Thunder Soldier says that he wants to go too, much to the annoyance of Franky.
In another part of the colosseum a marine scout is reporting to his boss, Capman, asking for reinforcements due to the sheer amount of formidable outlaws at the colosseum. Capman says he will ask Issho right away, but is confronted by the "missionary" Gambia of the Barto club, but he quickly takes care of him. Meanwhile, the blind man gets up to leave, and his subordinate gives him his (admiral) coat. The blind man requested 3 battleships and a large number of medical officers and said that he will go to Green Bit first. He is then revealed to be Admiral Fujitora, and asks his subordinate about the number of spectators, the population of the town, and of the country. When his subordinate asks why that is needed, he replies that before counting the number of enemies, they should count the number of people needing protection.
At a northeastern cafe the members of the group responsible for exchanging Caesar are asking about Green Bit, but are told to avoid it, saying that there are fighting fish which are very dangerous. He also says that no one who used the iron bridge to Green Bit has ever come back. Usopp and Caesar plead with Law asking to change the drop-off location, but Law refuses. Law is more worried about the lack of panic even though Doflamingo, their king, has just resigned, but his worries are cut short by the arrival of CP0, the world's strongest intelligence agency.
Elsewhere Zoro is seen chasing the "fairy" that stole his sword to the top of a building and takes it back, only to go over the side and fall to the ground with the 'fairy' falling with him. Meanwhile Kin'emon gets lost and is surrounded by enemies who seem to have captured Kanjuro. Also staying true to his promise Sanji beats a mysterious sniper much to the pleasure of Violet. Back at the ship, the group protecting the Thousand Sunny are playing Shogun, when suddenly they hear a mysterious noise.
Back at the colosseum Bartolomeo enters the arena, while one of the referees asks if he has seen Capman, who is shown to be defeated.

Bartolomeo walks into the arena as the announcer is introducing him. He calls Bartolomeo cruel and crazy, citing an incident involving him skewering pirates and broadcasting it, and holds the number one spot for the person people most want to disappear. Bartolomeo is then introduced through a character box, listing his bounty at 150,000,000. Bartolomeo raises his hands and declares that he is sending everyone to hell. The crowd starts booing, telling him to get lost. He responds by making faces and then throws an object into the crowd. One of the workers asks what he thinks he is doing. People in the audience start to run and duck for cover after someone screams that he threw a bomb. Everyone stops when they hear the oddly normal sound the "bomb" makes when it lands. It turns out that Bartolomeo simply threw a ball at them. Dagama sarcastically commends him for his great job winning over the crowd, calling him a thug. Bartolomeo says he does not care what they think of him.
The announcer then introduces another contestant, calling him the opposite of Bartolomeo; a man with only the utmost devotion to Doflamingo who swore allegiance to their king after bringing him a pillar made of gold from another country. The crowd gets excited with anticipation, knowing whom the announcer is talking about. Thanks to him, every country that's insulted Dressrosa by calling them pirates has been destroyed by this man, known as the murderous bomb of Dressrosa. And now this man has a one in a lifetime opportunity.
The scene changes to backstage, where an official is directing people to the infirmary. He tells them that they do not have enough stretchers for everyone, and encourages people to walk if they can. Someone asks why such powerful fighters are in the tournament. Luffy muses that they all got beaten pretty hard by Burgess as a man in shell shock is being rushed by on a stretcher. Bellamy walks up behind Luffy, telling him he doesn't have bad eyesight, and that he can see through Luffy's disguise. He could never forget the man who ruined his reputation. Bellamy is reintroduced with a character box, marking his current bounty at 195,000,000. Luffy recognizes him as the guy who beat up Mont Blanc Cricket and begins to guess the wrong name, but Bellamy cuts him off and reminds him. Luffy asks him why he is here. Bellamy says no reason in particular, as he does not live on Jaya and can go wherever he wants. He goes on to say that he has worshiped Doflamingo ever since he was young. He does not care about the Mera Mera no Mi. All that matters to him is winning. Luffy remarks that they will be fighting again. Bellamy tells him that he is nothing like the man Luffy fought in Jaya. He tells Luffy that he also went to a sky island at the cost of his crew, and became a changed man upon his return. Luffy asks what he did to the people there. Bellamy cryptically replies by answering the question with the same question. As he walks off, he tells Luffy that he no longer considers there to be any bad blood between them, all he wants is to join up with Doflamingo.
As Bellamy walks out into the light of the arena, the announcer tells the crowd that if Bellamy wins the tournament today, he will be promoted to a high executive position in the Donquixote Family, and is one of the favorites to win the tournament. He finishes his introduction by presenting Bellamy the Hyena. Cavendish looks at Bellamy somewhat jealously, remarking on his large following. He then asks Luffy what block he is in. Luffy is about to answer as the chapter goes into narration, listing the noteworthy fighters from each block:
From C Block, there is Sai, Lucy, Kelly Funk, Jean Ango, Boo, Ideo, Fighting Bull, Don Chinjao, Hajrudin, and Bobby Funk.
From D Block, there is Mummy, Orlumbus, Cavendish, Meadows, Fighting Lion, Rebecca, Damask, Rolling Logan, Acilia, and Suleiman.
And from the group about to face off, B Block, there is Elizabello II, Blue Gilly, Tank Lepanto, Abdullah, Bartolomeo, Ricky, Bellamy, Dagama, Hack, and Jeet.
The announcer swings a wooden mallet down on the starting bell and the match gets under way. Bellamy is trying to decide where to begin when he sees several fighters get thrown back. Tank Lepanto, Elizabello II, and Dagama discuss if they should take out Bellamy first, to which the tactician says yes, as they must take out the stronger fighters while they still have numbers on their side. Bellamy asks what they are doing, and Bartolomeo remarks that the battle isn't really a battle royale anymore. Dagama tells them they can complain all they want when they are dead. All that matters is who the last person standing is.

Block B continues, and the audience realizes that Dagama has formed an alliance with other competitors. The announcer announces the news to the entire Colosseum, and tells the audience that this action is not against the rules, and announces who the mastermind of the operation is. Dagama thinks to himself that there is no way for his kingdom to lose this, due to the immense strength of their king, Elizabello II. He continues to think about how Elizabello left a hole in a rival kingdom's fortress, and then thinks about the one drawback to using Elizabello's power; it requires one whole hour to charge up and use. He continues to think about how it is capable of knocking out an Emperor in one punch, and says that the outcome of the battle depends entirely on the punch's timing.
Dagama then asks Elizabello how his preparations are going, and Elizabello replies by saying that he is ready to go anytime. Dagama then tells his men to defend the king, and to continue thinning the numbers in order to ensure their victory. Bellamy then mocks Tank Lepanto for teaming up with Dagama and Elizabello, due to his status as defense captain of Dressrosa. Lepanto responds by saying that money is what makes the world go round, and that dreams are unimportant, because he prefers to collect the easiest money he can possibly acquire. Bellamy laughs, and attacks Lepanto. In the midst of their clash, three other competitors fall into the lake. The three fighters are disqualified, and then the announcer tells the audience what is inside the lake; a school of little flying fish. The crowd cheers as the flying fish show themselves. The announcer then goes onto say that there's no way anybody can emerge from the fight unscathed, because it is the Corrida Colosseum.
Meanwhile, elsewhere in the block, Abdullah and Jeet are fighting other competitors. While Abdullah attacks them from the front, Jeet attacks them from the back, which causes one of the fighters to tell Jeet that what they are doing is cheating. The two then stand beside one another, and Abdullah states how much he loves the sound of fighting.
Elsewhere in the block, a fighter tells Hack that fish-men should not put their noses where they do not belong. He goes on to say that Hack should not be there, because he is a monster. The fighter continues to mock Hack, but then Hack tells him that instead of speaking with his mouth, he should speak with his fists. The fighter then attacks Hack with his spiked mace, but Hack is undamaged from it, and knocks the fighter back with a four thousand tile punch. Hack then goes onto say even though the fish-men place their faith in Jinbe (who is also Hack's friend), the fish-men should also fight back with fists.
Elsewhere in the block, Dagama's men are being attacked by Blue Gilly. Blue Gilly tells the fighters to come closer to him, because according to him, it is not fun if they stay so far away. Dagama tells his men that Blue Gilly is merely a long-leg, and that they should just aim for his leg in order to take him down. Dagama's men respond by saying that they refuse to get near him, due to not knowing where his kicks may land next. Blue Gilly then attacks the men.
Elsewhere in the block, a gladiator notices that an unfamiliar face is there. They point out his strength, and say that they have never seen him in a battle before. They go on to point out that he is only using one sword, unlike the other gladiators who use both sword and shield, and that he must be a samurai from Wano Country. This gladiator is revealed to be Ricky, and he attacks the men, and tells them that they are too slow.
Elsewhere in the stands, a few audience members point out how they have never seen Ricky in the Colosseum before, and one of them states that they recognize his fighting style, but say they can not remember his name. The audience then goes on to scream at Bartolomeo, asking him if he wants to die, and saying how they just want him to lose, because he is just laying out in the open.
Meanwhile, in the participants viewing area, Cavendish explains to Luffy why people call Bartolomeo "The Cannibal". He goes on to say this is due to his mockery of others, and says that Bartolomeo is one of the cheeky kids who rose to fame after him. Luffy then states that this is exciting, and asks Cavendish what his name is. Cavendish replies by saying that he is Cavendish, and Luffy then asks him what he has in his hand (but calls him Cabbage instead). Cavendish replies by saying that he is checking on his bounty posters of The Worst Generation, and says that he will probably need to get new ones soon due to all the knife marks he has left on them. Luffy tells him that he should probably just forgive them, but Cavendish replies that he just wants to kill them. Cavendish then goes onto say that he thought at least one would be there, due to the prize offered. He then states that they may be hiding their face, as Burgess did before, and says that he will wait for them among the survivors.
Suddenly, Don Chinjao interrupts the conversation, and comments on the view of the match from the area. Chinjao then asks Luffy how Garp is doing, and refers to him as Straw Hat Luffy. Luffy then asks him if he knows his grandpa, which causes Cavendish to become shocked. Luffy then realizes that he has revealed his identity. Chinjao explains that a long time ago, Garp nearly killed him, and that he has decided to hold a grudge against his descendants. This causes Luffy to say nothing more than "what?"

In the participant's viewing area, Don Chinjao tells Luffy and Cavendish about Garp's reputation in the past, and how he is considered a demon by many pirates, and about how Garp gave him scars. Cavendish questions Luffy about his true identity, but Luffy tells him that he isn't Luffy, and is Lucy. Chinjao states that he will take out his grudge from Garp on Luffy, and Luffy replies by telling Chinjao to take it out on Garp instead. Chinjao then asks Luffy if he is really Garp's grandson, and Luffy replies by saying that he is Lucy. Cavendish then pulls out his sword, and tells Luffy that if he is really Straw Hat Luffy, then he will cut him down right there. Chinjao then states that he wishes he had discovered the identity of Monkey D. Dragon earlier, so that Luffy would have never been born. Chinjao attacks Luffy as he says this.
Nearby, other gladiators notice Chinjao rampaging against Luffy. Luffy tells Chinjao to hold on, and Cavendish approaches Luffy and tries to pull off his beard. The spectators then state that Chinjao is not a joke, and that he once had a bounty of over five hundred million Bellies. Chinjao then prepares to attack Cavendish and Luffy. Cavendish draws his sword, and nearby gladiators identify it as Durandal, one of the world's greatest blades. Cavendish states that Luffy is his prey, but Chinjao ignores him and charges at him and Luffy. Cavendish blocks Chinjao with Durandal, and nearby gladiators note that the sword pierced his head. The gladiators then notice that Chinjao stopped the blade, and that it actually did not pierce his head. The gladiators then exclaim that the fighters cannot be human, due to their extraordinary strength. Chinjao then continues to relentlessly attack Cavendish and Luffy, and Cavendish says that they cannot cut corners if they want to take him down. Luffy then gets angry, and knocks Chinjao into the ground.
The gladiators then exclaim that Luffy has kicked Chinjao's ass, and question his identity. The gladiators are then shocked when Chinjao stands back up, unscathed from the encounter. The gladiators then speak about the myths that surround Chinjao, including him breaking an arctic continent with a headbutt. Luffy is also surprised that his attack did no damage. Chinjao then states that even though Cavendish and Luffy have talent, it is too soon for them to be facing him. Cavendish then fully believes that the disguised Lucy is Luffy, and Luffy replies by telling him to leave him alone. Cavendish then states that Luffy is good at getting people to hate him, due to stealing people's popularity and being born the grandson of Garp. Luffy then says that he did not know any of those things, but then corrects himself by saying that he is Lucy. Chinjao then tells Cavendish that if his intention is to get in his way, then he will just take him down as well.
Suddenly, Sai and Boo show up, and tell Chinjao that this is as far as he should go for now. They state that he will be disqualified if he does this now, and grab him in order to stop him. Chinjao tells them to get their hands off him, and also says that he has finally found the bloodline of Garp. Sai and Boo respond by saying that if he is disqualified now, they will be unable to achieve their real objective for which they joined the tournament. The Colosseum guards show up, and tell the group that if they are fighting, then they will kick them out. Cavendish notices this, and says that he does not care if he gets kicked out, but then he notices that Luffy has disappeared. Sai and Boo then tell Chinjao that he can kill Luffy in Block C, since they are in the same block together. Cavendish then says that he will not let Luffy get away, and states that he is going to take his life before the match even starts.
A few of the spectators then question what they have heard, which is that Straw Hat Luffy is there. Luffy is then seen hanging on the side of a window, and he remembers how he promised Franky he would not let himself get caught. The announcer of the battle announces that Tank Lepanto has been defeated by Abdullah and Jeet. Jeet laughs, and the audience states that the two of them always play dirty tricks, and call out Lepanto's name. The announcer states that in such a short time, over one hundred contestants have been eliminated, and that only thirty contestants remain. Dagama then states that as long as his kingdom has the king's punch, they will win. Blue Gilly attacks Ricky, and Abdullah and Jeet taunt the other gladiators.
Suddenly, Bellamy appears and attacks the duo. He is able to defeat them, and the audience exclaims how cruel and atrocious Bellamy's actions are. The audience then points out Hack, and say that he is strong. They point out that he is using Fish-Man Karate, and that he is cool, because of all the one hit knock outs he has achieved in the battle. The announcer then announces Hack's feat in the tournament, and also notices someone on the other side. The audience wonder what this person is doing. The announcer then asks Bartolomeo how long he plans on annoying people. The audience asks why nobody is kicking his ass. The announcer then points out how Bartolomeo is peeing into the lake in the middle of the battle, and says that never in the history of the Colosseum has this happened. The announcer also wonders if there is anybody that will stop Bartolomeo's silliness.
Suddenly, the announcer spots Hack approaching Bartolomeo. Hack states that there are people who actually are taking the tournament seriously, and also says to forgive him for attacking from the behind. Hack prepares to attack Bartolomeo, and Bartolomeo tells him not to attack a defenseless man. The announcer says that Hack is the arena's hero, and the audience cheers him on. Hack attacks Bartolomeo, but his hand breaks in the process. The audience is shocked, and the announcer questions how Hack is the one on the ground, Luffy is shown to be shocked, and the announcer questions what Bartolomeo really is.

Bartolomeo kicks Hack and knocks him out, eliminating him from the competition, this astonishes the crowd including the commentator who apparently was cheering for Hack to win. The commentator then gets control of himself and announces that the B block battle is still anyone's game and that there are 24 participants left, some of the combatants still left standing being: Bellamy the Hyena, Bartolomeo the cannibal, Dagama, King Elizabello II the fighting king, Blue Gilly, and Ricky.
Dagama then announces to Blue Gilly that everyone is wounded and that now is the time, Blue Gilly then kicks Ricky in the helmet, and wounds him gravely. Blue Gilly questions Ricky as to "what he is trying to cut, with a dull sword" while Ricky lies on the ground commenting that he can not win against time, and that he hates the cheers and that he hates Doflamingo. Blue Gilly and Dagama then attack the gladiators that Dagama had bribed into helping him from behind, betraying them, Dagama then tries to double cross Blue Gilly and attack him from behind, but Blue Gilly notices and counters with a kick that knocks Dagama out of the ring and promptly gets attacked by a fighting fish as insult to injury. Blue Gilly knew never to trust a schemer like him and was watching his back the whole time, earning him the praise from the audience.
Meanwhile Bellamy has been fighting Bartolomeo and is on death's door, been severely outclassed by him, Bellamy then comments that Bartolomeo must have eaten a Devil Fruit. The spectators noticed that Bellamy was mysteriously hurt after he attacked Bartolomeo just like Hack, while Luffy still hanging from a window sill shouts encouragement at Bellamy.
Meanwhile a group of competitors has ganged up on king Elizabello II, while Blue Gilly taunts him saying that he is now unprotected to which the king retorts back to Blue Gilly with a threat of his own. The crowd is now very curious as to what will happen next, as they have heard about the power of Elizabello's punches, and they decide to run away when he starts preparing to punch. As Elizabello is about to punch, Blue Gilly quickly moves in with the intent to break the king's neck while Bellamy has managed to catch Bartolomeo with his hands, when he felt the power eliminating from the king and turns around to sees in horror that he and Bartolomeo are directly in the path of the punch. With the power channeled in an hour of focus, Elizabello unleashes his punch directly in front of Blue Gilly, breaking the sound barrier and releasing an unstoppable shock wave, destroying anything in its path and sent everyone in the ring flying and out of the fight. The punch alone generated a blinding light that prevents anyone from seeing what's happening. Outside of the colosseum, by passers stop to look at the rising smoke and the loud sound that came from the colosseum. As the smoke clears, the shaken commentator crawled out of the safety of his stand and announces to the audience that every fighter except for Elizabello II had been knocked out.
Before he could announce the winner, one of the audience shouts out there is still someone else standing, and the smoke clears revealing a transparent barrier protecting not only the audience from the brunt of the punch but Bartolomeo as well. Bartolomeo then reveals that he ate the Bari Bari no Mi a devil fruit that allows him to create a barrier when he crosses his fingers, he then attacks Elizabello with a barrier which proves to be powerful enough to injure him and sent him skidding near the edge of the ring. With the last remaining fighter knocked out, the commentator announces Bartolomeo as the winner of the B block battle royale which disappoints the crowd.
Meanwhile inside the corridor leading to the seats, Thunder Soldier reveals to Franky that he is also planning to destroy the factory. Franky demands to know the location of it, but Thunder Soldier tells him they must first free the workers and that their tactic is important as it will bring the fall of Dressrosa. Thunder Soldier then states that if Franky is seriously going to stand up against Doflamingo, then he will explain the history of Dressrosa.

After the B block battle royale has finished Bellamy is being taken away on a stretcher and as he passes Luffy he comments that he has not changed a bit, Luffy on the other hand disagrees and that he has changed. Bellamy laughs at this and tells Luffy that he is the one that has changed, commenting on his exceptional Haki, he then tells Luffy that the whole rooting for him thing has crushed his pride and calls him "Straw Hat", which gets the attention of Bartolomeo who is standing a couple feet away.
At the bridge to Green Bit the "Caesar Exchange Team" is making their way across the iron bridge with 45 minutes left until the agreed upon time to exchange Caesar Clown. Unfortunately for them they are being attacked by a school of Fighting Fish who are so big that the iron bridge bends easily under their weight, which prompts Robin to wonder if they really are fish to which Law responds that they are, although Usopp disagrees and Caesar says they are the same as sea monsters. But Law does not seem very agitated by the fish and comments that it is not a problem that Usopp and Robin cannot handle, which confuses Usopp who believes that since Law is a Shichibukai he should be the one dealing with the fish. The school of fish starts to attack the bridge again forcing Robin and Usopp to deal with them, much to the happiness of Law, but realizing that there are too many fish to deal with they decide to make a run for it. Law also tells Usopp to take off Caesar's handcuffs so that he may help out, stating that Caesar will not run away as long as he is still in possession of Caesar's heart, which angers Caesar. Caesar helps out by defeating some of the fish while the other three run, Usopp then asks Law again as to why he is not fighting to which Law responds that he has to save all his energy for his fight with Doflamingo much to Caesar's shock.
The group then encounters some more bad luck as the next part of the bridge has been destroyed by the fish as well as the fact that it is surrounded by fog and what is worse another fighting fish jumps out of the water to attack the group. Fortunately the fish is stopped by some kind of fishing net much to the surprise of the group, voices are then heard on the other side of the bridge which makes the group wonder who it may be and Usopp calls out asking if anyone is on the other side and if they can help them get across. This however surprises and scares off the mysterious strangers, Law then makes Caesar use his gas powers to fly the group over to Green Bit much to the annoyance of Caesar.
Upon arriving at Green Bit the group can not find any traces of the people who captured the fish and notice both the large number of wrecked ships and the giant, lush forest of Green Bit. Law then observes that the southeast beach is just up ahead while Usopp notices a Marine ship that had crashed into the island and Robin uses her binoculars to confirm that the ship had damaged the plants and trees just recently. Robin also notes that the ship itself is not very damaged and Caesar starts to get paranoid that the exchange has been compromised and complains to Law who is wondering how to make his next move. Caesar begs Law to call off the exchange as the Marines are there and he is an enemy of the Marines, but Law refuses, noting that since he is an ally of the Straw Hat Pirates the Marines are now his enemy too and that he will need Robin and Usopp's skills to check out the forest and make sure there is nothing strange going on.
Robin and Usopp then leave to search the forest with 14 minutes until the exchange takes place with Robin taking the lead and Usopp trailing behind. The two then notice a bunch of Marines in a clearing talking with an unknown person, the Marines ask if he is a Straw Hat to which the unknown person comments that he is not and that his name is Leo. Leo then asks whether the Marines are good guys or bad guys, to which the Marines respond that they are good guys, prompting Leo to ask that they lay down their weapons. Unfortunately the Marines do not and in the blink of an eye they are stripped down to their underwear. The Marines run away while Robin uses a new technique to try and capture the culprits, whom she believes are dwarves.

Robin woke up to find a bunch of dwarves climbing on her looking for anything suspicious, much to her shock. When she tried to get up, a certain dwarf by the name of Leo informed her that she better stay down, while another named Kabu informed the other dwarves that she used a weird magic. She then recalls how she captured Kabu but how she was then knocked out by an anesthetic flower along with Usopp. After that she is informed that she is currently located under the forest of Green Bit and that she should not try to escape as she is sewn to the ground due to the power of Nui Nui. Robin then apologized to the dwarves promising that she will keep their secret for them, at first the dwarves did not believe her but after being reassured by Robin again they immediately trusted her much to Robin's shock. However, the Tontatta kingdom's chief arrived and demanded to know what was going on, to which Leo explained that Robin is a good person which he believed immediately, which again shocked Robin.
Robin then noticed that it is almost time for the exchange and that she must get going, she then asked that the dwarves return her Den Den Mushi but is informed that it has been returned to the wild. After that she asked to be led to the exit but the dwarves say that if she truly is a good person, then she will give them her weapons, though Robin said she does not have any weapons. The dwarves then told her that she must be stripped and they attacked her. She is saved, however, by another dwarf named Flapper who quickly informed them that she is the friend of the legendary warrior who was with her. Robin knew that "legendary warrior" would be one of Usopp's lies and wondered what lies he sprouted out at them.
Meanwhile, at Dressrosa's port city, Acacia, Zoro is running with a dwarf named Wicca. Wicca was the "fairy" that had stolen Zoro's sword and, because of an ankle injury that she got from being chased by Zoro, she is relying on him for transportation. While Zoro is relying on Wicca for directions due to his lack of an internal compass. Wicca also informs Zoro of several things she has found out during her recon mission, such as the fact that Doflamingo's crew is on their way to attack the Straw Hat's ship.
And at the Corrida Colosseum the C block match was about to start. Rebecca was seen reminiscing with her thoughts until she noticed Franky and the Thunder Soldier running. Her eyes began to well up with tears as she recognizes the tin soldier she knew so much. She called out to Thunder Soldier who saw her and Franky stopped for a minute. The tin soldier told her that when he saw the list of participants, he couldn't believe she would willingly come back there. With her emotions spilling out, she cried out that she will win the tournament this time and when she is done they can be together. Thunder Soldier however, told her that a crying warrior won't win the tournament and asked Franky to hurry to their destination. Franky, still confused at what was going on, wondered if it was okay to leave her crying, but the tin soldier explained to him that even toys have things they want to protect. However, for the tin soldier, even tears won't fall from his tin eyes, leaving Franky in thought over his words and quickly left the arena as Rebecca sank to her knees with her burdening emotions.
Finally, back at Green Bit's southeastern beach, with two minutes left before the meeting, Trafalgar Law is informed by Sanji who has urgently phoned him that the exchange is in fact a trap. That Donquixote Doflamingo never truly left his position as a Shichibukai and that he and Issho are planning to attack him. Trafalgar Law told him that it's too late as he saw Doflamingo and Issho already moved in to surround him.

Thirty minutes before Caesar's transfer, back in Dressrosa, Sanji is seen beaten and bloodied up, surrounded by Doflamingo's men, while Violet reveals that she fooled Sanji and actually knew who he was all along. She comments that she had heard that Sanji was weak to women, but did not realize it was this bad. It is then discovered that Violet is actually an assassin for Doflamingo and a part of the Trebol Army. Sanji, however, refuses to believe that Violet is a bad person and says she has a kind heart but is somewhere she does not want to be because she was tempted by some bad people. This apparently angers Violet and she kicks Sanji in the face, telling him to stop being in love. She believes Sanji is lying to her and is actually suppressing his anger while searching for a way out.
Violet then demonstrates her Devil Fruit power that allows her to see through people's clothes and even into their minds. After looking into Sanji's mind, she finds out that Law and Luffy have teamed up but is unsure of their reasons for being on Dressrosa. She then looks into Sanji's mind again but is repulsed by his perverted thoughts and demands to know why she cannot see the details of his crew's plan. Sanji replies that he can only think of her. Sanji then tells Violet that he believes she was telling the truth when she asked him to kill a man for her due to the tears in her eyes. This angers Doflamingo's men and they decide to kill Sanji; however, Violet, who was touched by Sanji's words, uses her Devil Fruit powers to defeat them.
Violet then tells Sanji that he was right about her and was thankful that he still believed in an enemy like her. Sanji then invites Violet to escape with him and his crew on their ship but Violet tells him that they have fallen into a trap. She then lets Sanji look into her mind using her Devil Fruit powers and see her memories from the morning. Violet's memories reveal that Doflamingo was waiting for CP0 to show up. When CP0 arrives, they announce to the citizens of Dressrosa, who were in a panic over the report that their king had stepped down from his position, that the report was a mistake and that it would be corrected in the extra edition of the newspaper at 3 p.m. that day. They then tell the citizens not disclose this to anyone else and to proceed with their day as if nothing had happened. After seeing these events in Violet's memories, Sanji is visibly shocked. He then comments that using the World Government goes beyond the powers of any Shichibukai. Violet then tells him that she cannot leave because she is afraid of what Doflamingo will do but she says that there might still be time for Sanji and the others to escape.
Back on Green Bit, in the present time, Admiral Fujitora is talking with Fleet Admiral Sakazuki, the former having difficulty believing that a false report could be published and given to Marine headquarters. Sakazuki replies that it is completely infuriating and he is going to contact the Five Elders at Mary Geoise about the matter, saying there is nothing else they can do about it right now. Robin finds Law using her Devil Fruit powers and explains that she overheard Law's conversation with Sanji. They decide they need to get off the island since the plan failed. However, Robin tells Law that both she and Usopp are underground and cannot help him at the moment, so they decide to escape separately and meet at the port. At that moment, Doflamingo and Admiral Fujitora show up and a narration box shows it is now 3 p.m. Doflamingo then mockingly pretends to be afraid that a Marine admiral is there because he quit his position as a member of the Seven Warlords of the Sea; however,Law calls him a liar.
At the same time, at the Corrida Colosseum, the C block battle royale has just started. Cavendish is seen being held back by guards, enraged that Luffy somehow managed to get past him and into the ring. Luffy then shows his excitement because the battle has finally started.
At the same time, around the world, the extra edition of the newspaper is being distributed and the people are visibly shocked by the false report.
Back on Green Bit, Law asks Doflamingo if he really used the powers of the World Government and tricked the whole world just to deceive a small group of people. Doflamingo tells him that the fixed belief that someone would never do something so ridiculous creates a blind spot. However, Law replies that Doflamingo is just a pirate, even if he is a Warlord, he should not be able to do something as preposterous as getting a false news story printed, and that only the Celestial Dragons have that authority. Law then thinks about what he just said and remembers a comment that Vergo made about not knowing Joker's past. However, Doflamingo says it is more deep-rooted than that and says he plans to kill Law.

During the confrontation between Law, Donquixote Doflamingo and Issho on Green Bit, Caesar Clown yells to "Joker" to finish off Law already. Law tells Doflamingo that he broke his promise and they were going to have to start their deal from scratch again. However, Doflamingo laughs at this and tells Law to leave his subordinate Caesar alone. At that moment, Issho and his men realize that Law's hostage is none other than Caesar Clown, the criminal scientist behind the poison gas incident. However, Issho says that because he is the subordinate of a Warlord, he is exempt of his crimes.
Doflamingo then directs his attention to Issho and asks if he is really Fujitora, the man who was assigned to admiral at the World Military Draft. He then says that he has heard stories about Fujitora and Ryokugyu being true beasts in terms of power. Issho responds that, although he is still new to the Marines, he cannot understand what Doflamingo is doing on Green Bit. He then states that he has received information that Doflamingo is not exactly following the rules as a member of the Seven Warlords. Doflamingo laughs at this and says that if he plans to investigate him, he will need to be prepared to back up his claims before he says anything.
Doflamingo then asks what the Marines have decided in the matter of Law's disposal. Issho says that if Law really is in an alliance with the Straw Hat Pirates, then he is no longer a Warlord. However, he says that if the Straw Hats are just Law's subordinates, then Law can remain a Shichibukai. Law analyzes the situation and decides to buy some time by telling Issho that he is in an alliance with the Straw Hats. Doflamingo laughs once again and Issho officially revokes Law's title as one of the Seven Warlords and then prepares to attack.
Issho then uses his devil fruit power to cause a meteor to fall out of the sky right on top of them, much to Law and Doflamingo's shock. Caesar and Issho's men run for it but Law, Doflamingo and Issho use their devil fruit powers to cut the meteorite into pieces. The falling meteorite pieces create a large crater around them, leaving only their footholds left. A furious Doflamingo then asks Issho what the Fleet Admiral taught him. Law comments that it doesn't matter if Issho can see or not. Issho responds that he was just testing his strength a little.
Back on Dressrosa, Franky is talking to Sanji via den den mushi. Franky informs Sanji that he and Thunder Soldier are heading to the flower field while Sanji informs Franky that he has fallen in love. Franky tells him that that is great and he is going to find the factory soon but it is going to be a bigger job than they originally thought. Sanji then tries to inform Franky about Doflamingo's trick, but Franky says that he already read the newspaper about it and plans to destroy the factory anyway. He then invites Sanji to meet them at the flower field. Sanji then worries about Nami's safety but Franky tells him to stop thinking that she is still weak and reminds him that Brook and Chopper are with her.
Sanji then notices a giant television screen broadcasting the fight from the Corrida Colosseum. He is shocked to see Luffy on the screen kicking a gladiator in the face while the announcer expresses his shock at the mysterious gladiator Lucy's strength. Sanji then tries to inform Franky that Luffy is fighting in the Colosseum but Franky reveals that he let him fight, much to Sanji's frustration. Sanji then ends his call, and Violet gives Sanji a map to the secret factory. Violet informs Sanji that the factory looks like a toy house up front but it is actually the factory. Sanji expresses concern that Violet will be in a lot of trouble if she keeps helping him but Violet tells him that her superiors are probably already aware of her betrayal. Sanji then tells Violet to meet him at the western port and hide herself so that they can escape later but Violet, amused that Sanji still thinks he can save her, tells him he really is hopeless and smiles before running off.
Suddenly Kin'emon appears out of nowhere and tells Sanji to defeat a group of Doflamingo's men who were chasing after him. Sanji does so and then comments that Kin'emon could have defeated these small fries himself but Kin'emon said he could not because they used his friend Kanjuro as hostage. He then asks Sanji to come with him to free Kanjuro from a place called the "toy's house". But he doesn't know where it is.
Back on Green Bit, in the Tontatta Kingdom, Usopp and the dwarves are concerned about all the shaking coming from above ground. Robin says that it must be Law and the others. The dwarves then notice that their hero's upset but Usopp says that he is fine and that the shaking was just his Haki. The dwarves are impressed and tell him to keep eating all he wants and call him Usoland. Robin then asks Usopp about why dwarves are calling him Usoland. Usopp shows her a statue with the words hero on it and asks her if it reminds her of the picture book from Jaya. Robin realizes that the statue is of Mont Blanc Noland. The dwarf Leo says that she is right and tells the story of how Noland came to their island 400 years ago and fought with the bad humans that were ravaging their island and led the dwarves to victory. Flapper then says that he was moved when "Usoland" said Noland's name and said that he was a descendant of his. Robin looks at Usopp at calls him a bad person but Usopp responds that his lie saved her. The Dwarf chief Gancho then proclaims that Usopps arrival was due to fate. Leo then says that it was 400 years ago today that Noland led their ancestors to victory and now on the day that they vowed to fight Doflamingo, Usoland the hero showed up. He then says that when Usoland is done eating, they will use an underground tunnel to meet up with their friends on Dressrosa and fight the Donquixote family. The dwarves then proclaim that Usoland will lead them to victory and chant his name, much to Usopp's horror.

In the coastal waters off Dressrosa, Brook and Chopper, on the Thousand Sunny, tell people to get away from the ship. The invaders are revealed to be members of the Club Trebol Army, with the leader of the group being revealed as Giolla. Giolla tells Brook and Chopper to be quiet, and asks who called her a mermaid princess, to which Brook and Chopper reply that they did not. Giolla tells them to hurry up and hand over Momonosuke, and also wonders how the boy is with them, since earlier, they just had an eel with them. She goes on to say that Doflamingo has ordered the capture of Momonosuke, and the capture of their ship. Nami thinks about what will happen if Giolla continues to go wild with her ability, and Brook and Chopper say that the Thousand Sunny may become unusable. Nami then tells Giolla to attack them away from the ship, and Momonosuke hangs on to her legs.
Giolla then tells her men to capture Momonosuke, and also says that what is happening will not do at all. Her men then yell at her, and she continues to say "this will not do", and she starts to shake and laugh. She says that an image is coming to her head, and that her soul is about to come forth. Brook says that the situation is getting bad, and that she might do like she did before. Brook reveals that Giolla was the one who had snuck into the men's quarters, and says that she has already transformed the lockers and beds into a crazy state. Brook also states that Franky will probably be mad because of this incident, but also wonders if things can even be turned back to normal. Giolla then says that an image of liberation and beauty is bursting out, and one of the Straw Hats tells her to stop, and not to do that on their ship, saying that her goal is away from the ship. Giolla then says that freedom is everything in this world, and questions the Straw Hats on that statement, while also turning the Thousand Sunny into a piece of art. Brook then states how awful it is, and Nami screams. Giolla laughs, as Nami states that the ship is not even a ship anymore. Giolla says that the ship is now a piece of beauty, and tells the Straw Hats that now that she has done this, they will be unable to escape from Dressrosa. She goes on to ask them if they really thought their distractions would fool her. Nami, Chopper, and Brook look on as Giolla continues to laugh at their plight, and Momonosuke sees the head of the ship and turns around shocked.
Meanwhile, at the Corrida Colosseum in Dressrosa, Ricky says that if the guards wish to perform medical treatment on him, then they better just forget about it, since he wants to leave as he is. The guards say that they could not possibly leave him as he is, and say that it is their jobs to tend to his wounds. Ricky gets angered by this, and tells the guards that they are speaking of healing somebody after holding a tournament to the death in the Colosseum. The guards tell Ricky to take off his mask, because of the massive amounts of blood flowing from it, but Ricky tells them not to lay a hand on him, and asks them to show him to the exit. Ricky then falls over on his knees, as Rebecca is shown standing in front of him. Rebecca notes how terrible Ricky's wounds are, and tells him that he should probably get them looked at. Ricky suddenly gets up, and says that he can walk on his own. The guards tell him to head inside, and take the stairs down to the basement. Ricky then looks down, and remembers Rebecca as a little girl, and apologizes to her inside his head, and Rebecca stares in silence.
Meanwhile, in the Donquixote Family stand-by room, Bellamy reports to Diamante that Luffy is participating in the tournament, and Diamante tells him to wait until the match is over. Bellamy then receives a note from Doflamingo, asking him to kill Luffy. Diamante states that Doflamingo is too soft, since Bellamy had lost the tournament, and that it is Bellamy's lucky day because of all the chances Doflamingo is giving him. Bellamy then remembers how Luffy had been cheering him on before, as Diamante tells Bellamy that assassination is easy work, and that if he can accomplish this task, he will become an officer of the Donquixote Family.
Elsewhere in the Colosseum, Bartolomeo walks up to Cavendish with a briefcase in his hand. He tells Cavendish that he has heard about his desire to go after Lucy. Cavendish replies to him by congratulating him on his victory in Block B, and also tells him that the business with Lucy is none of his business. Bartolomeo then tells Cavendish that he will not let him kill Lucy, and Cavendish says "really now, you too?" Cavendish notes that Lucy is the man of the hour, but that he is his prey. Bartolomeo then tells Cavendish that his motivations with Lucy run deeper.
In Block C, Gatz notes how many contestants have already been defeated, and says that Block C is a white-hot battle. He then points out one contestant in particular, the giant Hajrudin. He states that Hajrudin is a member of the new generation of warriors from Elbaf, and notes that he has the title of "strongest pirate mercenary". Hajrudin asks a gladiator if they have ever seen a giant with a Logia devil fruit ability, and then he smashes the contestant into the ground and says that he will be the first once he has eaten the Mera Mera no Mi. Hajrudin also states that he wants to be King of the Giants. Gatz notes that each of Hajrudin's punches are like bolts of lightning, and asks if anybody can stop him.
Gatz then moves his attention to the other side of the Block, where Fighting Bull is defeating a bunch of the gladiators. He explains that death-row prisoners meet their ends against Fighting Bull, and notes that he has already sent twenty-one men to hell. He says that Fighting Bull is called the coliseum's death god, and has been nicknamed as Brutal Bull. Gatz then asks how somebody was able to tame such a death god, and notes how the person riding the bull appeared out of nowhere, and has easily become a fan favorite due to his light and nimble strength. As Gatz says this, the crowd is shown visibly pleased, and asks what the guy riding the bull is doing. Gatz reveals that the one riding the bull is Lucy, and says that even he himself likes the gladiator, which causes one of the employees at the Colosseum to tell Gatz that he is supposed to remain unbiased as an announcer.
Cavendish is then shown angered, as he states that even when Luffy's identity is hidden, he is still able to retain his popularity. Rebecca is also shown watching the competition, and says how funny Luffy is. Luffy then nicknames the fighting bull as Ucy, and tells him to take all the gladiators out. Luffy laughs, as the fighting bull moos. Then, Ucy runs into the foot of Hajrudin. The crowd gasps in shock, and Gatz does as well. Hajrudin glares down at Luffy and the bull, as the crowd says that picking a fight with Hajrudin was a bad idea. Hajrudin then begins to attack the duo, showing anger over their challenging of him. Luffy tells Ucy to run away, but he does so too late, as Hajrudin is able to smash them both into the ground of the Colosseum. The crowd screams in shock, and one of them even shows care for the bull. Hajrudin looks down at the seemingly defeated duo, as the crowd continues to call out the name of the seemingly defeated duo. The crowd is then shown to be very sad, as Gatz notes how disappointing this result is. Gatz then states that the power difference between a rookie from Elbaf, and Lucy and the Bull is evident, and that even though they were strong, they could not stand up to him. Hajrudin roars in victory.
Suddenly, Luffy gets up, and checks on Ucy. He sees that he is knocked out, as Gatz is shown shocked at Luffy's survival. Luffy then stands up, and in anger, jumps up to Hajrudin's face, as the crowd looks on in shock. He knocks out Hajrudin in one punch, while the crowd screams and is shown visibly shocked, along with Gatz and Rebecca. Gatz then announces that Hajrudin has been knocked out.

Gatz announces with surprise that Hajrudin has been defeated, referring to him as a favored warrior and speaking for everyone when he calls it unexpected. The crowd loves it and starts cheering for Lucy. Meanwhile, Luffy is helping Ucy to safety, saying he is taking the cow to the corner. Cavendish is unimpressed by Luffy's power, while Bartolomeo seems to enjoy the display. Rebecca is completely shocked by the Lucy's might. Ideo walks over the unconscious Hajrudin, remarks that the ring is no place for a nap and delivers an explosive punch that propels Hajrudin huge body into the audience stands, panicking spectators before it falls into the water. Gatz was again surprised to see the blasting force of Ideo's punches, referring to him by his epithet "Destroyer Cannon". Ideo then declares he will get stronger by eating the Mera Mera no Mi as he blasts away more fighters.
Gatz then turns the crowd's attention to the three fighters from Flower Country, referring to them as famous kenpo users. Sai is then seen shattering a fighter's helmet and shield and knocking him out. Sai is then introduced as the thirteenth leader of the Happo Navy. Gatz refers to the Happo Navy's power and centuries of martial experience. Boo is then seen defeating a contender and is introduced as the vice leader of the Happo Navy. Chinjao is lastly introduced as the retired twelfth leader of the Happo Navy, while he is being surrounded by a ring of fighters. As the gang attempt to move in on Chinjao, he presses his hands together and knocks out several fighters with Haoshoku Haki, stunning the crowd. Other fighters recall his bounty and legendary status as a pirate, and Chinjao turns to them and warns that he is only after one person so they should stay out of his way.
Immediately in front of Chinjao, Jean Ango is seen collecting the weapons of fallen gladiators and thanks Chinjao for incidentally supplying them. He is then introduced as the bounty hunter "Jean the Robber". Gatz recalls that Ango is a bounty hunter hated by many pirates in the New World. A fighter charges at him, crying that he won't forgive Ango for sending his partner to jail. Ango simply says that he's a sniper, and the weapons he scavenges are his bullets. He throws a sword clean through the charging man and tells him to attack the prison if he cares so much about his partner, as someone already did two years ago.
Elsewhere, Kelly Funk is mercilessly beating a fighter who is already well past unconsciousness. The crowd dislikes such overkill and shouts at him in disapproval. Bobby tells his brother to stop and tries to grab him but accidentally seizes the victim instead. The brothers are then introduced as killers from the Mogaro Kingdom. Kelly angrily tells his brother the guy he beat up called him a little midget, and asks Bobby for his opinion. Bobby assures him he is not but Kelly once again lays into the unfortunate fighter, and Bobby again grabs the wrong person in an attempt to stop his brother. Kelly finishes his brutal beat down with a threat to gouge the man's eyes out. Gatz mentions that the brothers are notorious in the underworld, adding that the rumor about them is that they were able to handle pirates with bounties exceeding 100,000,000.
Boo comes up on them, curious to see how a boxer with no formal training fairs against him and immediately sends Kelly Funk flying with a quick jab to the chin. The crowd is stunned by how easily Kelly was sent flying. Gatz once again shows his personal opinion in the commentary, saying that Boo is too strong while one of his booth assistants keeps him from saying more. Boo then turns his sights on Bobby Funk, who reacts fearfully and claims he had never been in a fight, showing his back as Boo swings an axe down on him. To his surprise, the axe shattered, even though he had used Busoshoku Haki to enforce the blade, leaving Boo to wonder how strong Bobby's body is. Bobby tends to his brother, still furious about being mocked for his height, and tells him to "put it on". Suddenly, what appears to be a larger, enraged Kelly wearing Bobby's hat turns the tables on Boo, to Sai's consternation, hitting him with a barrage of punches that knocks him unconscious and pummels him on the ground. Gatz cannot tell which brother is actually attacking, guessing that Kelly has transformed into a different person.
Somewhere else, Jean Ango has stolen Luffy's helmet; worrying that his cover is blown, Luffy is forced to use his cape to hide his face and hat. Ango mentions that he heard something interesting about Lucy, and mentioned the rumor that Monkey D. Luffy had snuck into the tournament. Luffy looks to his right and sees Chinjao knocking down fighters to get to him. Gatz announces that about forty people remain in the block, saying it is still anyone's game.

The crowd is amazed by the Funk brothers who are defeating countless combatants with devastating force. Nearby, Don Chinjao orders Sai to avenge Boo's defeat by the Funk brothers, while another participant recalls what he saw happen between the Funk brothers earlier, which is revealed to be due to a devil fruit ability. As Boo was attacking the Funk brothers, Kelly activated his devil fruit ability, transforming him into a jacket which Bobby put on. Kelly explains that though Bobby was born with a tenacious body he is weak willed and unsuited for combat, which is the opposite of Kelly who has a fierce personality but a weak body. However, by using the powers of the Jake Jake no Mi, Kelly can make good use of Bobby's body by taking control of it and putting his strength to full use. Kelly further explains that his fruit allows him to control whomever he wears, even animals and monsters. After his explanation, the fight between the Funk brothers and Boo ends with Boo getting knocked out easily with one punch.
Sai then approaches the Funk brothers who proceed to insult him, calling him a pitiful man who is unable to take care of his own brother. However, Sai does not react to their words aggressively and merely explains that Boo did not train hard enough, which is why he was so easily defeated. The Funk brothers then launch their Rarara Ranbo attack at Sai, only for him to dodge by running up their flying fists like stepping stones. As he leaps into the air, Sai states that his discipline in the art of Hasshoken has rid him of brotherly emotion; but, as leader of the Happo Navy he will avenge his men without mercy. Sai then delivers a devastating Hasshoken axe kick to the Funk brothers' head, knocking them out.
Elsewhere, Luffy is confronted by Don Chinjao who wishes for Luffy to pay for the loss of power and youthful memories that Garp took from him, to which Luffy responds that he knows nothing of what his grandfather did and tells Chinjao to sort it out with his grandfather personally. Unfortunately, Don Chinjao refuses and tells Luffy that not even Garp's death would suffice as retribution - he must lose someone close to him. Jean Ango watches the affair from the sidelines and is amused as his suspicion that Lucy is actually Straw Hat Luffy is confirmed. Luffy tries to snatch back his helmet but Jean dodges, taunting Luffy while throwing knives at him. Luffy dodges all the knives with ease by virtue of his Kenbunshoku Haki, while Jean expresses his desire to track down and kill every major prisoner who broke out of Impel Down. Hearing this leads Luffy to wonder how his fellow escapee Ivankov is, while dodging more of Ango's knives. It is only after Jean Ango loses his temper with Luffy's ability to dodge that the pair of them notice that all the knives that missed Luffy had struck Don Chinjao. This surprises Jean enough that Luffy is able to calmly take his helmet back from the stunned robber, shortly before Chinjao knocks him out with a headbutt.
Meanwhile in the middle of the arena, Ideo and Sai have been clashing intensely with their respective martial art styles, though neither is able to take the lead in the fight. Luffy, tired of evading, finally accepts Don Chinjao's challenge, and the pair of them rush into the center of the arena. While Gatz is commenting on how Ideo and Sai are sparring for the honor of being the greatest fighter in the arena, Luffy kicks Sai aside at the same time Don Chinjao barrels through Ideo with his fist, leaving the commentator and the spectators blown away. Both fighters throw Busoshoku Haki imbued punches at each other, and with it a wave of Haoushoku Haki that knocks out every last contender in the arena, leaving the two as the final competitors in the C block battle royale. Diamante who has been watching the match, comments on the display of Haoushoku Haki as the final confrontation of the C Block melee commences.

Don Chinjao is impressed by Luffy's Haoshoku Haki. Luffy tells Chinjao that he aims to be the Pirate King and Chinjao scolds him, saying that there are many people in the sea with the right qualities to become king and he must conquer all the conquerors for that to happen. Chinjao asks Luffy who taught him haki and Luffy says it was Rayleigh. Chinjao is surprised that Rayleigh is still alive and hits Luffy, telling him that he doesn't want to remember the past. Don Chinjao starts crying that his treasure was in front of him but he couldn't reach it. Gatz and the crowd are surprised to see the legendary pirate start to cry. Chinjao then angrily demanded answers from Luffy as to what Garp did to him, but Luffy shot back that he should either cry about it or get angry since Luffy himself had no idea of Garp's life in his golden years.
Meanwhile, Sanji and Kin'emon are watching Luffy's battle from the big screen in town. Kin'emon then asks Sanji to help him to save Kanjuro from the toy house but Sanji says it is too dangerous now as Bastille and the Marines are surrounding the Colosseum. Though the marines surrounded the colosseum since the start of the first battle royale, not a single loser of Block A and B left the stadium, and there was no word of any development from their spy Maynard who was a fighter in the tournament and they worried about any unknowns that could surprise them.
The scene switches to the Thunder Soldier explaining to Franky about the two rules imposed by Donquixote Doflamingo since he became king of Dressrosa ten years ago. They are:
Franky is surprised by this because the toys and the humans get along so well. Suddenly, Esta is seen yelling at a toy, saying that he caught the "human illness". The toy insists that he used to be Esta's boyfriend, but Esta's current boyfriend slaps it away and the town soldiers took the toy away to be thrown into the scrap bin. While being carried away, the toy yelled that he's human to no avail. After that scene, the two then turned their attention to a boy is telling his toy dog Wanpoko to let him ride on him, but Wanpoko refuses, saying that the boy is too heavy. Wanpoko is in truth Milo, and he used to be the boy's father and the husband of the boy's mother. Thunderous Soldier of Rage then asks the mother and son if they have a husband and father, respectively, and they answer that they do not. Franky was clearly confused over this and asked the toy soldier over what is going on here, and the soldier revealed that the toys were forgotten humans who were turned into toys by a Devil fruit user under the employment of Doflamingo's family since he came to power on the island ten years ago. This revelation shocked Franky to the core and asked if the toy soldier was human once, but it told him that he will continue to tell him more as soon as they reached the Flower Hill.
On Green Bit, the fight is continuing against Law's favor, and Law is failing to contact Nami via Den Den Mushi.
In the Tontatta Kingdom, the ground is rumbling from the battle aboveground and Leo is confusing it for Usopp's "Haki". Leo then quickly stitches all the furniture in his house to an secure surface. After everything in the house is secured he then leaves the house forgetting that he accidentally stitched his grandma to the shelf as well. Leo asks Usopp and Robin if they are hungry and they reply that they are not. Usopp asks Leo why they want to battle with Doflamingo and Leo answers that 500 dwarves are held captive in the dark factory on Dressrosa, including the kingdom's princess, Mansherry. Leo then shouts that the decisive battle will be in the dark factory, under the Corrida Colosseum.

In the beginning, beneath the Green Bit where lies the Tontatta Kingdom, Leo tells Usopp that there's a subterranean way that connects Green Bit and Dressrosa which they would use as their way of transportation. The dwarf then brings Usopp and Robin to the kingdom's airport, Tontatta Airline (TAL). Both Usopp and Nico Robin are impressed by whole airport system and its transport, which appears to be rideable insects and animals. Kabu and Bian appear, saying that they are ready to take off and that Leo was late. Kabu is revealed to be the Yellow Kabu Squad Leader and the user of Mushi Mushi no Mi, Model: Kabutomushi, allowing him to transform into a rhinoceros beetle. Bian is revealed to be the Pink Bee Squad Leader and the user of Mushi Mushi no Mi, Model: Suzumebachi, allowing her to transform into a hornet. While Usopp seems to be fascinated by the kingdom's insect transport (wishing to show them to Luffy too), Kabu and Bian comments that Usopp and Robin are too big, so the two of them have to ride the Linear Foxes that generally are able to hold 20 dwarves and runs very fast. Usopp comments that the ride makes him feel like a royalty while Robin comments that the foxes' fur is very beautiful. Leo shouts that with the great Usoland by their side, they shall rescue their fellow dwarves.
While they are heading forward, Usopp and Robin suddenly hear a voice. It turns out to be chief Gancho, who came out of Robin's breasts, only to be scolded by Usopp. Gancho says that there was a thing he didn't clarify yet. He first expressed his gratitude for Usopp and Robin's help and he told them that the history between the dwarves and the Donquixote Family started not ten years ago, but dates back even to 900 years ago.
The scene switches to Dressrosa, where beneath a field of sunflowers lays a Dwarf Army, called the Riku Royal Army (or the Anti-Doflamingo Army) led by the Thunder Soldier. He introduces Franky to his brothers-in-arms, the dwarves, who thought of Franky as a strong-looking toy and great aid to the incoming war. Franky appears totally confused by the concept of the dwarves, and Thunderous Soldier of Rage explains to Franky that the dwarves' strength won't lose to his, and with their blinding speed, they are known by the Dressrosa citizens as fairies. Franky is surprised to understand that the ones who took Zoro's sword were actually the dwarves, but he quickly gets distracted by Wicca who screams to Zoro, who is already there and is watching the tournament. Zoro is angry that Luffy didn't bring him along, claiming that his swords are just itching to fight. Wicca is surprised to see her commander and Zoro greets Franky nonchalantly, then the cyborg himself scolds Zoro for what the hell he is doing there. Three dwarves report to the soldiers that the enemy's movements as well as those of "Sugar" have been identified.
One of the dwarves reports that two Legendary Heroes have arrived, namely Robiland and Usoland, and he says they are heading over there right now. He states that they have other friends, who are Luffyland, Zoroland, Namiland, Sanland, Chopperland, Fraland and Bonesland. Zoro and Franky thinks to themselves that it is definitely Usopp who is able to tell such lies. The two of them then tell the dwarves that they are Zoroland and Fraland respectively, and the dwarves appears to be amazed by it. Zoro suddenly realize that it is not the time for him to be with the dwarves, and that he must go back to Sunny to save Nami and the others. Wicca says that that was what she was trying to tell him all along.
The scene switches to the Thousand Sunny, where Nami is fighting against Giolla, but clearly she is on the losing side. She tries to release a Weather Egg to produce snow clouds, but her Clima-Tact is transformed into a useless object. Nami seems disgusted by the new form of her weapon, calling it a "toy". Giolla angrily asks Nami who she is calling a supermodel, to which Nami replies that she never did. Giolla proceeds to explain that her power is not to turn things into toys, although there is someone like that in the family. She explained that she has eaten the Ato Ato no Mi, which made her an Art Human and allows her to turn things into works of art. On the other side, Chopper's horns have been turned into wings and his hooves into rabbits, rendering him useless. Momonosuke says that they want to capture him, and Brook answers that he would never surrender the boy, but even his Soul Solid has been transformed into art. Giolla yells at the remaining pirates to stop acting like a victim and be happy to be turned into an art, despite being angry later that her crews and submarine are badly damaged. Giolla proceeds to ask them which type of Artistic Death Penalty they want to repay her with and a Den Den Mushi starts ringing in the background. Chopper answers the Den Den Mushi: it's Law calling. While Chopper immediately asks Law for help, Law ignores him and orders the crew to reach Green Bit, where he will give them Caesar. After that, he cuts the call. Nami comments that the guy is almost as reckless as Luffy, doing whatever he wants and not listening to anybody.
On Green Bit's surface, Doflamingo appears to cut numerous stones and asks a tired Law who he just called, and tells him that he should return Caesar's heart, claiming it is meaningless for him to stay there and buying some time. Also he is informing Law that Luffy fell right into his trap. He says that Luffy is having a lot of fun in the tournament full with the strongest people (mainly outlaws), but the ones who lose in it will fall straight to hell and will never make it out of the tournament. Doflamingo exclaims that their alliance is finished.
Outside of the Colosseum, Kin'emon is cheering for Luffy, resulting him to be scolded by Sanji. Kin'emon replies him with his belief that a man must be cheered in order for him to win.
In the colosseum balcony, Burgess joins Bartolomeo and Cavendish who were spectating the fight of the block C. He comments that the fight has gotten very interesting, while wondering who is the little runt that's fighting in the arena. Luffy finally makes a move and hits Chinjao with a Gomu Gomu no Hawk Rifle on his stomach. The crowd seems to cheer for him while Chinjao appears to cough some blood from the said attack.

After Chinjao falls down and hits his head upon receiving Luffy's devastating attack, he quickly gets back up and commends Luffy on his fighting prowess to which Luffy responds that he will not lose to Chinjao. The crowd is abuzz with excitement and Gatz is amazed with the fight, commenting on the speed of the fight and how words are escaping him in trying to describe it, calling it one of the greatest fights ever to take place in the colosseum. Back in the arena, Chinjao is berating Luffy for being like the rest of his generation and having a big head merely because he is labeled as part of "the worst generation", saying that they are nothing compared to his generation. Chinjao then surprises Luffy by telling him that he is familiar with Blackbeard, next he tells Luffy that he is not ready to fight with him and that he should just give up on being a pirate. He then goes on to berate Rayleigh for believing Luffy could lead the way for the new generation, calling him out of touch, then he praises the marines for killing Ace, which angers Luffy immensely. Chinjao then asks Luffy if he thinks he has what it takes to defeat the admirals, the yonko and succeed Roger. Luffy, who has become extremely angry due to these rantings, grabs onto Chinjao's head and uses a Gomu Gomu no Rocket to launch himself upwards, surprising Gatz, the crowd and Chinjao. Chinjao then tells Luffy to come down and receive "a baptism by fire", saying that with the rage he has built up for Garp in the past 30 years will make Luffy feel the full weight of his strength.
Chinjao proceeds to recall the events of 30 years ago, where it is revealed that he used to have a pointy head and was once on a continent of ice, which could not be broken by fire or brute force. Some thieves are seen trying to break the ice so they could get their hands upon the treasures that lay beneath, but all of their efforts were fruitless. Chinjao then shows up and told them that to crack the exterior you have to concentrate an incredible force into a single point. He proceeds to do so and actually cracks the ice, sending the robbers pluming in the sudden chasm and onto the sea or treasure. Chinjao then orders his crew to tie up the treasure hunters and to throw them into the sea, he then proclaims that with happiness and fortune, everything he desires in life can be found within the frozen room. The room is revealed to be filled with several hundred years worth of treasure from Chinjao's clan and that the "key" to getting into the room is his drill head. Later on a different island, Chinjao and Garp meet and proceed to taunt each other before dueling, Garp throws a Haki-imbued fist to counter Chinjao's Haki-imbued headbutt. Both men seem to put all of their strength into these attacks and Garp comes out the victor when his punch, pushes Chinjao's pointy forehead back into his skull, surprising his crew and forcing them to retreat. After recovering, Chinjao speechless at the lack of a point in his skull, travels once again to the ice continent, only this time he is unable to make the ice crack open no matter how hard he tries, much to his dismay. His crew begs him to stop and he does, crying over the fact that he is no longer able to reach his gigantic wealth, he then curses Garp saying that he will never forgive him or even his grandchildren.
Meanwhile back in the colosseum, Chinjao finishes his recollections after he had quit being a pirate, when the crowd is amazed at Luffy's attack so much so that Gatz even ponders if it is real. Chinjao then makes a silent promise to Garp that he will take his precious grandson's life and while imbuing his skull with Haki, he demands that Luffy repents for what his grandfather had done with robbing him of everything with only one punch. Luffy however is in no mood to take pity on Chinjao, stating that his grandfather had hit him more times than he could count. Chinjao then ascends to meet Luffy's punch with his headbutt and the two forces collide, with Luffy's punch causing Chinjao's skull to grow a point like it had years before, totally astonishing the crowd. The force of Luffy's punch sends Chinjao plummeting towards the colosseum arena and his new point manages to crack the floor, which surprises everyone even more, Chinjao then technically falls out of bounds causing him to be disqualified from the fight, leaving Luffy as the winner of the C block battle royale.
Elsewhere, Cavendish remarks that the next time he meets Luffy, he will not let him get away, though Bartolomeo reminds him that he will not let him kill Luffy, to which Cavendish declares that if he gets in his way he too will suffer his wrath. All of this is overheard by Bellamy, while Jesus Burgess is surprised that the winner of the C block battle royale turned out to be Straw Hat Luffy.

Gatz announces to the crowd that there are currently three contenders to fight against the Donquixote Family: the winner from Block A, "Champion" Jesus Burgess, the winner from Block B, "Cannibal" Bartolomeo and the winner from Block C, Lucy. He then informs the crowd that there is only one more person who will participate in the finals, but that the Block D battle will be delayed 15 minutes do to repairs being done to the arena.
The news about the delay angers the crowd, as they are very anxious to watch the next battle royale, meanwhile Cavendish attacks Luffy outside of the arena, though Luffy is easily able to block his first strike. This catches the attention of Bartolomeo, who is annoyed at Cavendish for going after Luffy, though Bartolomeo stops along the way to torture a couple of bystanders for insulting Luffy for being unable to save Ace. Bartolomeo uses his Devil Fruit to create a barrier to crush one of the bystanders, not caring that he is apparently a noble. Bartolomeo then tells him that Luffy is going to become the future Pirate King, he also reveals that he was at Loguetown on the day that Buggy tried to execute Luffy and was amazed at the miracle that saved his life. He then goes on about how he followed news about Luffy and the Straw Hat pirates ever since and that after the events of Marineford he was inspired to sail the seas as a pirate. Bartolomeo is then implied to have cut off the noble's tongue, while Luffy and Cavendish continue their fight, with Luffy questioning as to why they even need to fight.
Onlookers plead with the two to stop, but they are unable to even get close to the brawl while Bartolomeo is too nervous to meet Luffy yet, the Chinjao Family arrives then and Sai announces that his grandfather would like to talk with Luffy. Luffy however is suspicious and believes that Chinjao wishes to continue their fight, though in reality he merely wished to express his gratitude, unfortunately Chinjao accidentally breaks the floor with a headbutt. This causes Luffy to run away, while being pursued by an angry Cavendish, though Rebecca manages to take his hand and leads him away from the commotion.
Along their way they come across Burgess who is in the middle of a conversation with his captain, which catches the attention of Luffy, who stops to hear what is going on. Burgess mentions during the conversation that he cannot trust Aokiji and then informs his captain that Luffy is with him, Blackbeard then begins to have a brief conversation with Luffy, telling him that Burgess will win the Mera Mera no Mi for him, but Luffy promises that he will not let that happen.
As Luffy leaves Rebecca questioning him as to his relationship with the other pirates, to which he responds that he is something of an acquaintance and that he cannot let him win, Luffy then stops to try and get some free samples, though the shop owner is a little suspicious that Luffy is not interested in buying anything, though Rebecca offers to pay for him.
Rebecca then takes Luffy to the gladiator quarters and tells him that she is impressed with his strength, though Luffy is more impressed with his lunch and asks if she is hungry, though Rebecca tells him that she does not get hungry, which reminds Luffy of a samurai. Luffy is then captured by an unknown assailant who asks Rebecca to kill Luffy, though Luffy manages to free himself, dodge Rebecca's slash and then subdue her while still eating. Rebecca then tells Luffy that she will accept any punishment Luffy gives her, though Luffy is unwilling to punish her since she bought him food. Luffy is then informed of the plight of the gladiators and how they are little better than prisoners under Doflamingo's regime, while Rebecca announces her desire to win the Mera Mera fruit and kill Doflamingo.

As Rebecca lies on the ground sobbing, a bewildered Luffy asks about her sudden breakdown. She then explains to him that her friend, the one-legged soldier Luffy met outside the Colosseum, will soon die. A perplexed Luffy finds such shocking news very strange, though finds that the fact that the toy is alive in the first place is even stranger. Rebecca tells him that Luffy, just as every other newcomer to Dressrosa, cannot fully understand. She proceeds to explain how toys in the country are treated the same as people, capable of befriending the friendless, becoming brothers to those without brothers, and becoming lovers to the loveless. She does note the fact that toys and humans are not allowed to live amongst one another, which she finds confusing. Ever since her mother Scarlett died 10 years ago, "Mr. Soldier" out of grief and kindness began to raise Rebecca as his own. Gatz then announces that the arena has been fixed, while the other gladiator prisoners tell Rebecca that the upcoming D block battle royale will soon begin. Rebecca then notices Luffy eating his spilled food off of the ground. He explains that although he spilled his food in the scuffle earlier, he eats it anyway as an apology to Rebecca for having to pay for his food, calling it delicious. Gatz then mentions how the D block battle is full of veterans, and as Rebecca proceeds to enter the arena she tells Luffy that she will meet him in the final match.
As she enters the arena, Rebecca recalls living with her mother as a young girl, specifically a day where she helped her mother sell some flowers and afterwards shared a meal together. She then recalls how the king's palace was ravaged and burned down as she and her mother fled from a younger Diamante and some other members of the Donquixote Pirates. Fortunately, they managed to escape their attackers, finding a place of refuge in some nearby woodlands.
After a while, Scarlett decides to gather food for the both of them, leaving Rebecca behind, though promising to return shortly. Days later, Rebecca hears movement in the bushes, discovering a battered and bruised Thunder Soldier with a bloodied Scarlett in his arms, shocking Rebecca. The Thunder Soldier explains how Scarlett was attacked, and although he tried to protect her, she was ultimately killed. The Thunder Soldier gives Rebecca some food, though she instead begins to cry. The bewildered Thunder Soldier initially does not know what to do, though immediately clamps his hand on her mouth to keep her quiet as Doflamingo's troops storm by, looking for Rebecca. Later on, the Thunder Soldier tells Rebecca that her mother was an important person, and as her daughter, she is also just as important, which is why Doflamingo is after her. He then tells her that since he could not protect her mother, he will protect her, even at the cost of his life. Rebecca is not concerned with herself though, fixated on the death of her mother. She begins to sob for her mother as the Thunder Soldier attempts to cheer her up, all while trying to run back to her old home. The Thunder Soldier, however, realizes that her home has been occupied by Doflamingo's troops by now. Back at the village, Donquixote Doflamingo is shown as the new king, having usurped the throne from the previous Riku family, who had governed for centuries before their usurpation. It is also revealed that in the most recent years, the previous regime of Dressrosa was hated by its subjects for increasingly high taxation. Doflamingo promised to destroy the old ways and bring wealth back to the country.
The Thunder Soldier then tries to take care of Rebecca who resists at first, but over time comes to accept him. He then finds a place for Rebecca to live and tells her that although he cannot live with her, he will always be there beside her. To prove his statement, he will always drop one flower petal every morning from the window into her bedroom. Over the years, the two are very happy together, until Rebecca is kidnapped, forcing the Thunder Soldier to attack her kidnappers and retrieve her. In the process, he becomes a wanted man. The two then find another place to live and Rebecca promises to one day live in the same house as him. Deciding that Rebecca should learn how to fight and protect herself from danger, the toy begins to teach her how to defend herself.
The flashback ends with Rebecca stepping into the ring, thinking about how the soldier always protected her. Gatz then announces her arrival as people jeer and scream at her. Rebecca then hopes for the future and well being of the Thunder Soldier, promising that she will not lose.

The audience is still shouting hateful slurs at Rebecca while talking poorly of her grandfather. Luffy says that her being the former king's granddaughter is a moot point, thinking about Chinjao and his own grandfather. The convict gladiators agree with him. One of the competitors gives Rebecca a backhanded compliment, calling her beautiful but an even bigger nuisance than Bartolomeo while another one muses that killing her would make him a local hero. A voice calls out to stop. Cavendish enters the arena, sword drawn, mounted on his horse, Farul. Gatz enthusiastically announces his arrival as women in the audience begin to swoon from his presence. Gatz commenting saying that Cavendish has not lost his touch from three years ago as a spectator calls for Cavendish to make Rebecca suffer. Cavendish waves Durandal at the audience and tells them to shut up. He does not know why the audience hates Rebecca, but she still has the resolve to fight for her life in the ring, which the audience does not. Cavendish tells the audience that they who are not fighting have no right to speak ill of her and anyone who wants to back up their threats should pick up a weapon and step into the ring, adding that the words of those with no resolve fall only as noise against his ears. Cavendish goes on to say that even though he has his reasons to compete this time, he hates contests such as this, believing that a warrior's life is not something that should be used for entertainment. The crowd is visibly moved by Cavendish's speech as he dismisses his horse. Even Luffy was impressed by what Cavendish said, but not enough to start liking him.
The audience's mood has changed and they start cheering for Cavendish as Gatz comments that Cavendish's charisma is palpable. Another gladiator tries to compliment him, saying even though he did not predict the audience would not react this way and that their behavior is quite fickle, however, he does not get to finish his compliment. Cavendish suddenly realizes he suddenly has popularity for the first time in three years, catching the gladiator off guard. Rebecca comes up to Cavendish and thanks him for what he just did. Cavendish tells her he only did it because they irritated him and that she should ignore it because they are now enemies. His imagination then runs away with him, and he asks if there are any reporters nearby, saying it would be "tragic" if this event made it into the papers and the press got an interview with him. Gatz announces that everyone in block D has assembled, a total of 137 people, only one competitor having been dropped prior to the start of the round as the starting bell goes off. The gladiators start fighting as seven of the favored fighters from earlier are shown: Cavendish, Suleiman, Mummy, Rolling Logan, Damask, Orlumbus, and Rebecca.
The scene changes to the Flower Field where Kabu and Bian's squads have just arrived. Leo declares that the day of reckoning is upon them. Thunder Soldier is trying to inspire the troops, stirring their sense of loyalty to the former king. The plan has taken over a year to come together, and they can win even against a Shichibukai. Usopp is listening to the plan so he can find out the best time to run away.
Back in Acacia, Wicca is trying to guide Zoro, telling him that left is the side where his swords are not. She explains that Giolla is attacking the Thousand Sunny and gives him a rundown of her powers. She tells Zoro that she cannot forget the names, faces, and abilities of the three people who defeated the entire Dressrosa army ten years ago: Diamante, Trebol, and Pica. Sanji and Kin'emon see Zoro nearby and get his attention. Zoro introduces them to Wicca as Curlyland and Top-knotland. Sanji and Kin'emon are quickly brought up to speed on the situation back on the ship, and decide to go with Zoro to save them. Violet peeks out from behind a corner and tells Sanji that their ship was taken by Giolla and is en route to Green Bit.
On the Thousand Sunny, Giolla has turned the waves into musical staffs. Brook is happy to have her art, and Giolla is glad to have found someone with taste. Nami asks if they are really going to Green Bit, and Giolla tells them to imagine the look on Law's face when she shows up instead of them. Chopper proclaims Brook to have gone crazy and asks if he really is betraying them while Momonosuke says Brook has no right to call himself a swordsman. Brook tells them that a musician is just another kind of artist, and he exists to make art. Giolla tells Brook his friends will never understand their passion. The shot changes to show that Nami, Chopper, and Momonosuke are trapped in a sort of mural that Giolla has named Dying Art, saying it perfectly portrays the tragedy of Dressrosa, and that those inside the mural will stop breathing in ten minutes. Brook proclaims he must write a song for this momentous occasion, and asks Giolla to restore his violin and sword to their original state so he may play. She obliges as Chopper starts to lose consciousness. Brook shows Giolla how his bow is also a cane, and says he already cut her, walking away from her as his Ekaki Uta Hitoyogiri takes effect. Chopper is relieved that Brook helped them as he starts to return to normal.
On Green Bit, Doflamingo is telling Law about how the twenty kings created the World Government. Nineteen of the twenty families decided to move to Mary Geoise, the Nefertari family being the only one who did not go. The descendants of the kings, the World Nobles, still live there today. This meant nineteen countries had to elect new royalty and new families were established. He says that the new ruling family in Dressrosa was the Riku Family, while the family that left for Mary Geoise was the Donquixote Family.


Zoro and Kin'emon stand outside the Colosseum, after talking to Sanji and discussing their plan. Sanji decides to go save Nami, gives Kin'emon the map to the toy house, and leaves with Violet to find their ship. Meanwhile, Zoro and Kin'emon are looking for a way to enter the Corrida Colosseum while trying not to draw any attention to themselves. However, they've already been spotted by Bartolomeo, who gushes over seeing one of his idols, Zoro; he goes on to think about the man he considers the first mate of the crew, due to his deeds in Whisky Peak and Enies Lobby.
Meanwhile, Baby 5 and Gladius are upset with Violet's betrayal, and discuss her punishment, with Gladius mentioning that Violet has some sort of far seeing ability.
Meanwhile, Sanji and Violet are racing towards the Thousand Sunny on a toy horse. Violet tells Sanji that the port is full of Marines and reveals to him that she is able to see what is happening on the island using her Devil Fruit powers, which has a radius of 4000 km. Suddenly, she sees the ship get struck by lightning.
Back on the ship, the Straw Hats and Momonosuke, aboard a restored Thousand Sunny, are finished beating up Giolla, and head for Green Bit. They discuss Doflamingo leaving the Shichibukai, which makes Giolla laugh and exclaim that her captain would never do such a thing. This annoys Nami, and she strikes Giolla with a thunderbolt again.
On Green Bit, Doflamingo taunts Law, only for Law to mention that it isn't necessarily Caesar's heart Doflamingo has got hold of. Doflamingo cold heartedly squeezes the heart, and one of Fujitora's subordinates cries out in pain, angering the Admiral. The sound of the thunder bolt attracts the attention of Fujitora, who asks Doflamingo if he can see any clouds overhead. When Law realizes that it is probably Nami, he escapes the Admiral's gravity powers using Shambles, switching places with a rock, and successfully retrieving Caesar Clown. The rock he swapped places with is crushed by Fujitora's ability, and Law starts to run with Caesar, while Doflamingo chases them. Law plans to send Caesar to the ship while he attempts to lead Doflamingo onto the bridge, in order to stall him there and provide time for the others to escape with Caesar.
Meanwhile, the Thousand Sunny is approaching Green Bit, but is suddenly attacked by Fighting Fish. The crew begins to panic, which attracts the attention of Doflamingo to the incoming ship. Doflamingo heads towards the Thousand Sunny, telling Law he's going to kill all of them, when suddenly Sanji arrives and confronts Doflamingo.


Sanji attacks Doflamingo with Diable Jambe and Doflamingo easily dodges while casually asking if the person attacking him is "Black Leg" Sanji. Sanji uses Premiere Hachi and Doflamingo dodges again. Doflamingo then uses his Goshikito attack on Sanji and lands a hit. He then turns his sights back on the Thousand Sunny, much to the horror of those watching from it. As Doflamingo is about to go to the ship, Sanji uses Poele a Frire: Spectre. Doflamingo blocks the attack but admits it is pretty powerful. He then takes control of Sanji. His crew mates panic at seeing him immobilized while Giolla simply laughs and says that all who fight her master while remaining ignorant of his abilities are reduced to, being immobilized and at his mercy. Nami yells at Sanji to run. A whip extends from Doflamingo's hand and he is about to use it on Sanji in a move called Overheat. Nami and Brook ready their weapons in an attempt to do something to help, but Sanji tells them to leave him and run, ordering Nami to use the Coup de Burst to escape.
From the shore, Law sees the events transpiring in the air, and quickly throws a log while using Shambles, having put a Room around himself, Caesar, Doflamingo, and Sanji. Law quickly switches places with the log and then moves everyone out of Doflamingo's path. Doflamingo has no time to halt his attack, and releases Overheat with such power that it reaches all the way to Dressrosa and slices a building in half, surprising and confusing any bystanders. Law, Caesar, and Sanji make a rough landing onto the ship's deck. Caesar is mortified to be back on the ship and orders Giolla to help him, but she cannot, having been placed in the same situation. Doflamingo is heading back to the ship now, unhappy that he let his guard down. Chopper cries out that Doflamingo is coming back again. Law asks Sanji how destroying the factory is going. Sanji tells him they know where it is, but destroying it won't be so easy. Momonosuke asks Sanji where his father and Kanjuro are. Sanji tells him that they are also at the factory and Law realizes they need more time. Caesar sees Law holding a heart and asks if he just took that from the boat. Law tells Caesar that the heart in his hand is his own, and he was hiding Caesars in his own chest cavity.
Law tells the crew to take Caesar and head for Zou right away. Nami is confused and Law explains that he already gave them a Vivre Card that would lead them there. Brook asks what will happen to Luffy and the others if they go now. Law assures them that they will follow the ship as soon as the factory is destroyed. Nami is against this idea, saying they cannot leave without their captain and that they are called the Straw Hat Pirates for a reason. Before the argument can continue, from out of Green Bit comes a Marine battleship, flying over the island. To make matters worse, Doflamingo is now in range to attack on the other side. Law tells them they can stay if they want, but cannot hand Caesar over no matter what. An officer gives the order to fire, which the ship's cannons are, however, something else is descending on the Thousand Sunny, meteors. A frightened Nami tells Law that the "Spiral Hat" Pirates are ready to go. Sanji tells Law that he understands him wanting to keep Caesar away, but Dressrosa was supposed to only be a small stepping stone for the overall plan, and tells Law he seems to be a little too fixated on Doflamingo.
Law uses Tact to redirect a meteor into the hull of the battleship. On board the ship, a soldier reports to Admiral Fujitora that the ship had been hit. Issho, while eating a bowl of noodles casually observes that the hit was due to his miscalculation, having not planned for Law to be with them. He gives the order to head back to Dressrosa, noting how the tides have turned. Doflamingo uses Overheat again and makes contact with something on the Thousand Sunny's deck. Law has intercepted the rope and it is now wrapped around Kikoku. Law tells Sanji to find a place without clouds and stay there. Doflamingo ate the Ito Ito no Mi, which allows him to wield strings, which includes casting them through clouds as a means of moving across the sky. Chopper yells for them to go as Law holds his sword at Giolla's neck to keep Doflamingo at bay, even though she told Doflamingo not to worry about her. Coup de Burst is activated and the ship takes off.
On the bridge between Green Bit and Dressrosa, Doflamingo asks Law the point of only letting half the crew escape, saying he could easily use the remaining members as hostages. Law tells him that doing so would only make Doflamingo a part of the many people who would regret underestimating that crew. Law tells Doflamingo that his alliance with the Straw Hats is now over, much to Doflamingo's surprise, as it cuts to a shot of Luffy cheering followed by a shot of those aboard the Thousand Sunny trying to contact the others. Law tells them that the alliance was purely to halt the production of Smile, cutting to shots of Zoro and Kin'emon as well as Robin, Franky, and Usopp. Law tells him that even if he dies here, as long as the factory is destroyed, Doflamingo will still have to face Kaidou's wrath. Doflamingo is impressed by Law's plan. Law tells him that as much as he would love to watch the chaos following the factory's destruction, getting revenge for what Doflamingo did thirteen years ago comes first.

Doflamingo demands to know what Law plans to do with Giolla, since his Family will do anything to help their captain. Law simply switches her with a rock and allows her to flee, which she doesn't wait to do. Doflamingo states Law's grudge is just his pettiness of his past loss, but Law disagrees, claiming he plans to fulfill the dedication of a person he knew. Thus the two begin to clash on the bridge, with Law using his powers to create an explosion.
Out at sea, Nami's group are trying to get back to Dressrosa while being on the lookout for Dolflamingo. Chopper is worried about Law while Sanji calls Usopp and finds out he's with Robin and Franky. Upon hanging up, he notices Momonosuke quite unnerved over something. Momonosuke tells him that he witnessed Doflamingo cruelly torture a subordinate for his failure in the arena when he had previously visited the island with his father and their friend, Kanjuro. After this, Kanjuro suggested they flee the island, but he was captured in the process, prompting Momonosuke to worry about his safety.
Sanji listens passively as he thinks about Violet. A flashback showing that while they were riding on a toy horse, Violet had told him she had someone in the Government waiting for her to take her off the island and thanks Sanji for his help. He tried to get her to kiss him on the cheek but she saw the school of Fighting Fish attacking the Sunny in her visions causing Sanji to take off to go help the others.
Back in the present, Violet rides past a few people viewing the D-Block fight on a monitor. She shoots and destroys it with a pistol before asking the toy horse to take her back to the palace.
At the Colosseum, Bartolomeo has gotten the attention of Zoro and Kin'emon. He cries in joy, and is later told to inform Luffy that they are looking for him. He agrees, requesting Zoro's autograph as the reward from the request.
In the ring, Rebecca is managing to hold her own by staying near the edge of the arena and knocking off the opponents who try to attack her. The announcer reveals that she has managed to win all her battles this way without causing any harm to her opponents. However she is soon confronted by Rolling Logan, who sets his sights on her and threatens to break every bone in her body.
The defeated gladiators are trapped underneath the Colosseum.Meanwhile inside the Colosseum's Underground Medical Room, Sai demands to know why his grandfather hasn't left the surgery yet. The guards state that he exited through a different room, which Sai accepts and profusely over-apologizes for. He takes his turn to be treated, but once on the examination table the guards open a trapdoor underneath him and drop him into a dark, vast underground chamber. As Sai's eyes adjust to the dark, he sees that everyone else who has lost in the tournament, along with countless broken toys, have likewise been dumped there. As the former contestants wonder what's going on, Chinjao vows he will hold a grudge against Doflamingo for his actions until his grandchild's generation.


More of the losing contestants of Block C of the tournament are dumped into the pit, and the group of fighters ponders how to escape. Ricky is amazed that such a place exists underneath the kingdom. Tank notices something about Ricky and steps forth, before hesitantly asking if he's the former king of Dressrosa. Ricky, having no reason to hide his identity any longer, removes his helmet and confirms that he is indeed the former king, Riku Doldo III. Tank weeps in happiness once this is revealed, as he was a former solider within the Riku army, even having entered the tournament to keep a watch over Rebecca. Elizabello II is likewise happy to see him and hugs him forcefully, stating that Doldo used to help out his kingdom in time of need. Sai, Boo and Chinjao are less accommodating however, and they confront King Doldo with the knowledge that Doflamingo rose to power due to his actions, which lead to his prominence as a black market arms dealer who would supply weapons to the enemies of the Kingdom of Kano. Sai also states this is the reason why the Happo Navy are in Dressrosa, to find and cripple Doflamingo's weapon supply. Daguma likewise talks ill about Doldo, but Tank steps forth and defends his former king. The pair argue, with Lepanto stating the events concerning Doldo's fall and Doflamingo's rise are uncertain, but Doldo stops him and makes both of them back down. Most of the gladiators also reveal that they are former members of his army. A few of the broken toys unexpectedly arise from the pile and they, along with the former soldiers, bow to Doldo to the shock of everyone present. Hack reports to someone on a Den Den Mushi.
Suddenly, a glob lowers onto Sai and snatches him into the ceiling, and before anyone can react he is dragged through a tunnel into a dark room. An unseen process occurs, including Trebol ordering him to a factory; at the end of which, Sai finds himself turned into a toy monkey without control over his body, compelled to follow Trebol's orders as he marches out of a door into the public.
Outside the prison cells, Luffy continues to cheer for Rebecca but begins to have trouble viewing her. He gets up to get a better look, and as he does he voices his concerns for Dressrosa, stating he can not help but wonder if something is amiss about the country. The prisoner-gladiators agree, stating that due to Doflamingo's rule, he has hidden the true, ugly nature of the island from his inhabitants and that losers like them are treated like living trash and are hidden away. Luffy immediately draws a parallel in his head to the Grey Terminal of his hometown of Goa Kingdom. The gladiators give him a warning to be careful as he leaves. As soon as he turns a corner into a crowded area, he is spotted by Bartolomeo, who screams and cries in admiration on finding him.
Back at the Flower Fields, Gancho explains the past of the Tontatta Kingdom. 900 years ago, the dwarves had come to Dressrosa to find resources for their people. The former rulers, the Donquixote Family, had promised to help them, but in truth they enslaved them and forced them to make jewels and trinkets for them alone, away from the public eye. Not even they are certain of the events of that time, as it occurred during the Void Century, but eventually at the end of the 100 years the Riku Family took over as the rulers of Dressrosa. On learning of the plight of Tontatta, the king pleaded for forgiveness and offered to help them. The kingdom flourished during those peaceful years, with the dwarves granted lease to take small items from the humans of the island in the guise of fairies in return for small acts of kindness and the planting of flowers across the kingdom - until Doflamingo, heir of the Donquixotes, came to the island and through treachery overthrew the Riku Family and regained the throne. The tribe is determined not to go back to those dark days and plans to fight with all they have. After being told this, Robin asks Thunder Soldier about Rebecca and why the people hate her. He reveals it was due to the actions of Riku Doldo, who believed he was doing the best he could for the country, but who was misled into doing something terrible. The truth was hidden from the common citizens, who were led to see him as a bad and unfit king and revile him. The soldier tried his best to protect his granddaughter, but ultimately she was caught and thrown in the coliseum. Usopp then asks who he really is, to which the soldier reveals that he is Rebecca's father.

In the Corrida Colosseum, the crowd accuses Rebecca of running around and avoiding the fight, while Rolling Logan is chasing her, knocking out other contestants in the process.
Thunder Soldier explains to Usopp, Franky and Nico Robin, how the former king Riku lost the faith of his people and, eventually, the throne. Dressrosa used to be a fairly poor country but the people were happy and grateful for their king, whose family had managed to keep their land out of war for a whole 800 years.
One night, however, ten years ago, Doflamingo appeared in the king's chambers. Riku recognized him as a descendant of the Donquixote family, and commented on his feats as a pirate, which include stealing money from the Celestial Dragons and blackmailing the World Government to attain the position of Shichibukai. Doflamingo states his demand, asking for a 10 billion fee by dawn, in order to leave the country alone. Riku panics at first, but then decides there is no other way, if he wants to avoid a war, so he gathers his soldiers and asks them to collect all of the citizens' money, without informing them of the situation.
Tank Lepanto, as commander of the army, takes on his king's will and spreads his men across the island, asking for the people to give their fortune, as the king needs it right now. The people are reluctant at first, but seeing their king begging on his knees, via a video Den Den Mushi, they are eventually persuaded. Tank is moved to see everyone giving away their treasures, without even asking for a reason and marks that this shows huge faith.
Just as the money was being gathered, Riku appears in the city of Sevio, riding his horse. The king, with tears in his eyes, starts attacking innocent people and destroying everything in his path, while begging for everyone to stay away from him. Soon, the soldiers follow the king's deeds also unable to control their movement. In the shadows, Doflamingo is seen, along with his crew, using his Devil Fruit ability to control Riku and his soldiers, waiting for the right moment to interfere and act as a saving hero in the eyes of Dressrosa's confused citizens.

The citizens of Dressrosa plea for their king to stop attacking his own people, saying the least he could do is spare their lives after they so willingly gave him all their money. The officers at the palace are confused about what to do. One of them states the king looked strange when he left the palace, but never imagined he would do something as awful as that. Another officer deems the problem to no longer be an internal matter and orders that the Marines be called. He is told that Captain Vergo is on his way as Doldo's daughter looks on nervously. She then notices that it is snowing and asks Monet what she is doing, having opened the palace doors without permission. Monet, addressing the woman as Princess Viola, simply laughs and says that if the princess knew how to use her Senrigan properly, she would know that by opening the gates, Monet is welcoming in the new royal family. Guards report a fire in the eastern tower, declaring that pirates have invaded the palace and that Viola has been captured. Monet is then seen holding Viola hostage as several prominent members of the Donquixote Pirates barge through the gates. The guards try to stop them, ordering Monet to let the princess go. Giolla simply jokes that things are about to get busy for them while Lao G more bluntly states that they need to purge the palace.
Meanwhile, king Riku's rampage continues. The king is lamenting the atrocities he is committing, begging someone to kill him. Citizens and guards alike are in tears over the actions being committed. The people wonder why the king is doing this now after always being such a benevolent ruler. The people then begin to curse the Riku name, calling their king human trash. The army is charging through the streets, toward a man on the ground tending to an injured woman. Another man yells for him to run, but the first man only cries out for help. Just before the guards reach him, three large legs appear and kick them away. Someone asks who they are, and Donquixote Doflamingo, sitting atop Diamante, Trebol and Pica, declares that they are there to save the country, and then introduces himself. The people are shocked that pirates of all people would come to their rescue, even though they did defeat the Riku army. Doflamingo secretly is wishing for the people to embrace the violence going on. Doflamingo, after kicking Riku off his horse, orders Trebol, Diamante, and Pica to get rid of the people that are making this country so toxic. The people start cheering for Doflamingo as Thunder Soldier ends the flashback, explaining how Doflamingo took over in just one night.
Usopp comments that the story is something only seen in nightmares. Robin remarks on how truly cunning Doflamingo is while a crying Franky calls his actions unforgivable. Gancho sadly admits that, at the time, the Dwarves had believed Riku to be bad as well, saying how ashamed he is to have doubted the king. Usopp then concludes that Riku was probably charged for his war crimes and executed, but Thunder Soldier tells him that in fact the king is still alive. He explains that Doflamingo really liked Viola's ability, which Viola used to her advantage and struck a deal with him. She would follow his orders as long as he did not kill her father. She now serves as a subordinate for Doflamingo, working in his executive staff under the name Violet. The soldier adds that the king is still alive somewhere in the country thanks to her. But one cannot possibly know the suffering she and her father have gone through. He adds that the same is true for the loyal soldiers involved. Robin asks if they were executed and Thunder Soldier replies that some were while others declared their loyalty to Doflamingo then and there, becoming his personal guard. Franky gets angry at the soldiers for their disloyalty. A brief flashback shows Doflamingo exonerating the soldiers, saying that they were under orders from the king, and asks the people if he could take them in as subordinates. Thunder Soldier adds that he also made a difficult decision. He explains that those who were killed and those who defected only make up a small portion of the country's army.
The soldier goes on to say that he, too, should have lost his memories, asking Franky if he remembered what he saw in town, recalling their conversation with the toy Milo. He explains that while toys retain their memories, everyone around them completely forgets their existence. The soldier declares this to be the greatest tragedy of Dressrosa, and is even worse for those who are toys. Robin asks if that means that some toys have forgotten who they are. And the soldier tells her she is correct. He goes on to say that all those who become toys remember their hatred of Doflamingo. Doflamingo might have put those with rebellious ideas in the shadows, but by the same token is also making a powder keg ready to explode. The key to the dwarves' strategy is the number of tragedies caused by Doflamingo. Franky realizes that the plan is to shift the battle in their favor by having every toy rebel and fight with them. Usopp interrupts, reminding them their objective is to destroy the factory, after which they can oust Doflamingo out of the country. Usopp tries to get Robin on his side but she declares Doflamingo's actions unforgivable.
Leo begins to rally the troops, saying that what happened this morning can only be seen as a call to war, adding that it cannot be a coincidence that "Usoland" arrived when he did and it is a sign from above to fight now. Upon further inquiry, Usopp learns that the event from this morning to which Leo is referring is Doflamingo's fake resignation. The army saw it as a miracle, only to find out that the newspapers ran a false report, crushing their hopes. That was when they decided to put an end to their oppression this day. Usopp, Robin, and Franky look at them in shock, all apologizing for their actions in their minds.
Changing to the scrap heap under the colosseum, Riku is talking to Chinjao, saying he heard the pirate retired, yet he still is in charge of his fleet. Chinjao replies he needs someone to inherit the Happo Navy since he doesn't have any grandchildren. Riku comments that no one has it easy these days, while thinking to himself that something felt off about Chinjao's statement, remembering the same feeling ten years ago. While they are talking, Boo, Abdullah and Jeet have all been turned into toys.
Outside the building, Luffy is talking to Zoro and Kin'emon through a window. They tell Luffy to quiet down and Luffy tells them "Roosterhead" (Bartolomeo) told him where to go. When they ask him where he is, Luffy tells them he started foaming at the mouth on the way over. As he is saying this, Bellamy is approaching him from the side, saying he finally found him.

Bellamy is about to attack Luffy, claiming it is nothing personal, but he is doing it to become one of the leaders of the Donquixote Family. Dellinger appears behind him revealing that Bellamy is considered an eyesore for the family, and that he intends to kill him. He also admitted, by a slip of the tongue, that the order for Bellamy's disposal came from Doflamingo himself.
At the iron bridge of Dressrosa, Law and Doflamingo are seen clashing. Law manages to scar Doflamingo in the face, but Doflamingo has the upper hand in the fight overall and manages to knock Law down. Diamante calls to inform his captain about Violet's betrayal, to which he replies that he had that already figured out, since he saw Black Leg showing up out of the blue. Doflamingo orders Diamante to send Lao G to the entrance of the Smile Factory and handle the entertainment of the crowd in the Colosseum by himself. Doflamingo has Law's plan figured out. He knows Law wants to stall him there in order to provide time for his allies to destroy the factory, but still wonders why, although he claims to be using them, he has so much faith in Luffy and his crew. Law answers that he believes "D" will bring forth another storm.
Luffy meets with Zoro and Kin'emon at the Colosseum and Zoro complains to Luffy for not inviting him to participate at the tournament. Some marine sees through Zoro's disguise and informs Vice Admiral Bastille, who figures out that Lucy is none other than Straw Hat Luffy, but still decides to do nothing for the time being, not wanting to compromise his mission to arrest all the fighters of the tournament. Going through the list of fighters they are supposed to arrest, however, the Marines find it odd that they only recognize Don Chinjao's name.
Kin'emon calls Sanji via Den Den Mushi, who in turn calls Usopp, so that all the Straw Hat Pirates can have a meeting and discuss their stories so far. Franky informs his crew mates that an anti-Donquixote army exists, the Riku army, consisting of dwarves and led by Thunder Soldier (whom he and Luffy met earlier at the Colosseum), who intend to act fast and overthrow Doflamingo today. Luffy realizes the soldier is the same Rebecca was talking about and, fearing for his life, asks Franky to prevent the army from acting. However, Franky states that he sympathizes with the Dwarves and wants to help them defeat their oppressor and reveal the darkness under Dressrosa's bliss, despite that going against their original plan. Hearing their crew mate's plea, Sanji orders his group to turn back and head for Dressrosa, and Luffy allows Franky to go all out, saying that they soon will come to join them.
Issho and his subordinates have arrived at the shores of Dressrosa on their ship. A marine informs the Admiral that there is a skirmish in the city, to which Issho states that they must hurry. In the city, Kin'emon and Zoro witness huge buildings being cut in half and wonder what this is all about. Suddenly, a huge explosion takes place right in front of them. When the smoke clears, they see Doflamingo standing and on the ground a badly beaten and bleeding Law. Doflamingo, wearing a serious face mocks Law for thinking he was a match for him. He then takes out a pistol and shoots Law three times, to everyone's surprise. Luffy calls his ally's name in desperation. Law is thinking of someone named Cora while slowly losing consciousness.


As the Straw Hat Pirates yells out across the Den Den Mushi, questioning what the commotion is about, Doflamingo soothes the citizens, blaming Law for the "Abdication Incident" that occurred earlier that day. When Luffy angrily demands to know what the Warlord has done, Doflamingo states that it is none of his business and that, since Law was his former subordinate, he is entitled to "discipline" him.
Zoro then quickly charges at Doflamingo, asking Kin'emon to take Law out of danger. The marines ask Vice-Admiral Bastille permission to apprehend the pirate hunter, but he orders them to stay put. The samurai quickly informs everyone across the line of what has happened while agreeing with Zoro that they both should be on their toes. Doflamingo recognizes Kin'emon and assumes that the boy he saw on the ship was his son, Momonosuke.
As Zoro tries to land a swing on Doflamingo, Admiral Fujitora appears out of nowhere and blocks his attack. Using his ability the Admiral pins Zoro down, however the swordsman responds sending a flying slash, which gets repelled rather effortlessly. At the same time, Kin'emon manages to reach Law, but before the samurai could recover him, Doflamingo kicks him back. Luffy tries to help his friends, but only then realizes that the bars in the windows of the Colosseum are made of Seastone. The entire crew is then shocked to find out that the man assisting Doflamingo is actually a Marine Admiral.
Doflamingo and Issho float above their opponents using their abilities, taking Law with them, and plan to head towards the palace. The Shichibukai promises to explain everything to the Admiral, who replies that he will reserve judgment until their conversation is complete. Zoro and Kin'emon realize the Marines have seen through their disguise and decide to make a run for it. Luffy claims he can still hear Law's voice and Zoro tells him to hurry up and find a way out, while they distract their pursuers.
It is then, that they hear the crew members aboard the Thousand Sunny panicking over the Den Den Mushi. Their ship is being approached by, what seems to be, a huge talking ship, which belongs to the Big Mom Pirates, although Sanji can not tell if the Emperor herself is on board. Pekoms and Tamago confirm that Caesar Clown is on the Sunny and state their intention to sink the ship and retrieve the scientist. Caesar explains that he once stole research funds from Big Mom in the past, and that is probably why he is now being targeted. As the ship opens fire, Franky asks the Sunny team to lead the Emperor away from Dressrosa so that their mission does not get compromised.
Nami explains that they need to head to Zou, for three reasons: firstly to keep Momonosuke and Caesar away from Doflamingo; secondly because if they lead the Emperor's crew towards Dressrosa, the chaos will ruin the revolution; and lastly, to ensure that Law's sacrifice is not in vain, and to allow Franky, Robin and Usopp to carry out the plan and destroy the SMILE factory.
Luffy approves of the plan to head to Zou and gives Sanji permission to fire back at Big Mom's ship. Franky's group prepares to head towards the SMILE factory, while Luffy plans to head to the palace with Zoro and Kin'emon in order to defeat Doflamingo and recover their ally.

Bellamy is seen panting and hurt badly on the ground, with Bartolomeo having formed a barrier to protect him from Dellinger. Dellinger injures his leg trying to break through the barrier and shouts to Bartolomeo to get out of the way and let him finish his mission, but Bartolomeo refuses. Having been given a new mission by Diamante to go and guard the SMILE factory, Dellinger decides to leave Bellamy be but promises to deal with both of them later. Bellamy wonders why a stranger like Bartolomeo was helping him, to which Bartolomeo replies that once he fights along with someone, he considers him a friend.
Back at the Flower Hill, Thunder Soldier is briefing everyone about his plan, called Dressrosa Operation SOP. He goes on to explain the existence of a secret underground world operating in Dressrosa, which involves illegal transactions. The factory, which is also tied to the underworld, function with the labor of the captured Tontatta citizens and the people turned to toys. The resistance has been building a secret tunnel, which they will now use to enter the area and destroy the factory. Before that, however, they must succeed in defeating an agent of Doflamingo, in order to make her power lose effect thus returning the toys into their human selves and restoring the citizens' memories. Hopefully, by achieving that, more people would join their cause. When asked by Usopp where that Devil Fruit user is, Thunder Soldier answers she must be at the underground port and, due to her Devil fruit's side effect, which has kept her from aging, she is guarded by Trebol himself. Usopp rejoices, when he hears he is up against a little girl and a pumped up Franky asks the Dwarves to take them to the underground tunnel.
Back at the Colosseum, Luffy, who was looking for an exit, bumps into Bartolomeo and Bellamy. Bartolomeo, excited to meet his idol again, asks him reluctantly if he met with Zoro. When Luffy states his desire to find an exit, Bellamy tells him that such a thing does not exist in the Colosseum, because it was built in a way to prevent the contestants from escaping once they enter. Luffy, surprised, asks Bellamy to show him the exit, since he must know where it is, being Doflamingo's subordinate. Bellamy shouts he would never betray his captain, but says that he will be heading for the exit himself, so if Luffy was to follow him he could find the exit, too. Bartolomeo wonders why Luffy would give up the fight for the Mera Mera no Mi, to which Luffy replies that his friends' lives are more important. Bartolomeo promises to get the fruit and give it to Luffy, which was his original plan anyway.
At that point, a man walks in stating that the fire fruit cannot go to Straw Hat Luffy. Bartolomeo confronts him for speaking to his idol like that, but the man simply pushes him away. Upon looking at the mysterious man, Luffy is greatly shocked and starts shedding tears of joy.
Meanwhile, the battle for block D rages on. Rebecca has teamed up with Acilia, who wants to push her to the finals. Together they have taken out a number of competitors.
When Luffy finally finds his way out, he meets with Zoro and Kin'emon again, with the latter providing animal outfits for the three of them, in order to escape the Marines and leave the area unnoticed. Zoro is irritated by Luffy's non-stop crying and tells him to cut it out. Luffy, still sobbing and shocked, wonders how is it possible for "that man" to be still alive.
A young woman is seen sitting on top of a bunch of defeated men, speaking through a Den Den Mushi, stating that Robin is in this country and that she desires to see her again. The woman is none other than Koala, who has become a member of the Revolutionary Army and is a Fish-Man Karate assistant instructor. She goes on to ask the receiver of the call, if he met the man he was looking for and if he had any news on the situation underground. Then the man is shown, who is the same man seen talking to Luffy earlier, wearing "Lucy"'s attire, stating that he has to go get Ace's fruit back and inherit his power.
A flashback of Ace's grave is then shown, with three cups in front of it, confirming that the mysterious man was none other than Sabo, who was presumed to be long dead by his brothers.

With the Army moving out, the Thunder Soldier, Robin, Usopp and Franky move out. While Leo shows them a secret passage to the underground, Usopp notes it's very narrow and Franky is too large to go through, as he and Robin alone are barely able to fit. Leo apologizes, mentioning large humans weren't meant for the passage. Franky asks how he can find another way in and the soldier reveals he can go through the Toy House above ground, but is against that idea. He reveals it's only called a house because of its appearance, but there are no beds inside and all the toys continue to work even in night. Usopp then asks if that means that all the toys over Dressrosa are tired even now from working all day and night and the soldier says it's true with the exception of himself. Franky decides to go through the house alone, stating if he causes a commotion up there then they can take out Sugar much easier.
Franky arrives at the toy house as the lower members recognize him as "Cyborg Franky". They then report to Senor Pink. Pink is seen eating a tomato while a woman tells him not to eat it since it will get messy. But he ignores her and rips her swimsuit off to use it as a napkin. However, the women are swooned by him while he tells him they should go after younger men despite their claim. When he says he doesn't like children, they swoon again calling him "hard-boiled". Franky doesn't seem to care what's going on and uses his coup do vent and attacks the house. As that is going on, Doflamingo, Diamante, Pica and Trebol can hear the commotion via den den mushi.
In the underground tunnel, the dwarves explains to Usopp the size of the Donquixote Family and the identities and strengths of the officers who are running the operations. As they reach the end of the tunnel, the army find themselves directly underneath the palace plateau where the huge harbor is located. Unnoticed by anyone, the army prepares to find their target, Sugar who is guarded by Trebol himself. They all arrive underground into a portyard as Usopp reacts shocked by the size of it.

The colosseum D block battle is almost over with nearly 30 fighters remaining with Rebecca among them. One fighter, Suleiman, fights Rebecca while Orlumbus defeats Agyo.
At the Hidden Harbor, Usopp learned from the dwarves that Thunder Soldier left the group in order to assassinate Doflamingo at his palace, leaving Usopp in command of the army much to his disbelief. Though they were nearly caught by some soldiers the dwarves easily subdued them with a fighting style called "Tontatta Combat" and their clothes were given to Usopp and Robin for disguise.
Near the Harbor elevator, many soldiers were rushing towards the elevator to see the battle between Franky and Senor Pink, unaware that Thunder Soldier and a few dwarves were hiding inside a crate in the lift. Seeing no other way, Thunder Soldier assaults the soldiers in order to hijack the lift. During battle, he recalls his training of Rebecca to teach her battle instinct. He then declares his goal to restore Dressrosa to King Riku's rule.
At the colosseum, an unexplained event caused every fighter in the arena to fall unconscious one after another. Before anyone could speculate what happened, an unidentified fighter is seen getting up in the arena.

In the D block battle, after 20 contestants are knocked out, Gatz sees that someone is attempting to stand in the middle of the block, and that person is Rebecca. As it is announced that Rebecca is the block winner, the crowd begins booing her, claiming that she must have cheated. Meanwhile, at the prisoner gladiator quarters, Rebecca's friends cheer for her victory.
Outside the Colosseum, Vice Admiral Bastille tells a marine about the Kamaitachi of Rommel. He says that some time ago in the kingdom of Rommel a strange wind was blowing during the night, that had the power to cut people up. After a series of mysterious events, the Marines decided to send a battle ship to investigate the matter. Many Marines lost their lives to that "wind" but they finally managed to find out that the culprit behind the wind was actually a man named Hakuba. Despite not being able to capture him, they deduced that Hakuba appears in the towns where a certain pirate stops.
In the Colosseum, Rebecca sees Cavendish unconscious before her and she remembers that as she was fighting Suleiman in the battle, suddenly Cavendish fell asleep. The other gladiators noticed this and took the opportunity to take him out. As they were about to attack him, Cavendish woke up with a sinister expression and slashed all the other gladiators so fast, that they didn't even see him coming. However, Rebecca was able to see through his movements and barely managed to avoid his strike, which hit her helmet instead. Cavendish then fell asleep again returning to his normal form.
Back outside the Colosseum, Bastille continues with his explanation about Hakuba, telling the soldiers that Cavendish turns into Hakuba when he falls asleep and that Hakuba was the one who went out to sea after committing various crimes. The other Marines start sympathizing with Cavendish, but Bastille corrects them, saying that Cavendish actually enjoys the popularity his alter ego offers him. Finally, Bastille notes that while Cavendish is a strong swordsman, Hakuba is even better than him in terms of strength and speed and it's just unfortunate for him that Cavendish's ability doesn't work well in a match-style fight.
In the Colosseum the crowd accuses Rebecca of secretly carrying a gun. Lucy who was watching this, next to Bartolomeo, says that it probably wasn't just luck that allowed Rebecca to avoid those attacks, but anyways he wouldn't let anyone touch the Mera Mera no Mi.
In the palace, Doflamingo and the captured Riku Doldo III are observing the outcome of the battles. Doflamingo is certain that Luffy won't make it out of the Colosseum and that Franky, who is causing a ruckus at the moment, will be defeated by his associates. He states that their only pieces left are Zoro, Kin'emon, Robin and Sogeking. An unconscious Law is shown chained to the heart seat.
Luffy, Zoro and Kin'emon reach the palace's entrance, as Wicca revealed that it was one of the ways to enter the factory. There, they met Viola who claimed that she was waiting for them to lead them inside the palace.

In the Colosseum, it is announced that Diamante will be making an appearance. Upon hearing this, the crowd begins to cheer for him. Meanwhile, the fighters of block D that got injured are being rushed to the infirmary and along with them is Cavendish who is still asleep.
Rebecca goes to tell Lucy that she has made it to the finals, but she immediately notices something different about Lucy. Sabo who is dressed as Lucy says that he more or less knows about Rebecca and that things could get messy in the finals and he cannot guarantee her safety. He also mentions that he does not mean any harm and that everything in Dressrosa is just a facade similar to the place where he was brought up.
At the Royal Plateau near the entrance to the lift, Viola, who just met Luffy, Zoro and Kin'emon, states that she has a pass that will allow them to board the lift leading to the Royal Palace, but if they get discovered it will all be over and in their disguises, Luffy, Zoro, and Kin'emon will draw too much attention. At that moment Zoro remembers that she was the woman that Sanji went after earlier. Viola says that Sanji went to defend their ship but they already knew this. Wicca then peeks out of Zoro's disguise and sees Viola who says that she has been watching her all this time with the help of her ability. She reveals knowing about how the dwarves are working together with the man that took the place of her sister who died and raised Rebecca, the Thunder Soldier.
Wicca gets emotional and starts crying and Viola thanks her for believing in her father. Luffy is surprised to learn that Viola is a princess and assumes that since she is a princess and Rebecca is the granddaughter of the King so she must be Rebecca's mother but she tells him that Rebecca is her sister's daughter and therefore her niece. She then knocks open a door leading to a secret passage whose location was known only to the Riku Family. In order to use the lift, Zoro suggests Luffy would take a boulder and go to the top and then the others would stand on the platform and due to his and the boulder's weight they would reach the top. However, Viola does not seem to be comfortable with this plan.
At the entrance to the Toy House, Franky is fighting with the guards. They then realize that they cannot defeat him and begin to run. Senor Pink is brushing his teeth with a shoebrush. It is revealed that he ate Sui Sui no Mi which allows him to freely swim through floors and walls, but he says that he will not use his power to flee from enemies which earns him praise from his comrades. Franky fires a missile and Senor takes it right on the face without making any attempt to dodge it. Everyone wonders why didn't he try to avoid the hit, but one of his soldiers says that the real reason he took Franky's attack was to save his comrade. Then from behind him, Machvise, who is complaining about his stomach hurting, jumps in the air and smashes on the ground in at attempt to crush Franky, but Franky dodges him. Suddenly, a group of Marines along with Vice-Admiral Bastille appear surrounding the area intending to arrest Franky.
At the Royal Palace, Doflamingo tells Admiral Fujitora that he made a wise choice and that he does not intend on forming an alliance with him. Fujitora replies that if Luffy decides to fight him there will be a lot of destruction and protecting the citizens from that destruction is his "Justice" and that is what he has utilized the Marines for. As for Doflamingo he will deal with him later. Doflamingo is surprised by this statement but, Fujitora continues and says that he accepted the position of Admiral because there were certain things that he wanted to change and one of those things is the total discarding of the Shichibukai system! He also reveals that he knows about the story of Doflamingo hijacking Dressrosa and it is only because he was allowed to run rampant that the country reached such a state.
Upon realizing that Fujitora knows all about his secrets, Doflamingo begins to attack him. Fujitora blocks his attack and continues saying that the balance of the Three Great Powers will be shattered and if Doflamingo keeps on committing crime after crime, the bounty on his head will keep on increasing after the Shichibukai system is abolished. After finding out his true intentions, Doflamingo says that he is going to kill him but Fujitora says that they should continue being friends for the time being. From that point onwards he would protect Dressrosa and ignore all its malpractices. He also says that no matter how much Doflamingo wants the world to be stable, it is bound to stir up because it is the year of the Levely.
In the Colosseum, Koala somehow manages to enter the stadium just in time to watch the finals. The ring that was specially constructed for the final battle is revealed and Sabo dressed as Lucy is the first to enter. As he enters the ring, in his mind he asks Ace to watch over him.

The battle is set to begin as all four contestants and Diamante enter the ring. Gatz reminds the audience of the top tier Logia Devil Fruit waiting for the victor. Although Lucy makes a mental note of Burgess as a member of the Blackbeard Pirates, Rebecca in turn makes a note of Lucy, saying that he is not the same man. However, the group is interrupted as three gladiators rush at Rebecca, saying that they refuse to be beaten by her and that they cannot accept such an outcome. Diamante steps in, telling the gladiators that "results are results" and holds his cape in front of his body. The gladiators rush at him but only injure themselves and break their swords. Diamante announces that this is a result of his Devil Fruit, the Hira Hira no Mi. He reveals that his cape is actually made of steel, only fluttering like a cape due to his powers. Consequently, he 'flutters' his sword into a bull shape and defeats the gladiators easily.
Diamante also informs them that the new fighting fish are "befitting" for such an occasion and are sensitive to the smell of blood. Indeed, a fighting fish charges onto the bridge section and takes the gladiators with it. Gatz informs the audience that these reach contestants inside the ring and are more deadly as they are the "boss class fighting fish of each school". He also reveals that one fish carries a chest with the Mera Mera no Mi inside. Diamante makes this grand announcement, where the victor is the last man standing and the one to retrieve the Devil Fruit from this particular fish. The gong goes off, signalling the start of the five man battle royale.
At the royal palace, Viola tells the others that the doors lead to the ramparts and that there is a secret entrance to which they'll take. She also states that they would have no chance of toppling Doflamingo if the top brass were involved, especially Pica. However, Kin'emon discovers that Luffy is missing but not for long as Luffy attacks the palace doors with a Gigant Pistol. Luffy announces the doors to be open, to which Viola tells the others to hurry through the doors as it is the fastest way of entry. One of the guards recognizes Luffy and informs Doflamingo due to the apparent contradiction. Doflamingo listens as he watches Lucy dodge a fighting fish on screen. Baby 5 tries to confirm the identity of the intruders but the guard replies with the same: Straw Hat Luffy, Zoro and Viola are the intruders. At this Doflamingo becomes extremely enraged asking who is running around the Colosseum as Lucy.
In the lift, Thunder Soldier is getting beaten into a wall by Lao G. Kabu tries to come to the aid of his captain but is easily beaten by Lao G after the latter puts on his glasses to see his tiny assailant. As the dwarves express shock at the presence of an executive officer in the lift, Lao G gives a confusing explanation of how he ended up there, a result of being "mixed up". He affirms his stance as protecting the Toy House and refuses to let them in. However, Thunder Soldier suggests otherwise.
As Luffy, Zoro and Viola advance through the castle, they notice that no guards are chasing them. At this moment, a face begins to form from the castle walls, getting bigger until it produces a full body. Viola curses as this stone monster is Pica of the Spade seat.

At the Royal Palace, Luffy's group stands before Pica, a top executive. Viola reveals that he has eaten the Ishi Ishi no Mi which allows him to merge himself with any type of rock and he has currently merged himself with the palace which is made entirely of stone.This allows him to control the entire palace. He then attempts to crush Luffy and his group between the walls of the palace.
At the Colosseum, as a fighting fish jumps towards him, rather than dodging them Burgess attacks them back with his Surge Elbow causing the fish to crash into one side of the Colosseum. The Colosseum workers order for stretchers for the audience who were injured by the fish and tell Burgess not to injure the audience but he simply laughs it off while the rest of the audience look on in shock. Then the Fighting fish with the Mera Mera no Mi on its back charges towards the contestants in the ring. As it rushes towards Rebecca, Sabo quickly tries to get a hold of the crate containing the Mera Mera no Mi. Diamante assuming that the person under the disguise of Lucy is Luffy and attacks him to prevent him from gaining possession of the crate containing the Mera Mera no Mi. However Sabo breaks Diamante's weapon with his pipe. Burgess attempts to take advantage of the opportunity and take down both of them at the same time. As Burgess takes his stance to prepare for his Surge Elbow, Sabo prepares to take the attack head-on with his Dragon Talons. He reinforces his attack with Busoshoku Haki and punches Burgess. Much to everyone's surprise Burgess's gauntlet shatters due to the force of the collision. Diamante however, realizes the difference between Luffy's and Sabo's fighting style and begins to doubt whether Lucy really is Luffy.
Meanwhile, at the Underground Factory, Usopp notes that toys just keep coming out of the Factory proving that Sugar is in the Factory. He then asks the Dwarves what the tentacle-like things that are connected to the tower are. They explain to him that the one in the center is a lift that leads to the palace while the pipe-like things are tubes that reach the Scrap Heap. It takes people and broken toys from various places and drops them into the Scrap Heap which is below the executive tower.
Inside the Executive Tower, Cavendish is with Trebol and Sugar. Trebol tells him that he is in the Executive Tower which is a Factory-like room from toys are continuously spit out and that it is also known by another name. It is revealed that Trebol has eaten the Beta Beta no Mi. Trebol says that he will not listen to what a brat like him has to say. Cavendish orders Sugar to get the sticky substance by which he is bound off him, but she instead turns him into a toy and makes a contract with him without him even agreeing. The contract states that he will not harm humans and will bow to the orders of the Doflamingo Family. Almost immediately Cavendish loses his free will. Trebol states that now no one remembers who he is and now onwards he will, as a toy, have to work and die for Doflamingo. As a toy he is forced to work with the other toys to smuggle weapons. It is revealed that the other contestants who were taken to the infirmary were also made into toys and are being forced to smuggle weapons.
Usopp, Robin, and their group of dwarves reach the room where Trebol and Sugar are located. The dwarves state that Sugar loves eating grapes. So their plan is to put a solid ball of the world's hottest spice, Tatababasco, which they've made to look like a grape, into her basket of grapes. The seasoning is so spicy that when it was tested 50 times on the dwarves all of them fainted and 18 of them were on the verge of dying. Usopp tells Leo to go ahead and execute the plan and he will stay back and cover him although in his mind he intends to run away if the plan fails. Leo steps up to place the ball of Tatababasco into the basket as the other dwarves cheer him on. He says that when Sugar cries out, it will be the sign that all the toys will become human again and all their forgotten memories will return and the evil deeds of Doflamingo be brought to light and his true colors will be revealed to everyone! He shouts that he is going to save his friends and return the Kingdom back to King Riku.

Trebol notices a fly, and using his devil fruit powers, he shoots the fly with enough force to knock it through the wall of the executive tower. This scares all the dwarves, but Leo boasts that even if he can hit a fly, he will not be able to hit him, and runs towards the tower. As the other dwarves and Usopp cheer Leo on, Robin stops him.
Inside the SMILE Factory, an overseer is forcing the dwarves to work in the SMILE fields. He remarks that even though five hundred dwarves were kidnapped, their comrades still did not notice anything due to their naivete; and since he is not going to get any more slaves, he will work the current ones to his heart's content. The man complains that they are too slow and whips them. As he inspects the fruits they have collected in a wagon, he notices that they have not even become SMILEs yet. He kicks the wagon, knocking the fruits to the ground, and berates the dwarves. Although the dwarves are good with growing fruit, they complain that SMILE is an unusual fruit, but he is unconvinced and says they are just making excuses. One of the dwarves begs him to let his companion rest, and that the food they were given was rotten. The overseer lies and tells them that the only medicine that can heal their princess is SMILE, and that only one out of every ten SMILES can be used. They ask if they can be allowed to see the princess, but the man pretends to cry, saying that the "rare disease" might be infectious. The dwarves believe him, and, moved by his affection, and say that they will try their best to grow SMILEs.
Outside the executive tower, Leo is angry at Robin for stopping him, but she explains that if he were to just run in, he would have died. The fly that Trebol shot was hit clean between the eyes, meaning he could easily have attacked Leo. It is still too dangerous to target Sugar while she is being guarded by him.
Bian creates a distraction at the port with some pink hornets, and Robin reports the disturbance to Trebol, saying that some pirates are demanding to speak with an executive about their payment. Hearing this, Trebol wonders that they do not fear Joker. He notices that Robin is not the usual person reporting, but she simply lies, saying that the other person has gone to eat. She also says that some people have been wounded. Trebol leaves to take care of the situation, but posts extra guards with orders to notify him if anything happens.
As they reach the executive tower, the dwarves ask Usopp why he will not fight Sugar. He bluffs that if he were to fight, the battle would be over instantly. He also says that this will help them gain confidence, but if anything happens he will be there to help them defeat Sugar.
Entering the tower, the dwarves quickly surround Sugar. They tell her that they will take back their companions enslaved in the factory, and that they will make her pay. She replies that she does not know what they are talking about, and the dwarves believe her without wondering about it. Usopp tells them she was fooling them, and Sugar wonders who told them, as they are too naive to realize it by themselves. She drops her basket of grapes, saying that she didn't expect them to do anything for at least a year, and that somebody must have encouraged this, The dwarves charge at her, with the aim of holding her down and opening her mouth to feed her the Tatababasco grape. Sugar is upset somewhat that the dwarves seem to think she's weak, just because she's a young girl. Some of the dwarves charge in, but she turns them into toy bears. She makes a contract with them, forcing them to obey her orders. Usopp, watching this, is shocked, but the rest of the dwarves lose all memory of the dwarves who were turned into toys, and it appears to them that a group of toys suddenly appeared before them. Sugar gives the toys orders to slaughter everyone in the tower. The toy dwarves do not want to fight their companions but cannot disobey the orders given by Sugar due to their contract. The dwarves charge at the toys, who try to tell them that they are their allies but are unable to.
Sugar calls Trebol on a Den Den Mushi, telling him return immediately, and that it is a trap. As he turns back, Robin points out that the pirates that were creating trouble are right before them. Trebol leaps at them, preparing to stop the fight, but they tell him that the disruption was due to hornets in the cargo, and they were holding up their end of the bargain. He turns around to see Robin running, and realizes that he has been tricked. He leaps again, catching her in his slime, but it is a decoy clone. He recognizes her face before the clone vanishes, and realizes that the Straw Hat Pirates are after Sugar. He grabs a ship with his ability, and slams it into the executive tower.

The dwarves, Usopp, and Sugar are all shocked as a giant ship crashes into the room. Even the toy workers stop to look at the incident in astonishment. Trebol's subordinates cry out that he has lost it, and comment on how the tower is now in ruins.
Robin finds Usopp, who is apparently pretending to be knocked out, and wakes him up. He says that a "duck came flying through the roof," and Robin tells him to keep quiet, and that Leo's group has been captured.
Sure enough, the dwarves are being interrogated by Trebol and Sugar (who angrily kicks him for throwing the ship). They claim that they will never reveal their partners' names, though Trebol lies that Usopp is his dear friend, prompting Leo to give away the name. As he mocks that Usopp isn't his friend, Leo screams in horror that he fell for another trick. A similar situation follows with Sugar asking about Thunder Soldier.
Trebol notes that the dwarves have quite a plan in action, to which they respond that it doesn't matter since the Doflamingo Pirates are already done for. The officer simply drops some of his goo onto them, which is flammable; it explodes.
Usopp finds Leo seriously injured, and advises that he and the dwarves get out of the harbor. Leo laments that he can't beat Trebol, but says that Operation SOP must be completed, because if so then Thunder Soldier can crush Doflamingo. He says that the "captain is waiting for them".
The scene changes to the fight between Lao G and Thunder Soldier, with the former almost finished defeating the latter. Knocked down, Thunder Soldier recalls the events that morning.
The prisoner gladiators and the dwarves cheer as the newspaper claims Doflamingo has quit the Shichibukai, but Thunder Soldier only sadly says that it is not true.
Then he tries to console Rebecca, who is upset about the entire thing and cries about being "cast down from the heavens to hell". She says that everyone's spirits are breaking, even remembering someone saying that the only thing to look forward to is execution, and angrily cries that achieving a thousand wins in the colosseum to be freed is not hope but rather a wall of despair. She even remarks that the statue of Kyros is nothing but a lie made by the prisoners as a preservation of hope, and if she has to dream the impossible, she would rather put all her hopes into the competition (for the Mera Mera no Mi).
Thunder Soldier scolds her that she is only 16, and that she is too young and weak to take on the competition. Rebecca tears up and says that he is not her real father, that he is the one who is going to get beaten up, and that he is nothing but a toy soldier. He simply agrees, and walks away; Rebecca quickly apologizes and pleads him not to start the operation.
Back in the present, Rebecca, who has not yet gone to the offensive side, seemingly angrily attacks Diamante. He notices that the sword is blunt; he mocks that the battle is one of life and death, and simply smashes her with a club he made with a folded sheet of iron.
The crowd cheers the Hero of the Colosseum, while Sabo (Lucy) orders "Muscle Melon" to protect Rebecca, to which he barks that his name is "Bartolomeo".
Meanwhile, Diamante laughs and sarcastically asks if he knew how her mother, Scarlett, died. He says that he even got a little emotional seeing Thunder Soldier cry so hard. Rebecca remembers her mother saying that she will be back with some food, but came back dead and carried by the toy soldier.
Back at the palace, Lao G gets distracted by the tremors Pica is causing, and soon ambushed by Kabu's group. The dwarves tell Thunder Soldier to go ahead, though he worries about their safety and notes that they will all die. Kabu reassures the captain by saying that Leo is almost done with their part, and that all he needs to do is shoot Doflamingo.
Underground, Usopp asks Leo why they are so reliant on the toy. Leo explains that while the other toys were all assigned contracts to obey Doflamingo, Thunder Soldier was the only exception. And because he was left with a free will, he is the only one capable of fighting against Doflamingo. In fact, if it weren't for him the dwarves would have all become slaves as well, due to their naivety. He ends with a speech saying that, though no one remembers anymore, Thunder Soldier was Kyros; the strongest gladiator in the colosseum.

At the first floor of the basement's royal palace, Luffy and Viola escaped while Zoro stayed behind to fight Pica and are rushing as well as looking for an exit to the higher floor while the stonewalls controlled by Pica are trying to confine them by creating dead ends. Viola asks Luffy if Zoro is alright after having engaged in combat with Pica, and Luffy says to not worry about him, while breaking a stone wall with a kick. Meanwhile, Zoro is still fighting with Pica, since his slashes are cutting his manipulated stonewalls but don't seem to affect him.
At the royal palace's first floor, after fighting through several of Doflamingo's men, Rampo, Kabu, and Thunder Soldier were intercepted by Gladius. The two dwarves attempted to attack him in order for the Thunder Soldier to escape, but the officer effortlessly caught them. Gladius then attacked them with his Devil Fruit powers, knocking them out with the explosions by rupture of his arms. He then went after Thunder Soldier, stating he can't outrun him as a toy. He tackled the toy soldier from behind and, while explaining his ability, inflated the soldier's head. Right before it exploded, Luffy knocked Gladius away with a Jet Stamp, saving Thunder Soldier from certain demise. Luffy was about to continue the fight with the officer, but Viola pulled him away, stating that Gladius was too dangerous. Upon seeing Viola, Gladius ranted about her betrayal and exploded his helmet, hurting her with the helmet's shards, managing to wound Viola which forced Luffy to carry her. Seeing no stairs to advance further up, Viola, Luffy, and Thunder Soldier jumped out a window and Luffy used his leg to stretch to the second floor conveniently outside the Room of Suits. As they overheard Doflamingo trying to get Law to tell him what the Straw Hats' plan was, Luffy asked if he can attack Doflamingo, only to be denied and told to wait by Viola, while Thunder Soldier places his faith in Usopp to go on with the plan.
After losing sight of them, Gladius ran into Kin'emon, disguised as the Doflamingo with Wicca hiding in his pocket. Fooled by the disguise, Gladius informed him that Kanjuro had disappeared from the scrap house.
At the toy house, Franky decided to remain at the toy house to battle the Marines, because going to the underground world with them after him would jeopardize Thunder Soldier's plans. He also placed his faith in Usopp.
At the underground trade port, Robin used her Devil Fruit powers in an attempt to knock out Sugar with the spice the dwarves were going to use. Unfortunately, she let her guard down for a moment and Sugar touched one of her arms, transforming her into a toy. While wandering in the trade port, Robin wondered where Usopp went and put her hopes in him as well.
With all the dwarves incapacitated, Leo also put his faith in Usopp. However, Usopp decided to run from the scene and angrily asked himself why Franky wasn't coming.

As Usopp runs off in fear, Trebol tells the toys to get back to work, but they are shaken by the dwarves' rebellion. The barely conscious dwarves then call on Usopp, still hoping that he will save them. Usopp hears their call and freezes up as Trebol and Sugar question Leo about this "Usoland". Leo tells the two that Usopp is a legendary hero that gave his word to save all the dwarves and toys, and will do so. Trebol laughs at the dwarves' naivety, telling them that "Usoland" abandoned them. The dwarves are shocked, but Leo refuses to believe that Usopp would abandon them, trusting in their "hero's" word to the end. Trebol then steps on Leo, angering the dwarves even more. Suddenly, Usopp appears, telling the dwarves to quit the charade about him.
As the toy Robin and the dwarves see Usopp, the pirate confesses the truth: he is not Usoland, the heroic descendant of Mont Blanc Noland, but Usopp, one of the Straw Hat Pirates. The dwarves struggle to believe this revelation and begin to weep, but then Usopp tells Trebol that he is still gonna save the dwarves. Before, he had realized that he wouldn't have been able to rest knowing that the dwarves had always been counting on him, and that it would be good to die if it was a noble death. He then declares that he is Usopp, the sniper of the Straw Hat Pirates and that they should put their faith in him, as he has decided to become the legendary hero of the Tontatta. With the rest of the toys wondering if he has come to save them, he launches a new pop green at Trebol; Hissatsu Midori Boshi: Platanus Shuriken, telling Trebol that it is time to sink or swim as the attack cuts him in half.
Meanwhile, Thunder Soldier flashes back to his life before he was turned into a toy. At the age of 15, Kyros was arrested for the murder of two people. King Riku showed him mercy and allowed him his freedom after fighting 100 battles in the colosseum, to which Kyros agrees to. However, even after being acquitted Kyros continues to fight in the arena. After 1000 victories, Riku asked why Kyros wanted to battle so much. Ironically, Kyros sadly replies that all people will remember him as is a murderer.

Kyros stays for 9 years in the arena, winning battle after battle without any injury. King Riku under the pretense of Ricky, competes against Kyros and his 3,000 wins and loses after giving him a single injury on the head. Kyros knew from the beginning that it was the king all along and wondered why he did it. The King told Kyros that even though Kyros taught him how to fight with a sword, he doesn't want him to spend his entire life fighting in the colosseum and convinced him to join the army as the captain of the guard. However, Scarlett (the princess of Dressrosa) is distrustful of him since his past as a murderer is well known to her and told him that he will never come near nor touch her or her sister, even though she is under his protection. This changes when pirates kidnap her and Kyros saves her. Both fall in love with each other and end up marrying.
Due to Kyros' past as a murderer, Scarlett convinces her father to fake her death so she can live happily with Kyros. She eventually bears him a child who she named Rebecca. The family spend their days living in the flower field where Riku comes to visit them regularly. Kyros himself couldn't bear to touch his daughter since he believes she is too pure to be touched by a murderer and wear gloves routinely when he does play with her. One day, Kyros notices the palace burning and investigates finding Riku to be captured by the Doflamingo pirates. They chain him with seastone cuffs and Donquixote Doflamingo offers him a chance to join their army. Kyros, seeing the man who gave him a new life in terrible pain refuses Doflamingo's offer, cuts off his own leg that was chained and is about to escape with King Riku when Sugar turns him into a toy. He still manages to escape and helps the king go into hiding, however Riku doesn't remember who Kyros was. With the king escaped safely, Kyros goes towards the Red Flower Bed where Scarlett and Rebecca are supposed to wait for him.
Some days after the invasion of the Donquixote Pirates, Scarlett went to a market in order to buy some food for her daughter, but she was shot by an assailant. Kyros was horrified to see her here and rushes to her while brutally striking any soldier getting close to her. He then realizes that she forgot everything, even their promise to safely hide where he told them. Before her life was slipped away, she asks him to save Rebecca which he readily does.
At the present, Kyros (Toy Soldier) is jolted back to the present by Viola. They are about to be surrounded by Doflamingo's men cursing Kin'emon as he was dressed like the 'young lord' (Doflamingo). Toy Soldier considers assassinating Doflamingo right away since they would lose this opportunity if they don't act quickly.
In Corrida Colosseum, Sabo and Burgess' fight continues and Burgess attacks are threatening to break the colosseum. Many of the soldier realize that another powerful attack like before would break the foundations and bring the entire colosseum down. Meanwhile Bartolomeo, as instructed by Sabo, looks to protect Rebecca, but Diamante confirms to Rebecca that he was the one who shot her mother, traumatizing her into defenselessness.
Franky lies badly defeated by the combined assault of the marines soldiers and the Doflamingo family. He hoped that Usopp will succeed in delivering the crippling blow to Doflamingo's entire operation. The dwarves of Tontatta cheer Usopp as 'Usoland' fights. Many of the slave toys overheard that Usoland will save them and silently cheered that he saves them from their terrible fate.
Sugar gets shocked unconscious by Usopp's reaction to the Tatababasco.However, Usopp was already defeated by Trebol's sticky web and the dwarves sank into despair. Trebol gets a call from Doflamingo who requested Sugar to return to him immediately. Before she would, she decided to feed the apparently poisonous ball to Usopp as a final insult for trying to kill her. But swallowing the Tatababasco ball causes Usopp to suddenly regain consciousness, his face in an unimaginable expression of pain and agony with his tongue caught in expelling flames along with a horrifying scream. Caught off guard, this unexpected display scared Sugar so much that it caused her to lose consciousness from fear, causing Usopp to be the battle's victor and leaving the dwarves speechless at this unexpected twist.

Usopp and Sugar scream as the latter passes out, which awes the dwarves and greatly shocks Trebol. Suddenly, all the toys are transformed back into their original bodies, resulting in celebrations in toy-only areas from the shipyard to the basement underneath the Colosseum. Trebol quickly tells Doflamingo via Den Den Mushi about what has happened, telling him that the effects of the Hobi Hobi no Mi were nullified, with Doflamingo showing massive concern and asking him if he was joking. The people in the streets panic due to the unexpected transformations happening all at once. Some citizens embrace their lost family members, but others run in fear from the wild animals and pirates who had just changed back from becoming toys, and some of the other toys that were turned back were revealed to be former Dressrosa soldiers, government officials, marines, beasts and leaders of other nations. Upon hearing reports of the panic, Fujitora and Bastille prepare to restore order while the wounded Franky gives a weak laugh as Senor Pink who is accompanied by Dellinger and Machvise chastises Sugar for being defeated so easily and wasting 10 years of planning, but takes back his statement by hoping she's not severely injured.
Meanwhile, back in the castle, Pica vanishes, leaving Zoro lost and confused as to how he suddenly disappeared. Back at the Executive Tower, Robin, who is now a human again, comes to Usopp's aid. The dwarves celebrate Usopp making Operation SOP a success, weeping in gratitude and promising to build a bronze statue of him, proclaiming him a hero. The barely conscious Usopp boldly proclaims that everything went "according to plan" and is confident that his crew can deal with the rest, knowing that the real fight has only just begun. Doflamingo, meanwhile, is severely frustrated and knee-deep in worry as he receives numerous calls via Den Den Mushi from all corners of Dressrosa regarding the recent turn of events resulting from the toys' transformations back into humans, the people on the streets are cursing Doflamingo, seemingly ready to revolt.
Suddenly, Thunder Soldier, having turned back into Kyros vanishes from Luffy and Viola's side and rushes toward the palace suits room, with Luffy questioning who he is to Viola who suddenly bursts into tears after finally remembering who he is due to the Hobi Hobi no Mi curse being lifted. She answers him by explaining the power of the Hobi Hobi no Mi and how everyone's memories were regained after Sugar was defeated and proclaims him to be the ex-commander of Riku's army and champion of the Colosseum, Kyros. Luffy is shocked at this revelation that he is the person representing the statue he saw at the Colosseum and is even more shocked to discover he is Rebecca's father, Viola looks back at why Thunder Soldier spent 10 years at Rebecca's side, protecting her and bursts into tears again.
Meanwhile, back in the suits room, King Riku also regains his memories and starts to cry, finally remembering his former friend and army commander while it is announced that there is chaos in the Colosseum as the toys there have also changed back into their original forms, creating mass panic. Doflamingo then turns as one of his guards demands to know who the figure who just entered the room was. King Riku comments that he recognized the individual while Law looks on in shock and Riku asks if he is Kyros, who responds with a firm yes and charges to attack Doflamingo while apologizing to Riku for making him wait so long. Doflamingo recognizes Kyros but is taken completely by surprise and is seemingly decapitated with one swift strike, shocking Buffalo and Baby 5, who are present.
Luffy and Viola then enter the throne room, with Luffy exclaiming that Doflamingo was dead and that they needed to save Law. Kyros then proclaims that he came to get back the "real Dressrosa".
Back at the Corrida Colosseum, the audience begin panicking and start running toward the exit due to there having beasts among the audience who had just changed back from toys, with Diamante cursing Trebol for not protecting Sugar properly. Bartolomeo then berates Rebecca for crying too much and says he cannot babysit her anymore. Rebecca is in tears, as she explains to him that she just remembered she had a father, with Bartolomeo confused at her statement. Sabo then sits up and explains that it was a trick created by the country, commenting that everything had a "core", including the ring they are standing on. He demonstrated these words by using a new technique, Ryusoken: Ryu no Ibuki (Dragon's Breath) to completely destroy the Colosseum floor while explaining he had other things to win, much to everyone's shock.
Meanwhile, somewhere else on Dressrosa, Revolutionary member Koala is speaking to Hack via Den Den Mushi and announced that Sabo was heading to the basement of the Colosseum.

Sabo's attack destroys the stage, causing a shockwave and panic amongst the audience. Rebecca is seen clinging onto Bartolomeo as Diamante accidentally mentions that they never planned to give the Mera Mera no Mi away. Sabo opens the chest with the devil fruit, while a shocked Gatz looks on, and points out that he is the last one standing. Gatz announces to the fleeing crowd that Lucy is the winner of the Corrida Colosseum despite the chaos that is unfolding. After taking a bite of the Mera Mera no Mi, Sabo comments on how disgusting it tastes. He rescues Rebecca, but leaves Bartolomeo behind, since he can defend himself, as he removes beard and helmet. While not still used to his new devil fruit power, and startled by the flames he has just produced, Sabo destroys the remains of the stage with a powerful strike. The attack is so powerful that it destroys the ground between the underground port and the Colosseum. Koala leaps into the hole after him.
In the underground port, Trebol is angered and attacks Nico Robin and the dwarves as they attempt to get Usopp out of danger. The executive tries to attack Robin with his devil fruit ability, but she summons several large hands to lift up a large chunk of a rock to block him. Right after, Hajrudin appears from out of nowhere. The giant lifted Usopp up, complimenting his brave actions that removed the curses of the Hobi Hobi no Mi. He then showed the badly injured Usopp to the freed warriors of the Colosseum. The destroyed ceiling lets rays of light beam down upon Usopp, and the warriors take this as a sign. Usopp tries to convince the giant to put him down, but it was misheard by the others as "I will lead you" and they cheer him, asking what they should do. Usopp tells them to destroy the factory behind him and to save the dwarves.
Having fallen down from the colosseum, Jesus Burgess is annoyed that Sabo ate the fruit meant for his crew, and Diamante worries over the loss of the fruit. While these two are grumbling, they are confronted by the freed toys from the basement, full of hatred for the Donquixote Pirates.
Some distance away, but still in the port, Bartolomeo is upset that Sabo did not save him, despite being easily able to save himself. Sabo, having changed out of his disguise, introduces himself, Koala and Hack as members of the Revolutionary Army. He also revealed Lucy's identity of Luffy to Rebecca, and tells her that the pirate is his younger brother. Sabo then explains that Dressrosa is promoting wars all over the world, and came to Dressrosa to stop it.
In the palace, Kyros defeats Doflamingo's soldiers with ease, including Buffalo. Luffy and Viola rush over to save Law, but Law warns him that their alliance is over and that they are now enemies, and if Luffy releases him, he may kill Luffy. Gladius rushes in, but sees that Doflamingo has been decapitated, and is startled. Kyros removes Riku's chains, as Luffy tries to unchain Law despite his warnings. A sudden shockwave knocks them to the floor as Pica emerges beside Doflamingo, holding the Shichibukai's head in his hand. Doflamingo, still alive, warns that the situation is now serious, and that he will need to implement a plan called the 'Birdcage', which greatly shocks Law.

The heads of the factory observe as the ex-toys try to invade the SMILE Factory, and are confident that they won't succeed in destroying Doflamingo's most prized building because it is made of Seastone and is guarded by Diamante and Trebol, who have already beaten many ex-toys.
In the trading port, Sabo, Koala, and Hack meet with Robin, who was revealed to be acquainted with all three of them. Robin introduces them to Usopp, whose beaten-up face creeps them out. Meanwhile, Kin'emon hurriedly exits the palace, using his Doflamingo disguise to get through the crowd. And on the Royal Plateau, in front of the Rampart Tower, Zoro continues searching fruitlessly for Pica.
Inside the royal palace, Kyros is enraged at the decapitated Doflamingo being alive, and rushes at him to finish the job. However, another Doflamingo suddenly appears behind him, ready to return the favor and properly demonstrate how to decapitate someone. Doflamingo then unleashes a giant kick which severs the palace tower from the rest of the building, but Luffy manages to pull Kyros out of harm's way. Both the real and the decapitated Doflamingo rise to attack Luffy, which shocks Baby 5, but Luffy dodges their strike. Forgiving Kyros for letting his guard down, Luffy attacks Doflamingo with the Gomu Gomu no Jet Gatling. However, Doflamingo is unharmed due to covering his body in Busoshoku Haki, and the decapitated Doflamingo cuts Luffy with his string powers. Finally, Doflamingo finishes the fight by punching Luffy in the face with a Haki-embued fist.
The shocked Kyros and Viola wonder who the decapitated Doflamingo really is, and Viola thinks that it is some kind of marionette. Doflamingo then asks King Riku if he remembers how he was forced to kill his own subjects 10 years ago; which confuses and enrages the former king, questioning his motives for bringing that incident up. Doflamingo replies to Riku's outraged expression by saying what was going to happen now would make that event seem pleasant in comparison. Riku is unwilling to let Doflamingo do something like that, but is unable to do anything before Doflamingo orders Pica to remove his opposition from the palace. Pica gladly complies and throws everyone out with a giant stone hand, and they fall to the ground dozens of feet below. While falling, Riku begs Doflamingo not to harm Dressrosa any further as he, Viola, Kyros, and Law land on Luffy's Balloon. The five of them watch from the Tower Gardens, unable to get back to the palace, as the decapitated Doflamingo marionette splits into dozens of strings, beginning Bird Cage.
Law tells Luffy, Viola, and Kyros that Doflamingo's bird cage will trap all the people on Dressrosa, slaughtering them before they can get the word out on Doflamingo's actions. Every citizen in Dressrosa panics as the strings envelop the island, and one pirate's attempt to escape reveals that trying to break through will end up cutting the escapee. With the strings enveloping the entire country, it appears as if everyone is in a giant cage, with no exit. The Marines attempt to contact headquarters and quickly realize that the cage is blocking all transmissions, and some of them suddenly start to attack Dressrosa citizens, having lost control of their actions due to Doflamingo controlling them with Parasite. The chaos then only gets worse as Pica causes the Royal Palace, the SMILE Factory, and Flower Hill to lift off the ground. Doflamingo then broadcasts his voice across Dressrosa, telling the citizens that he should have ruled like a tyrant all those ten years. He then invites any enemies of his to either try and kill him, or kill his targets in order to survive.

Doflamingo continues his broadcast, informing the Dressrosa citizens that escape from his Birdcage, as well as communication to the outside world, is impossible. He asks them if they will all be killed because of him using his powers to make random citizens kill others, or if they will manage to end his game.
As Issho puts down the controlled Marines, the ex-toys at the underground port are shocked that the SMILE Factory has risen into the air. However, they are confident that this gives them a chance for escape thanks to their "god", Usopp. Meanwhile in the port, Kin'emon, Bartolomeo, and Rebecca meet up with Robin, Usopp, Sabo, Koala, Hack, and the Dwarves. Kin'emon tells about how the Dressrosa citizens were trying to kill him as they thought he was Doflamingo since he was wearing his Doflamingo disguise. Bartolomeo, while sucking up to Robin, notices that Usopp has a long nose, much like Sogeking, his alias. Robin tells him that they are one and the same, causing Bartolomeo to scream in awe, greatly annoying Sabo and Hack. Kin'emon checks on the dwarves, commending them on their battle skill while they check on Kabu and Rampo, who got back from the palace incapacitated.
The carnage in the streets of Dressrosa continues, with Doflamingo reflecting that this was a lot like the incident he caused ten years ago. The controlled citizens and their victims likewise draw similarities to the incident, finally understanding that King Riku and his Army were being controlled that night. As King Riku continues to plead that Doflamingo stop the carnage, Doflamingo offers an ultimatum to the former toys and people screaming for his head: make the wrong choice and come for his head in a never-ending game, or "bring justice" to the 12 people on the island that represent the greatest threat to the Donquixote Family. Each target is worth a certain number of "Stars", and Doflamingo will pay a bounty of 100 million per star. The bounties are assigned as follows:
1-Star: Rebecca, Nico Robin, Kin'emon, Viola, Franky
2-Stars: Roronoa Zoro, Kyros
3-Stars: Sabo, Monkey D. Luffy, Trafalgar Law, Riku Doldo III
The announcement of the bounties causes a flurry of mixed reactions of shock, disbelief, and excitement; both that some of the targets are even still alive after all this time (King Riku and Kyros), and others that the people are even present on Dressrosa (such as Sabo). Back at the Trade Port, just as Usopp begins to rejoice in being left out, Doflamingo offers a final, special 5-star bounty just for "God" Usopp for his role in the preceding events. This immediately causes the former toys that were just worshipping him to now turn against him for the bounty, much to Usopp's dismay. They also quickly turn their attention to Robin, Sabo, Rebecca, and Kin'emon for their bounties, who surmise that they must escape quickly. However while everyone else moves to make it above ground, Kin'emon decides to jump further down to the Scrap Heap under the pretense that Kanjuro may be there.
Doflamingo further asserts that the clock is ticking, as people are being killed by the second due to his manipulation. We are brought back to the streets of Dressrosa, where the citizens that have come to understand King Riku's actions ten years ago now find themselves torn over what to do. Also, Senor Pink, Machvise, and Dellinger notice that Franky has escaped their sight somehow. Back at the Trade Port, Bartolomeo urges Robin's group to press on to above ground as he creates a large barrier to prevent the former toys from pursuing them. Zoro calls Robin via Den Den Mushi, and it is revealed that he has met up with Luffy and the others that were expelled from the palace by Pica. Luffy takes over the conversation with Robin, and they bring each other up to date on current events, they notice that Kyros has gone missing.
Luffy referring to Kyros as "Soldier-San", as well as Rebecca's own memories of the toy soldier, leads her to the revelation that the soldier, the statue at the Corrida Colosseum, and Kyros, are her father. As she begins to break down, Luffy encourages her to remain strong. He apologizes that she couldn't eat the Mera Mera no Mi, but in place of that promises to defeat Doflamingo and restore order to the country. This disturbs Law, as he reminds Luffy that the plan was not to kill Doflamingo so that he would be left holding the cards of his failure to Kaidou. Killing him would thus instead direct the Emperor's aggression toward their alliance. Luffy brushes this off, firmly believing that the current state of affairs will not improve unless he takes action. A brief scene of the Marines is shown, with Admiral Fujitora and Vice Admiral Bastille reminding their forces that their target is the Law-Straw Hat Alliance, and not Doflamingo. With his conviction to help his new friends, Luffy grabs Law and Zoro and heads straight for Doflamingo's palace.

The former toys emerge from underneath the Colosseum in a horde. The Marines trying to calm the panic see them, and conclude that the recent change in landscape must have connected the Trade Harbor to the Colosseum. Vice Admiral Maynard has returned to his former form, and Vice Admiral Bastille berates him for his acting without orders. Maynard replies that thanks to his infiltration, he has learned the depth of Doflamingo's heinous crimes. In the underground trade port, Koala investigates a ship in the harbor. She discovers that the ship is a Doerena Kingdom trading vessel, being passed off as a pirate ship, and takes a picture.
As the Marines continue to restrain those being controlled, Maynard brings his case to Admiral Fujitora, adamant that Donquixote Doflamingo be arrested for what he has done. Issho responds that it is not the World Government's role to play God in the wake of the anger-filled screams of the citizens, and instructs the Vice Admiral to continue following his orders.
At the newly located Royal Palace, most of the Donquixote Family discuss their current strategy. Already assured that they won't get into the SMILE Factory due to its Seastone structure, they also destroy the factory keys to remove any glimmer of hope. Lao G makes a sharp comment on Trebol's inability to keep Sugar safe, prompting both Trebol and Diamante to attempt to justify their failures to Doflamingo. Lao G is further annoyed by their excuses but Doflamingo comments that what is done is done, and that there is nothing that can be done now, much to their relief. Diamante complains that the Marines will become an annoyance, and asks Doflamingo what he plans to do about the Admiral. Doflamingo assures him that the Admiral won't cause him problems for the time being, due to their earlier conversations, but also notes that nothing good will come of letting him live.
As he begins to expand on how best to deal with the pirates and Marines, Pica speaks up, stating that he alone should be enough. Pica's high-pitched voice catches a subordinate off guard, and he struggles to hold in a laugh as another tells him hurriedly that laughing will get him killed. Doflamingo says that there's no need to be hasty, as he is confident that his game will cause the citizens to choose the Donquixote Family over the Riku family. As Pica begins to reply, the subordinate can no longer control himself and lets out a laugh. This immediately catches the attention of Doflamingo and the senior executives, much to the soldier's dismay. As Pica is about to entomb the subordinate in stone for his laughter, Baby 5 instead shoots him to prevent Pica's wrath from going out of control, knocking the subordinate off the plateau. Doflamingo explains that he lost his mother at 8 years old, and killed his father at age 10, and that because the executives have shared joy and sorrow with him, he will not tolerate anyone laughing at his family.
In the streets of Dressrosa, Senor Pink, Machvise, and Dellinger reflect on how the Marines do not seem to be a problem because of Doflamingo's status, and wondering how Franky had enough strength to elude them. Franky is seen running towards the new SMILE Factory location. It is revealed that he regained his strength from leftover cola he had in reserve for destroying the factory, which he plans to destroy with his Radical Beam. Monkey D. Luffy, Trafalgar Law and Roronoa Zoro land at the Donquixote pirates' position, surrounded by marines and citizens intent on taking their head. Law, still handcuffed, expresses his annoyance at Luffy's choice of landing, but Zoro explains that the situation wouldn't be good for them regardless of where they landed, because the whole country wants their head. As they attempt to run, Senor Pink swims through the ground and grabs Luffy's leg. Machvise launches himself at Luffy and Law, but Luffy stretches his legs to push them out of the way. Dellinger aims a kick at Luffy, but Zoro kicks him from behind, causing the attack to hit Machvise instead. The citizens and marines open fire on the fugitives. Zoro says that he's reluctant to use his swords because there are innocents among them, which prompts Luffy to instead try Haki. Before he can use it, Issho appears and tells the citizens to stop shooting, as it is useless against them. Zoro and Luffy express their shock at his presence, and prepare for confrontation.
In the colosseum, Robin's group continues to evade the former toys chasing their bounties, with Bartolomeo and Hack backing them up. Robin determines that the landscape shift has placed the colosseum next to the Royal Plateau, so they head there to meet up with the others. As they escape, Hack notices that Sabo has gone off on his own, just like Koala. The island begins to shift again, with King Riku and Viola wondering what they will do this time. The commotion of the island catches everyone's attention, until eventually Pica himself emerges from the landscape to tower above the island. As he says that he will deal with those that stand against his family, Luffy starts laughing at the high pitch of his voice, infuriating Pica.

The citizens of Dressrosa shout at Luffy to stop laughing about Pica, as the latter has a complex about his high-pitched voice. An enraged Pica then aims a fist at Luffy, and the citizens run away in fear. Issho notices that something bad is happening, though is oblivious to what exactly. As Luffy, Zoro, and Law run from Pica, the latter two tell the former to stop laughing at Pica, though they are trying hard to keep from laughing themselves. Pica's fist then lands on the ground, destroying many buildings and launching the pirates into the air.
Luffy, Zoro, and Law land in front of the Corrida Colosseum, and as Zoro and Law reflect on how strong Pica is, Cavendish suddenly appears. As Zoro prepares to draw his sword, Cavendish recognizes Law and attacks him due to him being one of the Eleven Supernovas, which stole his fame. Luffy stops Cavendish, saying that Law is his friend, which Law loudly denies. Luffy asks Cavendish if he still hates him, to which Cavendish replies no due to Usopp rescuing him from being a toy. Cavendish then hands Law his hat, which he found in front of the colosseum, and offers to put it on for him, which Law quickly declines. Cavendish then tells Luffy that as repayment for rescuing him, he'll kill Doflamingo so the Straw Hat Pirates can hide. Luffy declines the offer, saying he had to defeat Doflamingo to repay Rebecca for giving him lunch, leading Law and Cavendish to question his motives. Cavendish believes Luffy wants to defeat Doflamingo to become more popular, and gain the press' attention.
Suddenly, Chinjao, Sai, and Boo appear, their grudge against Luffy gone and now are ready to defeat Doflamingo to repay Usopp, which annoys Luffy due to him wanting to defeat Doflamingo. Hajrudin then appears, also getting rid of his grudge and saying he'll defeat Doflamingo. He is soon followed by Elizabello II, Dagama, Abdullah, Jeet, Suleiman, Orlumbus, Ideo, and Blue Gilly, who all want the same thing: Doflamingo's head, but for different reasons. As Zoro asks all of them to back them up, Luffy and the former combatants start arguing on who gets to defeat Doflamingo. However, they notice a crowd of former colosseum combatant toys heading toward them, ready to take Luffy, Zoro, and Law's bounties, and, forgetting their argument, easily defeat the ex-toys. Just then, Luffy sees Ucy in the crowd, and the bull quickly recognizes his friend.
The citizens of Dressrosa are all on the search for Luffy, Zoro, and Law, expecting all of them to be dead. Suddenly, they see the shadow of a bull heading toward them, and thinking it is only the Straw Hats, prepare to fire their guns. However, they see the Straw Hats backed up by the Corrida Colosseum's most dangerous combatants, and are very shocked. Pica then prepares to crush the combatants, but Chinjao uses his drill head and Elizabello II uses a lighter version of King Punch to shatter Pica's stone arm, shocking the citizens. Meanwhile, Luffy tries to get the other combatants off his trail to find Doflamingo.


The citizens of Dressrosa are shocked to see Pica's arm crumble apart after Chinjao's and Elizabello II's attack, and Luffy, in a panic, rides Ucy away from the falling rubble. The soldiers on the streets attempt to stop the Colosseum fighters, but are thwarted by Ideo, who uses Destruction Cannon to blow the shocked soldiers away. Orlumbus and Cavendish join in, respectively using the moves Admiral's Hug and Swan Lake. The soldiers are powerless to stop them, but Pica gears up for another assault on the fighters. Chinjao prepares to hold the Donquixote executive off, but Zoro sees that Pica's severed arm has grown back, and, knowing that continuing fighting like this would be useless, shouts at everybody to run.
The fighters run away from Pica's second attack, which destroys more of Dressrosa, and the fighters are at a loss on how to get through Pica to Doflamingo's castle. Suddenly, Cavendish notices that Luffy isn't with them, and the fighters are incredibly shocked to see the Straw Hat riding Ucy up Pica's arm. Luffy heads up excitedly, and Abdullah and Jeet, having also hitched a ride on Ucy, also cheer, which causes Luffy to realize they are there and to yell at them to get off. Pica then notices Luffy, and in silent rage grows his arm back, preparing to attack the pirate. Luffy attacks him first, however, hitting Pica in the face with Gomu Gomu no Grizzly Magnum. The attack shatters Pica's face and shocks the fighters and citizens down below.
Zoro, having ridden on Ucy with Luffy, points out that Pica's shattered arm and head were just pure stone, and that Pica's real body was located where his fake head was. Zoro remarks that Pica is finally showing some human characteristics, when the Donquixote executive pulls out a giant sword, scaring Abdullah and Jeet. They beg Ucy to turn around or stop, but the bull cannot do either of those things as Pica swings at it. However, Luffy manages to get underneath Ucy and propel it upward, out of the sword's path. Ucy lands behind Pica, but the executive officer quickly turns around, preparing to strike again. Thankfully, Zoro manages to counter his blow with one sword, which causes a shocked Abdullah and Jeet to call him and Luffy "comrades of god". Pica tells Zoro to get out of the way so he can deal with Luffy, but Zoro says that Luffy has no business with a chunk of stone like him and mocks his high-pitched voice, enraging Pica further.
The fighters below notice that Pica's stone body has frozen, and take advantage of this to head for Doflamingo's castle, intent on his head. Luffy, Abdullah, and Jeet continue riding away from Pica, the latter two refusing to get off despite Luffy's demands. Suddenly, Law snaps out of his thought, admitting to Luffy that his plan had been a detour to crush Doflamingo, but that he, too, wanted to repay the Shichibukai after losing to him before. He then tells Luffy how Doflamingo took away the most important person to him 13 years ago. This person was Corazon, his benefactor and the former top executive of the Donquixote family, as well as Doflamingo's true brother.

Pica's larger stone body remains still due to his confrontation with Roronoa Zoro, allowing the Colosseum group to push forward. The Donquixote Family subordinates attempt to hold them off, but to no avail. Dellinger, Machvise, Gladius, Baby 5, and Lao G watch on from the second level of the newly located Royal Palace, amused at the group's momentum. They are impressed, but still confident that they will not make it through Admiral Fujitora's forces. Baby 5 comments that the Straw Hat Pirates still managed to stop Pica.
A map of Dressrosa is shown, showing the locations of: Zoro as he battles Pica; Monkey D. Luffy and Trafalgar Law as they reach the first level of the palace; the Colosseum group advancing towards the Marines; and Kyros fighting his way through individually.
The Dressrosa citizens attempt to reason with Kyros to give himself up without a fight. They explain that they aren't interested in his bounty, but that their deaths are guaranteed if all of the bounties aren't collected. Kyros empathizes with their logic, but tells them that he too must accomplish something, charging at them. At the former Royal Plateau, Nico Robin's group reach King Riku and Viola from the Colosseum, along with Tank Lepanto. Bartolomeo is disappointed that Luffy is not there, while Leo and the Tontatta are confused by Pica's larger form and the new location of the Royal Palace. Rebecca points out that they still have pursuers, but Robin easily dispatches them by making the net she had created for climbing up the plateau disappear.
Viola finds the key to Law's handcuffs, and expresses her intent to free him. King Riku attempts to persuade her otherwise, because Law and Luffy are pirates, but she replies that is precisely why they are the ones who can truly help their country. She goes on to say that the World Government granting Donquixote Doflamingo a special status and protection as a pirate is precisely how their country ended up in this predicament, and therefore she has no interest in their definition of justice. She claims they only listen to the cries of the people when it is convenient for them, whereas the Straw Hats have acted from a place of sincerity. The Tontatta agree, and bring King Riku up-to-date on how Usopp was responsible for the lifting the curse of the Hobi Hobi no Mi. They tell him that they also support the Straw Hats wholeheartedly. Rebecca decides that she will get the key to Luffy, with Bartolomeo enthusiastically asking to come along as well so he can see Luffy again. Viola warns her niece of the danger, but Rebecca assures her that she will be fine. This prompts Leo and Kabu to also offer to accompany Rebecca for further support. Everyone agrees to meet up again at the Royal Plateau afterwards.
Franky finally reaches to the factory, and prepares to fire his Radical Beam. However, before he can release it, Senor Pink emerges and attacks him, wishing to continue their previous fight. At the Royal Palace, the Colosseum group has begun  to climb the palace. This alarms the executives, as they were confident that the attackers would not make it through the Marines. As Luffy fights his way through level 1 of the palace, the Colosseum group catches up to him. Baby 5 notices that the Marines are being held back by a large wall of flame. Fujitora asks Sabo if there's no way he can convince the Revolutionary to move. As a member of the Revolutionary Army, Sabo explains that he will not let anyone pass who attempts to bring harm to Luffy or his allies. He then corrects himself, saying that he is also doing this as a big brother. This leads Fujitora to question just whose brother Sabo is.


Bastille warns his men to stay away from Sabo due to him being a Logia user. The Marines shoot at Sabo but his body is immune to damage because of his Logia powers. One Marine notes comment's on how strong Sabo's fingers are but Sabo corrects him calling them claws as he crushes a bazooka with one hand. He makes the bazooka explode as Bastille tells them to move as he'll deal with the Revolutionary. Sabo easily breaks Bastille's blade with his fingers as the vice admiral curses him. Sabo then grabs his head and states he can crush a skull like an egg as he breaks Bastille's mask. Just then, Issho brings down a meteor wondering if it can break through Doflamingo's bird cage. However, the cage merely slices the meteor to bits causing great destruction to the kingdom. Fujitora realizes his mistake and hopes no one was hurt while his men ask that he warns them before he uses his powers again. He then asks Sabo if he's aware of the predicament he's in but Sabo merely notes he's still having trouble controlling Ace's powers as he reveals he beat Bastille.
Fujitora notes that Ace was Luffy's brother and realizes Sabo is the same. Sabo confirms this stating they shared drinks together and have an unshakable bond which causes several Marines to be shocked by Luffy's brothers. Sabo mentions that should Luffy ever need help, he will be there for him. He has a flashback how he discovered Aces death and refuses to let anything happen to his loved ones again and clashes with Fujitora.
Meanwhile, on Level 1 of the platform, Luffy, Ucy, Abdullah and Jeet and Law charge through the soldiers of the Donquixote Family. Just then, Luffy sees Cavendish as he states they found a short cut and are going ahead of Luffy. The other fighters charge forward fighting the other soldiers. As Luffy and Ucy are being shot at, Kelly Funk (while using Bobby Funk's body) fights them off telling them to stay away from Straw Hat. After Kelly reintroduces himself to Luffy he tells him he found a secret passage that will lead them to the top of the castle. As they run Law questions Luffy when he will have the key to his cuffs off. Law questions if he really intends to fight Doflamingo while he's handicap but Luffy states it will all work out but Law retorts how Luffy can remain so positive. Kelly then leads them to the passage and as they enter Abdullah and Jeet fall off Ucy, much to Law's and Kelly's shock. Luffy and Law keep going as Luffy gets a call from Robin as she informs Luffy they have the key to Law's cuffs. Robin states they'll reach them with Rebecca and Bartolomeo at the Sunflower fields. Though Luffy reaffirms Law that this worked out Law states only cause of dumb luck. Just then, Law notes they ran into a dead end with water in it. Just then, someone comes from behind telling them this is just a slanted room, revealing himself to be Doflamingo.

Donquixote Doflamingo confronts Monkey D. Luffy, Trafalgar Law, and The Ucy, as they have fallen into a slanted well on the first level of the royal plateau. Angered by his presence, Luffy immediately attempts to punch Doflamingo but he blocks it effortlessly. After mocking them for getting caught into the trap, Doflamingo fires a string shot at the bull that incapacitates him and also knocks Luffy into the water. He mocks them further about how easily they were defeated, but in spite of this he commends Luffy for his ability to gather allies, especially under these circumstances. He wonders why Law would choose Luffy, and chides Law for being a coward. This upsets Law, who shouts that he will never be like Doflamingo, after having been "saved". As Doflamingo prepares to fire another bullet string, he is slashed and pierced from behind by Abdullah and Jeet.
This Doflamingo turns out to be a clone as well, but Abdullah and Jeet instead get Luffy, Law, and the Bull out of the water. After saving them, Jeet reveals that Kelly Funk betrayed them; however the clone Doflamingo showed up and slashed him down. Abdullah updates Law and Luffy that the Colosseum army has reached the 2nd level, meanwhile Kyros makes it to the first level. The Donquixote executives notice that none of the Colosseum Army has been halted by the Marines, and brace themselves for battle. Luffy punches through the ceiling of the well, creating his own passageway to the second level right in front of the Colosseum army. As Gladius berates the Donquixote subordinates for getting distracted, Chinjao takes advantage of the chaos in wake of Luffy's actions and presses toward the third level.
Back at the former royal plateau, Bartolomeo, Nico Robin, and Rebecca are confused by the Tontatta's suggestion to take stag beetles to the Flower Field on the 4th level. Leo explains that the beetles provide "jumping service" instead, since humans are too big to fly. They jump off the cliff, and notice that the beetles fly in a circle amongst each other to not fly them, but keep them afloat in the air. Leo further explains that if they land on a roof, they can then jump to receive more altitude and continue to float. They head to the Flower Fields, with Leo warning them to be wary of attacks from below.
At the SMILE Factory location, Inhel and the other Tontatta have arrived. They announce to Franky that they have a plan for getting in, but require him to deal with Senor Pink first. He agrees to do so, while being slammed by Pink from behind. On top of Pica's large stone body, Roronoa Zoro is enjoying his clash with Pica's real form. On the ground level, Sabo is still clashing intensely with Admiral Fujitora. Back on the second level of the Royal Palace, Cavendish tells Luffy to listen to a plan that he has.
In the royal palace, Doflamingo comments that his clone was not able to accomplish its objective. He asks Diamante and Trebol if they remember the day they met Law. Diamante reflects on how crazy he was, while Doflamingo laments that he must kill him, as he remembers how Law used to resemble him. He recollects his first memory of a young Law: a young child has infiltrated his palace, with his entire body covered in explosives. He asks Doflamingo to let him join his crew, as he wants to destroy everything that he sees. He goes on to say that he was raised in the white city, and doesn't have much time to live.

Bellamy reaches the palace rooftop, and Doflamingo asks him why he came. Bellamy then asks if it was really Doflamingo who sent Dellinger to kill him, wondering if he can no longer do anything for Doflamingo. Doflamingo laughs, and tells his former underling that the two of them had different goals from the start. While Bellamy was content to be an ordinary pirate, Doflamingo's main goal was to destroy the world.
Elsewhere, the Corrida Colosseum fighters continue toward Doflamingo's castle. However, Dellinger focuses on one fighter: Suleiman. Several apparitions of Dellinger surround Suleiman, and the Donquixote officer rams into the combatant, stabbing him with his horns. The other fighters are shocked to see Suleiman go down, and turn their attention to the other officers. Chinjao, however, pays them no mind, as he has already climbed to the third floor of the palace. However, Gladius uses his powers to blow up part of the wall, causing Chinjao to fall. Boo is shocked at this turn of events, and does not notice a ten-ton Machvise falling on top of him until it is too late. The Dressrosa soldiers cheer as the tables are turned on the Colosseum fighters, while Lao G and Baby 5 deal with Orlumbus and Dagama, respectively.
In the south of the Dressrosa village, the citizens of Dressrosa manage to tie down one of the citizens who had been controlled by Parasite. The controlled citizen tearfully apologizes for all the atrocious actions he was forced to do, but the other citizens know it was not his fault. Just then, another citizen races toward them, exclaiming that he knew where King Riku and "God" Usopp were. Eager to end Doflamingo's game as soon as possible, the citizens take up arms and prepare to capture the two alive, using their "prisoners" as bait.
At the SMILE Factory, the overseers force the enslaved dwarfs to clean up a spilled SAD container, and attempt to draw their attention away from the chaos outside by whipping them and continuing to tell them about Princess Mansherry's "illness". As the overseers bark out orders, however, the dwarfs notice words on the outside of their cage, saying "Open the lock from the inside!" The dwarfs realize that the words were formed by pink bees and that Bian, Inhel, and Wicca were trying to contact them. The three dwarfs on the outside see that the dwarf slaves noticed their message, and Bian instructs the bees to form the next message, which states "We've been tricked!" This message greatly confuses the dwarf slaves, and the overseers start to get angry at them for not working. Just then, the pink bee's final message forms, saying "FIGHT!" The dwarf slaves, though not entirely sure what is going on, know that their friends would never lie to them and start attacking the overseers.
Meanwhile, Cavendish, Luffy, Law, and Kyros (the latter of whom is unseen to the former three) ride on Farul toward a wall behind which are the Doflamingo officers. Luffy is intent on defeating them right away, while Cavendish intends to climb up to the third floor. Suddenly, the two of them notice Kyros sitting behind them, which causes Cavendish to get angry and Luffy to get excited. Kyros says that he had followed the trail that Luffy had made, and an angry Cavendish calls him a stalker and yells at him to get off because Farul cannot hold three people. Luffy tells Kyros that they will be meeting up with Rebecca soon, and the former combatant is shocked and angry to find that his daughter is behind enemy lines. He asks Luffy why he did not stop her, since Rebecca is on Doflamingo's wanted list. Luffy reassures him, saying that Rebecca was with one of his crewmates, and Kyros states that there is only one thing he wants to do: kill Diamante, the man who killed his wife. Luffy asks Kyros if he intends to die, which Kyros denies, and that coupled with Cavendish's pleas for one of them to get off his horse cause them to take their eyes off the path. Before they know it, they are in the midst of the Colosseum combatants-Donquixote agents battle.
The arrival of Luffy causes the Colosseum fighters to become more organized in their attacks, surprising the Donquixote agents. The fighters unanimously agree to hold off the Donquixote agents in order to get Luffy, Cavendish, and Kyros to Doflamingo. Annoyed, Dellinger headbutt-stabs Dagama, shocking Luffy, but Dagama suddenly wraps himself around Dellinger, trapping the Donquixote agent. He yells at the four of them to keep going, and Luffy and Cavendish use the Gomu Gomu no Jet Gatling and Biken: Saint Exupery to blast the Dressrosa soldiers away. One soldier remarks in anger that the once-unorganized fighters have finally started to come together.

In the scrap yard of Dressrosa, Kin'emon finds his friend Kanjuro and, as a result of the reunion, sheds tears of joy. Dressrosa soldiers note how Kanjuro came out of the wall while Kin'emon apologizes for making him wait. Kanjuro states there is no need for apologies and states he knew he would return for him, as he eats a self-drawn cabbage in hand. He offers some to Kin'emon, who refuses, stating his cabbage makes his stomach hurt. He tells Kanjuro that he has much to tell him and that they must leave immediately due to the situation on top of Dressrosa. Kanjuro agrees and draws a bird on the wall and shouts "come forth" as his drawing comes to life, much to the shock of the Dressrosa citizens and soldiers. They note that despite the fact that the sketch is alive, his artwork is terrible and seems hardly capable of flight. Before they leave, one of the trapped citizens asks the samurai to let the others accompany them, stating they all have family on the island and wish to reunite with them.
The scene changes back to the battlefield of Dressrosa as members of the Donquixote Family try to stop Luffy, Law, Cavendish and Kyros (all riding Farul) from moving forward, only to end up getting kicked back by Blue Gilly. Dellinger then rushes from behind and kicks him with his Decapitation High Heal and defeats him. Luffy notices this but is told not to get distracted by Cavendish. He goes on stating Doflamingo's whole Bird Cage game is a farce and that even if they deliver all 12 of the people on Doflamingo's hit list, he will never let anyone live now that the knowledge of his arms dealing, and toy operation is out. In other words, everyone is guaranteed dead. He states that Doflamingo will stop at nothing to make sure that that information isn't leaked out, effectively isolating the island of Dressrosa from the rest of the world. In other words, the only way to survive and make it off the island is to take Doflamingo's head. He states that though Doflamingo is one step ahead of everyone, his grave error is having so many powerful fighters on the island, including Sai, Ideo and Hajrudin, who face off against the Donquixote Family Officers. Once Cavendish states that he will be taking Doflamingo's head, Luffy, Law and Kyros all disagree and reply that they will be taking Doflamingo's head. Luffy reminds Kyros that he wanted to have Diamante's head, but Kyros replies that by taking Doflamingo's head, he would be restoring King Riku's honor, and would be repaying his 10-year debt. This prompts Law to state he has a thirteen-year-old debt and Luffy stating he has a thirty-year-old one, which has Cavendish snapping at him for lying to make himself look good. Once they arrive at the third level they are confronted by large toy puppets.
The scene changes to Zoro vs Pica. Pica is winded in his fight with Zoro as Zoro mocks him over trying to take Luffy's head. Pica charges his weapon at Zoro, but the swordsman cuts along his arm which has Pica swap out with a stone statue. He then merges behind Zoro and strikes with Pulpostone but Zoro dodges and notices Robin's group flying overhead. As Zoro asks how they are flying, Bartolomeo takes joy in seeing Zoro again and asks for his autograph. Rebecca takes notice of Pica in fear while Robin asks Zoro to keep Pica busy so they can reach the fourth level. Zoro agrees just as Bartolomeo notices Pica has merged once again with the large stone body. Pica aims his fist at them as Bartolomeo panics, stating he won't be able to block something so large. Zoro then uses Senhachiju Pound Ho on the large stone arm, finally injuring Pica. As Rebecca and Robin stare in relief and amazement, Zoro tells Pica that the Straw Hats biggest threats aren't composed of just "God Usopp" and "Straw Hat Luffy", but himself as well, stating he will one day become the greatest swordsman in the world and that Pica was never in his league to begin with. Bartolomeo then weeps uncontrollably at Zoro's actions.

At the trash heap, Kanjuro helped the trapped citizens and soldiers by drawing crude ladders towards the surface (though they complain about how horrible the ladders were drawn).
At the SMILE factory, the Dwarves continue to fight against the Donquixote staff. The staff member who whipped Chao, trying to defend himself, lied to the dwarf, saying that Mansherry would not be healed. Another dwarf put earplugs in Chao's ears, telling him that the staff is trying to lie. Chao got his revenge on the abusive staff member, swinging him around in the air. They eventually defeat the staff members with the earplugs in them while Maujii rushes to save Princess Mansherry hoping her illness was a lie. Despite the room she's kept in says "keep out" Moussy bursts right in much to their shock. Unfortunately for them, they see it's empty and Mansherry isn't there. Seeing that she's not there, the Dwarves decide to open the door to the factory. While that goes on Franky continues his battle with Senor Pink and, having heard the door beginning to open, he tricks Pink about an old woman in need of assistance in an alley.
While the Dwarves try to open the door, the boss of the factory, Kyuin stops them telling them they were born as nothing but slaves for them all. Refusing to let them go, Kyuin uses her vacuum machine and sucks up several Dwarves. They try to open the door, but they get sucked up before they can. Luckily, Franky shows up and opens the door completely for them. As he congratulates them for their work, the Dwarves marvel over his body while Inhel and the others tell them Franky is their ally. Kyuin realizes who Franky is and is impressed he made it this far while she tries to finish him off herself. However, Franky grabs her, which has the Dwarves believe he loves her now that he hugged her, to which Pink comes back angry to discover Franky lied (but is relieved there was no old lady needing help). Kyuin keeps striking Franky with punches but the Cyborg remains calm as Pink launches an attack while Franky uses Kyuin to headbutt Pink on collision.
As Kyuin recovers, she swears she'll rip Franky to pieces and that she's the boss of the Factory. However, Franky pulls her in and kisses her to shut her up, much to the shock of the Dwarves. Kyuin then starts acting very shy, telling Franky he needs to take responsibility for his actions and become her boyfriend, but Franky ignores her. Pink gets up and tells her to stay out of this, calling her a naive young girl, and that it's a fight between men as he and Franky are heart-breakers. Their statements sent the surrounding fangirls swooning over the manliness of both Senor Pink and Franky. They then decide to take the fight seriously and unleash their "Diaper Bomb" and "Nipple Light Special" attacks on each other respectively.
The scene changes to Zoro vs Pica while the latter curses Zoro for allowing Robin's group to escape and swears he will not  leave anyone alive. Robin's group then reaches to the first level while Leo gets a call from Moussy who reveals Mansherry may be in the palace with Doflamingo.
At the King's Plateau the citizens begin to climb up to his and Usopp's location. Usopp panics but Viola and Doldo remain calm given that they can't hide anywhere with the condition the kingdom is in and the citizens wouldn't do anything bad to them. Doldo tells Viola to use her ability to search everywhere for Mansherry's location. He states Doflamingo wouldn't kill her given her ability is useful to him. At the Royal Palace, a guard is seen feeding food to Mansherry while the latter is crying her eyes out wanting to go home and begging Leo to save her.

Viola searches for the entire palace for Mansherry, trying places she had never been in her years serving the Donquixote Family. Usopp marvels at Viola's power, when Tank Lepanto notices that two strangers, Kin'emon and Kanjuro, have arrived. He puts Kin'emon in a chokehold, but Usopp stops him, asking what Kanjuro's poorly drawn bird is. Kin'emon voices his surprise that Usopp, Viola, Lepanto, and Riku had managed to get up to the King's Plateau while a bunch of pirates were trying to climb up now. Usopp agrees noting cause of the rocks they can't climb up, but Kanjuro reveals he drew ladders for them and the citizens now begin to climb up the ladders now, much to Usopp's horror angrily asking why he did that. Kanjuro realizes he shouldn't have done that just as Viola finds Mansherry's location. Kanjuro feels disgraced for having done such a thing and attempts Seppuku to which Kin'emon stops him but Usopp tells him to do it. Usopp then asks who Kanjuro is and he introduces him. Viola then relays the information to Leo and Rebecca to which Leo expresses his worry for Mansherry. Viola tells him of the location and he realizes it's the "time out" room. Leo then gets tearful as it reminds him of Scarlett and that whenever he and the others visited the palace they'd get in trouble with Viola by Doldo but Scarlett would bring them food to which Leo admits he misses Scarlett. Leo thanks Viola for the information and she tells him to be careful.
As they reach the third level Robin notes there are some black balls heading towards them as she tries to warn Bartolomeo, but the latter is too entranced with working together with the Straw Hats and is attacked by "Punc Bala" in explosions. As Bartolomeo falls Kabu warns them of the Pamu Pamu no Mi as Robin begins to fall as well. Gladius sees them and goes after Rebecca noting he didn't see people coming from above, but Robin uses her powers and grabs him telling Rebecca she'll deal with Gladius and tells her to move on ahead.
Back at the plateau Usopp (after having given Kin'emon and Kanjuro a beating) hears from Viola that she saw some nasty toys in her direction and discovers that Sugar is awake, much to Usopp's horror. Usopp says she should be out cold after his "Sure-Kill-Jack-in-the-box" face for at least two or three days. Viola worries since Luffy doesn't know of her ability and they are in trouble. At the palace, Sugar screams in terror seeing a foot soldier with a long nose and giving her sausages for food to which Sugar yells at him that people with long noses should die and she won't eat anything that looks like a long nose and only wants grapes. She then turns him into a nutcracker toy while frustrated over failing Doflamingo and swears she'll turn everyone in the country into toys, especially Usopp.
On Level 3 Cavendish tells Farul to run but the horse is bitten by the nutcracker. Luffy punches him off with a jet pistol while Cavendish tends to Farul noting his head was crushed. The toy easily recovers despite a hole in its chest much to Luffy's shock. Cavendish angrily retaliates at the toy with Biken: Round Table which cuts the toy's head off. However, it recovers again as the trio stand before the numerous toys thinking they're immortal. Law curses the situation noting he'd be able to make short work of them if he was free of his cuffs. Just then, Luffy sees something falling from the sky as Bartolomeo lands on a soldier as Robin flies herself down. As Robin gets reacquainted with Luffy, Law demands the key to his cuffs. Gladius falls down to as he curses Rebecca escaping while musing she was able to escape by herself swearing he will finish her himself. He then introduces himself as he prepares to face his opponents. Robin and Bartolomeo tell Luffy and the others to advance stating they'll fight Gladius and the toy nutcrackers. She then tells them that Rebecca is in the flower fields waiting for them and has Law's key.
At the flower fields Rebecca's group makes it while she worries over Robin but Leo reassures her that she and the crew are strong. Leo says they must go to save Mansherry and asks Rebecca if she'll be fine on her own. She says she'll be fine that Luffy and his friends should be at the fields any minute. As Leo and Kabu leave Rebecca notes that her father is out there somewhere also. Just then a noise is heard in the fields as a figure gets up from the thick flower field. The figure reveals himself to be Diamante who smiles at Rebecca's sudden appearance while Rebecca is horrified by his presence.

On Level 3 of the Royal Palace Plateau, Gladius fires several Rupture Balls at Luffy's party, but Bartolomeo blocks them with a barrier. He then creates a staircase using the barrier, excitedly telling an excited Luffy to use it. Luffy thanks Bartolomeo, and the latter thinks about his adoration of the former, thanking him for his mere existence. Picking up the still-handcuffed Law, Luffy races up the stairs, but the toy nutcrackers attempt to climb up the sides and block them. Kyros, however, races ahead and slashes their heads off at the mouth, before continuing ahead up the stairs first. Cavendish tells the three that he'll take care of the rest of the nutcrackers while they go ahead, citing his desire to avenge Farul as the reason.
Suddenly, Gladius throws some Rupture Balls at the staircase, but Bartolomeo blocks it, this time using his body instead of his barriers. Cavendish angrily asks him why he didn't use barriers, but Bartolomeo explains that there's a limit on the surface area of his barriers, and the stairs took up all of it. He states that he would gladly do anything, even give up his life, for Luffy. Cavendish is angry, but says he'll fight alongside the combatant until he can use his barriers again. Suddenly, a nutcracker tries to attack Bartolomeo, but it is quickly finished by Nico Robin, using Cinco Mano: Spank without even looking at it. Robin empathizes with Bartolomeo, stating that Luffy was worth betting their lives on, before going on the declare that he is the winning trump card. Scenes of various allies and crewmembers in the midst of their battles are shown as Robin makes are statement. Robin then uses Mil Fleur: Gigantesco Mano, which surrounds Gladius with giant hands while knocking several nutcrackers aside as Robin states that she won't let him lay a hand on her captain.
Elsewhere, the fight between Fujitora and Sabo continues. The admiral asks Sabo about his objectives, but Sabo knows he is not acting seriously. Fujitora asks Sabo to sympathize with him because he is blind, but the Revolutionary says that he will not treat him differently from any other enemy. Fujitora, states that he has a title to keep and decides to be serious, unleashing an attack which creates a gravitational force that presses on everything to his left. Sabo races to attack Fujitora, excited that he was able to get the admiral serious, while wondering what his true plan is. Fujitora manages to counter his strike, and states that if Sabo wants to play this "game" against him, he must be prepared to forfeit his life if he loses.
Meanwhile, Rebecca hides in the Sunflower Fields, not wanting to fight Diamante. Diamante taunts her about her gladiator past and how she was once the Colosseum's highlight, but now it was time to dispose of her. He swings his sword at her location, and knocks her, wounded, to the ground. Rebecca thinks about how Diamante killed her mother Scarlett, while Diamante decides to kill Rebecca with a gun like he killed Scarlett. When Rebecca hears his choice, she screams for Thunder Soldier to come, when suddenly, he races up and slashes at Diamante with his sword, now appearing to him and Rebecca as Kyros for the first time. Diamante is incredibly shocked and scared to see him, and Kyros yells that he won't let the Donquixote executive take away two of his family members. At the same time, Rebecca notices her savior's missing leg and reflects on how the legendary combatant Kyros was also Thunder Soldier, her caretaker and father. Kyros apologizes to his daughter for not being able to do anything as Thunder Soldier other than teach her how to fight. He promises now that Rebecca no longer needs to fight. Diamante asks Kyros what he means, and Kyros replies with a declaration that all their lives (referring to the Donquixote pirates) will be forfeit.
Suddenly, Luffy and Law reach the top of the staircase, screaming for Rebecca to give them the key to Law's handcuffs as a nutcracker closes in on them. A few seconds later, Law is freed and the nutcracker is cut to pieces, which angers Diamante immensely. Kyros tells the two that he has his hands full with the Donquixote executive, so he leaves Doflamingo to Luffy and Law.

Luffy leaves Diamante for Kyros to battle as he and Law prepare to head off to meet Doflamingo. Diamante says he won't let them, and Kyros responds that he is the Donquixote officer's opponent. While Kyros says this, Luffy talks to Rebecca, happy that she met her dad for the first time. Luffy prepares to head off, when Rebecca asks him if he really is going to defeat Doflamingo. Luffy responds by telling her his real name (Rebecca previously only knew him as Lucy) and affirms her question. Diamante then gets angry at Luffy and Law and stretches his sword to attack them, but Law uses Room and Shambles to make a hole in the palace wall and teleport him and Luffy inside the palace, much to Diamante's rage. Luffy is in awe of what Law just did, but the Shichibukai states that using that much power left a toll on his body, which was not in good condition due to Doflamingo shooting him with lead bullets. However, a Donquixote servant spots them and reports to Sugar, who is desperate to get revenge for the undoing of the Hobi Hobi curse which she put on thousands of people. She plans on touching Luffy and Law and turning them into toys, which will erase everyone's memory of the two famous pirates.
On the Royal Plateau, Usopp tells his crew about the seriousness of Sugar back on the loose. He remembers how he forgot Robin when she was turned into a toy, and is desperate not to forget Luffy as well. He is prepared to do anything at any cost to protect his captain from Sugar, but Kanjuro asks him how he is going to do anything when he is so far away from the palace and especially since Luffy and Sugar are within the palace walls. Usopp replies that he has no other choice as he readies his Kabuto, and is ready to fulfill his role as the Straw Hat Pirates' sniper by providing support from afar. Kin'emon asks if there is any way they can help, and Riku tells Hack and Tank Lepanto to help him protect Usopp and himself from the bounty-seeking mob, who are getting closer and closer using Kanjuro's net, but also tells them not to hurt any of the people. Usopp prepares his shot with the help of Viola's powers, when the mob reaches the top of the plateau.
The mob prepares to capture Riku, Viola, Kin'emon, and Usopp and take them to Doflamingo, and Kin'emon offers his assistance against them. Right then, Sugar approaches Luffy and Law, and the former wonders who she is. As Riku unsuccessfully tries to get the mob to stop, Viola guides Usopp towards Luffy, Law, and Sugar's location. The Kabuto aims for the lower part of the center palace window, and as Sugar draws closer and closer to Luffy and Law, Usopp takes aim, determined not to lose his captain. Not wanting to let Sugar get his way, Usopp prepares to fire his Great Black Kabuto, when suddenly he realizes with a shock that he can see Luffy, Law, and Sugar's auras. As the mob gets closer to him, Usopp finally fires his Bagworm Star.
The mob finally gets their hands on Usopp, but all he can think about is the shot's trajectory. Knowing there is a slight tailwind, Usopp put in two gunpowder boosters to help the shot go farther, and made sure that the outer wrappings would fall away so that his shot would definitely hit Sugar. However, he knew that even if it missed a little, it would still work as the shot was meant to induce trauma. This becomes clear when the shot is revealed to be a replica of the expression Usopp made that knocked out Sugar the first time. It works, and Sugar is once again scared into unconsciousness. This shocks the Donquixote servants and confuses Luffy and Law as Usopp's face projectile is absorbed into the wall and becomes a drawing, and it is revealed that the projectile was a drawing made by Kanjuro. Back at the King's Plateau, Viola congratulates a tied-up and beaten Usopp, and it is revealed that the mob managed to tie up all their targets, but were sent into shock by Viola's arrival. Viola confirms that Law and Luffy have managed to reach Doflamingo.
At that moment, Luffy and Law stand face to face with Doflamingo and Trebol, with Bellamy unconscious on the ground. The Shichibukai asks them why they have come, and they both reply that they have come to beat him. Doflamingo appears to express disappointment at this, claiming that he had hoped to meet on friendlier terms.

On Level 3 of the Palace Plateau, Cavendish is shocked to see Sugar's nutcrackers breaking apart on their own. Shortly, the nutcrackers turn back into people, with eight people being used to make each nutcracker. Bartolomeo rejoices that he can make barriers again, Cavendish expresses anger that Sugar used her own servants to make the toys, and Gladius reflects with annoyance that Sugar was defeated once again. Meanwhile, Sugar's servants crowd around her, shocked to see her knocked out again. The servants who Sugar turned into toys talk about how they were worried they would be toys forever, but Gladius reassures them that they would have been turned back, though he knows that that would have been impossible.
On the fourth level of the palace, Luffy sees an injured Bellamy lying on the ground and expresses his worry, amusing Doflamingo who knew that the two used to be enemies. Luffy states that that was all in the past, and tells Doflamingo to let go of Bellamy. Doflamingo replies, saying Bellamy came to him with a death wish and that this was the way he deals with things, as Luffy remembers Bellamy's total devotion to Doflamingo. Doflamingo tells Bellamy that the latter was always a failure, and failure would be punished by death. Luffy replies angrily that Bellamy had changed and uses his powers to strike Doflamingo with his foot, despite Law warning against it. However, Doflamingo uses Bellamy to shield him from Luffy's kick, and Luffy kicks Bellamy in the face, much to the former's shock.
Luffy hastily apologizes for injuring Bellamy, and Law yells at him to control his anger, otherwise he would fall into Doflamingo's hands. Law states that for Luffy to lose control of his emotions would be the same as losing his life, as the same thing happened to him, and he calls Doflamingo a heartless man. Suddenly, Trebol breaks out in laughter over Luffy kicking Bellamy, making Luffy angrier. Doflamingo replies to Law's accusation, saying he is not heartless but rather has reached his boiling point due to Luffy and Law destroying his SAD Factory, killing Monet and Vergo, kidnapping Caesar Clown, freeing all the toys, and trying to destroy the SMILE Factory. Now that Luffy and Law are also trying to take his head, Doflamingo says that things have gone overboard, both in their actions and his anger. Doflamingo states that his anger is where it was 13 years ago, and Law states that he would not have been here if it were not for that event, and Doflamingo says that if it had not happened, Law would have been the third Corazon and have been right at his side.
Suddenly Doflamingo uses the move "Black Knight" to make another string clone of himself, which then attacks Law. Luffy then resolves to go after the real Doflamingo, when suddenly Bellamy attacks him with two swords. Luffy is confused and shocked at what the pirate is doing, but Law knows that Doflamingo is using his powers to control Bellamy. A weeping Bellamy apologizes to Luffy for what he is doing and tells Straw Hat to stop him. Doflamingo also goads Luffy in that direction, but Luffy refuses, saying again that Bellamy is his friend. Doflamingo laughs about how even a single punch could kill Bellamy in his condition, and alludes to what Law had previously stated to Tashigi - the weak cannot choose how they die.
Luffy gets more angry that Doflamingo is not even bothering to fight them himself, and tells Law he is abandoning their plan. Law angrily berates him, and is angrier to see Luffy preparing an attack in his direction. Trebol laughs that Luffy is betraying his comrade, when Law suddenly activates Room, and switches his position with Doflamingo. By the time Doflamingo realizes Law's plan, it was too late, as Luffy hits him in the midsection with Gomu Gomu no Red Hawk.
Seeing his master attacked, Trebol desperately calls his name. Now sitting at Doflamingo's throne, Law looked up towards Trebol, before rolling upward and sliced him apart using a technique called Radio Knife. He then labelled Luffy as the worst, but the latter reminds him that he too, is a part of that generation.

In Dressrosa Koala finds Sabo and sees if he's alright. Sabo says he is while Koala scolds him for not maintaining his position stating he should not be fighting an Admiral just because he feels like it. She says he could put the Revolutionary Army at war with them but Sabo retorts stating all that mattered was him was saving Luffy. Koala then violently pinches his cheeks and continues scolding him. Sabo then recalls his talk with Fujitora as the Admiral states that the Marines in this country cannot become heroes. When Sabo asks what others will think of his opinion and he states then he'll use the excuse of having been compromised. Sabo says that's a gamble, adding that he hopes the admiral has good luck. Back in the present, Sabo, who hasn't been paying attention to Koala continues to be pinched by her while she shouts that Hack and herself are always the ones that suffer in his place when people are annoyed by his selfishness.
At Usopp's location, the citizens release Usopp and the others much to their confusion. They go on to state that by just manipulating Doldo for one night 10 years ago Doflamingo was able to turn the whole country against him and his bloodline. They state that after realizing the truth they just want to be saved from Doflamingo's cruel game. They go on stating that they were confused and don't know what to do, begging their former king to help them. The citizens then bow before Doldo stating if he wants them to fight they will do so. Doldo asks them to wait a little longer as he realizes he too is placing his faith in Luffy. At that moment, Fujitora shows up much to the surprise (and horror) of the Straw Hats. He states that he too will not allow Dressrosa to go to war. He then tells Doldo that he would be joining him in placing his bet on Luffy.
At the King's palace on Level 4 Doflamingo is seen recovering from Luffy's Red Hawk to which he spits blood out. Law tells Luffy that all the damage they've managed to inflict are superficial wounds, stating that the strategy they used won't work a second time. Trebol tries to put himself together as he states he knows everything about Law's ability and that they originally wanted the Ope Ope no Mi for themselves. However, he can't reform himself like usual. Law reveals "Radio Knife" is something that creates a different incision than a normal amputation and that for a few minutes he won't be able to reattach his body. Law rushes at Trebol using a move called "Injection Shot" as Trebol tries to reason with Law stating he helped take care of him. Trebol uses "Snot Sword" but Law dodges and charges, but Doflamingo kicks Law's attack away. Doflamingo aims an attack as Trebol grabs Law's legs as Doflamingo uses "Full Bright" that pierces Law from above. Luffy notices this and tries to help but Doflamingo rushes over to kick him. Luffy hardens his arm with Busoshoku Haki but Doflamingo does the same to his leg and it overpowers Luffy. Doflamingo then uses his powers to tie Luffy's hands behind his back and has Bellamy slash Luffy with a sword.
As the duo lay incapacitated Doflamingo tells Law how he hates being looked down upon. He goes on calling them scum and that the fact that they actually thought they could defeat him was ludicrous, going on to reveal the sacred bloodline of his heritage as a World Noble. As Luffy and Bellamy react shocked by this revelation (Law already discovered beforehand), Doflamingo states his father abandoned all of his former riches and privileges and took him and all his family to a garbage dump of a world. Labeling his father's wish to "live like real humans" as nonsense and foolish, Doflamingo ridicules his father and states how much he hated him. He then recalls himself as a child asking his father where the slaves are and wants to buy some. He then tells his father a commoner talked back to him and wants to borrow his gun. A scene of his mother dying is shown as Doflamingo blames his father over her death for living in a filthy place. Back in the present Doflamingo states by the time he was 8 he saw the heaven and hell of the world and later killed him and took his head back to Mary Geoise to reclaim his heritage. However, the Celestial Dragons labeled them as a "family of traitors" and refused to accept him as one ever again. Doflamingo then swore he would destroy every part of the world they rule. He tells them the life they have lived is nothing compared to what he's gone through and that a grown man doesn't have time to play kiddy games with them.

At the north-west town of Dressrosa, Primula, the Marines are trying to stop the panicking animals that are rushing against Doflamingo's Birdcage, resulting in their big wounds. Meanwhile, pirates have been looting the towns and are being attacked by other Marines. Vice Admiral Maynard is soon informed by a Marine about the fight between Fujitora and Sabo which ended up in a standstill. Maynard grows concerned about Fujitora's thought regarding the World Government, and quickly orders his men to ease the chaos within the city, where pirates are rampaging through the town and people are dying. A girl is then seen crying over her dying father.
Meanwhile on top of the palace, the Doflamingo clone and Bellamy attacked Luffy, who retaliates using his legs to defend himself with a new attack called "Gomu Gomu no Octopus Stamp". However he is hit by Doflamingo's clone and thrown down from the palace. Doflamingo's clone and Bellamy followed him down, and taunting Luffy about what he didn't know what a fallen World Noble can do. Luffy gets back and doesn't seem to care anything about it.
Law manages to stand back up on his feet. As the real Doflamingo prepares to kill him, Law questions Doflamingo about his fallen status and yet still have the ability to mobilize CP0. Doflamingo reveals that he knows about "Mary Geoise's national treasure", which will shake the world if its existence is revealed to the public. Therefore he can't be killed by the World Nobles, who had ceaselessly desired his death, in the end, he managed to use his knowledge to blackmail them and gain their cooperation.
The heavenly demon soon laments about the power of the Ope Ope no Mi that he should've had taken back then, and adds that if he owns it, he'll have the power to control the Mary Geoise National Treasure and take over the world. He further comments about the strength of the Ope Ope no Mi, which is able to transplant personality, and asking Law what its true power is, claiming that it is capable to fulfill mankind's greatest dream, thus making it known as the "Ultimate Devil Fruit". Law replies that he knows about it, but isn't interested about it, revealing its strongest power is to grant eternal life with the "Ageless Surgery", which upon use, will also kill the user of the Ope Ope no Mi. Doflamingo shouts that he never wanted Law to actually have it and attacks him, reminding Law of the many teachings he accepted in the past from Diamante, Lao G, and Gladius. Law soon claims that the reason he is there is because of Corazon, and that thanks to him, he'll be able to take on Doflamingo right now.
While they continue fighting, Law has a flashback to 16 years ago, at the port town of Spider Miles, somewhere in North Blue. Younger Diamante and Trebol are speaking to a child Trafalgar Law, who says that he is going to die in three years and two months, as said by his dead parents, and thus wants to kill and ruin everything as much as he can. Diamante replies that Law is a crazy kid and says that a lot of kids who "try out" for the crew always end up running away crying after two days, and revealing that Baby 5 and Buffalo, who appear from outside the building they're in and saying that Corazon is back, are the only children left. Corazon enters the room and slips onto the ground thanks to a prank pulled by young Baby 5 and Buffalo, both who laughed at his clumsy fall. He gets upset and hits the two kids. However, Baby 5 soon after offers him some tea that is actually boiling hot, which makes Corazon spit the tea out and fall backwards again. As Baby 5 laughs at him, she seems to start cleaning the mess. Diamante then comments about Cora-san being stupid and possessing no concentration but claiming he has talent and lost his ability to speak due to a traumatic incident from long ago. He also says he hates children just as Corazon grabs the young Law by his head and throws him out the window. Corazon lights a cigarette, setting his coat on fire in the process. Law barely survives the fall and looks up shocked at the burning Corazon, vowing to kill him.

16 years in the past, one week after Law joined the crew, the Donquixote Pirates dine together. The main topic of discussion is how Law got beaten by Corazon, and they remind him not to forget the Donquixote Blood Rules: Anyone who mocks the executive officers' authority will be tortured and killed. Buffalo almost experienced this when he laughed at Pica's voice, but the threat does not faze Law, who says he has seen hell. Machvise and Giolla then point out Law's illness, the Amber Lead Syndrome, which causes Buffalo to overreact, but Doflamingo slams his hand down and scolds Giolla for spreading rumors, since Amber Lead Syndrome is a poisoning and not a disease that could be spread. Doflamingo asks Law if there are any other survivors from Flevance, and Law replies that he is not sure, since he had to hide amongst a pile of corpses to escape. Doflamingo then asks Law what he hates so much, and Law replies that he does not believe anything, and swears to take revenge on Corazon for throwing him out the window, much to Baby 5's shock.
Later, Baby 5 asks Gladius about the White City where Law came from, and Gladius tells her that its name is Flevance. In Flevance, all the citizens were wealthy and the city was so beautiful it seemed like out of a fairy tale. The source of all this wealth was Amber Lead, which was located under the ground and could be used to make all sorts of beautiful things. The value of this metal attracted the attention of the World Government, who helped ship this bottomless money source. Baby 5 says she wants to go to it, but Lao G tells her that it doesn't exist anymore. Gladius and Lao G then reveal that for 100 years, the World Government and the king of Flevance knew the truth about amber lead nearly a century before it was even mined: it was poisonous to handle. However, they kept it a secret from the people because they wanted the fortune from the amber lead. The worst part about it was it was a slow-acting poison. Each generation that was born with Amber Lead Poisoning had shorter lifespans than the previous generation, until Law's generation which would die before they even became adults. By the time the people of Flevance realized this, however, it was too late.
Due to the generation gap in poisoning symptoms, everyone came down with illness at around the same time. People began to drop dead quickly, but while Gladius and Lao G were at this part Senor Pink swam in, saying that the true tragedy had only begun. When the countries neighboring Flevance found out what was happening to the people, they stopped trading with them and effectively quarantined them. The World Government evacuated the royal family, abandoning the rest of the people, who were shot out of fear if they attempted to seek help from neighboring countries. Finally, Flevance had had enough and went to war with the neighboring countries. This resulted in the evacuation of the children, which included Law. Law refused to leave, since his sister Lami was about to die, so the nun in charge of him agreed to let him wait for the next ship. As Law saw the other children determined to live on, the nun expressed her hope in the world's mercy.
At the hospital in Flevance, the doctors, including Law's father, were unsuccessful in an effort to find a cure for the poisoning, while expressing their frustration at the World Government's refusal to tell the truth about the non-contagious nature of Amber Lead Poisoning. Law visited his ailing sister Lami, and expressed his confidence that their dad could find a cure. When Lami heard the loud noises of battle outside, Law lied to calm her, saying it was a typical festival. However, he headed outside to find his parents, the nun, and all the children shot down by the invading army whose goal was to kill anyone carrying the syndrome. Law began to break down in tears, and became completely hysterical after the invaders burned down the hospital Lami was in and completed the total destruction of Flevance. Senor Pink says that after going through such an ordeal at the age of ten, it's no wonder that Law's personality is messed up.
Elsewhere, Law finds Corazon smoking on a pile of wreckage. He brandishes a sword, saying that Corazon had no right to live since his parents and sister died. Law rushes at Corazon and manages to stab him in the back, but his action is witnessed by a shocked Buffalo. Buffalo then races to report Law's violation of the Blood Rules to Doflamingo, who is currently sleeping, which will lead to Law receiving the skewering torture and then being killed for his crime.

Doflamingo has a nightmare about how he and his family were hung off a building by a large mob, who were eager to avenge the wrongs they suffered at the hands of the World Nobles. The mob debates on whether to kill them or make them suffer, as well as how best to make them suffer. Individual people tell the Donquixote family about the atrocities the World Nobles inflicted on them and their loved ones, and how the tax the World Nobles demanded had sent them into poverty. One person taunts Doflamingo's family about how terrible the World Nobles were, and asks them if they even know what pain and suffering really are. Suddenly, Doflamingo's Den Den Mushi rings, waking him up in a cold sweat. Shaking and breathing heavily, Doflamingo puts his glasses on, douses himself with drink, and goes to pick up the phone.
33 years ago in Mary Geoise, Donquixote Homing, Doflamingo's father, prepares to leave the life of a World Noble along with his wife and two children. The other World Nobles are shocked and angry about Homing's desire to leave as well as his belief that he was only human. The Donquixotes are taken to the northern end of a World Government non-member nation, and are given a mansion and a small fortune to live a quiet life, as is Homing's desire. Doflamingo, however, does not realize what his father's action meant, and immediately asks to get some slaves. When Doflamingo heads onto the streets, he is shocked to find that the other citizens won't bow down to him, and is disoriented by his lack of a weapon on hand. Doflamingo's loud complaints alert the people about the Donquixotes' heritage, and they burn down the Donquixote mansion.
The family was able to escape and found temporary refuge in an old house surrounded by garbage while Doflamingo complains incessantly. Homing called the other World Nobles requesting them to allow his wife and children to return to Mary Geoise but he was denied saying that it was the life he have chosen and that they can no longer return saying that they do not accept discarded things.
Doflamingo and Rosinante, Corazon's real name, was then shown experiencing the hardships of being human: they were beaten up by a bunch of thugs and eating leftovers to satisfy their hunger. Shortly afterwards, their mother died and Doflamingo blamed his father for everything that has happened.
Back to present time, Law was then brought to Doflamingo thinking that he will be punished for what he did to Corazon. Surprised to see Corazon by his brother's side looking oblivious as ever, Law stilled when Doflamingo said that he intends to make the boy a member of the Donquixote Family explaining that Law has the potential.
Even so, Law remains skeptical knowing that he will die in three years. Doflamingo was optimistic and informed the boy about his black market business. That in three years time, they might find a Devil Fruit that can cure Law's sickness. Doflamingo himself promised to train the boy as he intended him to be his right hand man.
Law learned that Corazon did not report his actions and instead protected him by lying about the wound as it was an enemy's doing.
Law spends the next two years with the Donquixote Pirates with Corazon's occasional mishaps. While part of the Donquixote Pirates, he learnt swordsmanship from Diamante, marksmanship from Gladius and martial arts from Lao G while being tutored personally by Doflamingo.
Noticing the white spots worsen, Law informed  Buffalo and Baby 5 that he might not last another year so he does not care whether he tell them his real name or not. Buffalo threatened to rat him out and after constant nagging from the two, Law reveals his full name Trafalgar D. Water Law. D. is supposed to be a secret and Water was his true name. The two even thought his name was boring and Law glared back in response making Baby 5 cry.
Corazon, appearing out of nowhere, grabs Law and took him to a secluded place. It was here that Corazon speaks for the first time surprising the boy himself. He told Law that people like him must not be anywhere near Doflamingo and urges him to leave.

Law was surprised that Corazon can speak and asks why would he hide all this from Doflamingo to which Corazon states Doflamingo came to the conclusion he couldn't speak. As Law starts shouting Corazon snaps his fingers saying "silent" and Law is now unable to hear people talking. He wonders what he did knowing he can definitely tell that people are having conversations outside. Corazon reveals he put up a soundproof barrier because Law was making a scene and inside his soundproof wall no one can hear them talk and those outside can't hear them either, revealing he's a silent human who ate the Nagi Nagi no Mi. Law then reacts shocked wondering if Corazon has always just been putting up an act about being mute and clumsy to which Corazon says it's all been an act (though the latter sets his mantle on fire revealing he's always been clumsy).
Though Corazon admits he's always been clumsy, Law demands why he would hide all this from his comrades. Corazon reveals he's never thought of them as comrades. As Doflamingo's younger brother, it is his duty to keep his brother's madness at bay and wonders how could his kind-hearted parents give birth to a monster he'll never know. He goes on to state Doflamingo isn't human and recalls the time he was being pinned to the wall by the angry mob. Homing pleads with the mob to let his sons go and shoot their arrows at him. A young Corazon pleads to die as he can't take the pain anymore. However, a young Doflamingo shouts they will pay for this and he will not die while promising to kill every last person who harmed him, shocking all the bystanders and his family. Back to the present in Law's past, Corazon states that Doflamingo was born pure evil knowing nothing of fear and the only ones who know of this are the four executives and the former "Corazon", Vergo. When Law asks who Vergo is, Corazon states he's an extremely skilled person on a secret mission that even he does not know about and that Law does not need to know. Corazon asks Law to not become a monster like his brother and wants him to get away from him though Law refuses as he wants to become like him. Corazon says he's definitely a "D." and is a member of the "Fated Family of D.".
In the society he was born in those that bear the name of D. that "bad kids will be eaten by D." and when someone with a name D. in their name all the elders moan stating "that D. will bring forth a storm again". Law angrily asks if he's some sort of monster though Corazon says he's not sure as no one really knows what it means and that it's a name secretly inherited throughout the world and in his home they call this "Family of D.'s" to be "God's natural enemy", shocking Law. He states that if you consider the World Nobles as "God" then the objective of Law's people would be to destroy the world, but Doflamingo is after the opposite of that and that D. is supposed to be the antithesis of God. Law angrily shouts he doesn't understand what he's saying and that he only joined this family so he could kill the people who wronged him and he has less than a year to live left anyway and is Doflamingo's subordinate. Corazon offers him to leave to find a cure but Law says there isn't one and rushes back to tell Doflamingo about his powers and his ability to talk. Corazon tries to stop him with a kick but Law tosses him into the trash mentioning he's gotten stronger these last two years. Buffalo sees this and threatens to tell him but Law keeps him quiet like before with ice cream when Baby 5 lends him money.
As Corazon returns to the crew he curses Law for doing what he did wondering if this is it for him. However, Doflamingo tells him to get on board unaware of what happened before. As Corazon reacts surprised, Law reveals he owes him from two years ago for not telling anyone about him stabbing him so now they are even.
While the Donquixote Pirates are out at sea against Marines, Diamante demands Law and Corazon's location to which Lao G mentions they left somewhere. Senor Pink reveals a letter to Doflamingo saying "I've left to heal Law's illness" much to his anger. With Law and Corazon, Law shouts this is kidnapping as the Den Den Mushi rings and, thinking it's Doflamingo begs him to help. Law demands what he's going to do with him and Corazon states he's going to heal him but Law states there is no cure. Corazon then answers the call, who is then called by his real name Rosinante by the man on the other end. Rosinante states he needs to leave his post for a while mentioning he needs to handle something personal. As the individual asks how are the kids of the crew, Rosinante states those 3 just won't leave no matter what he does. The individual is revealed to be Sengoku as an Admiral and tells him to be careful and give him the report later. He then puts away paper revealing Rosinante to be a Marine Commander and is greeted by Vergo who wishes to be transferred to G-5.
Law demands to know if Corazon is a Marine, stating he hates anyone related to the Government, Corazon states he isn't one. They then arrive at a hospital and Corazon is confident they will be able to heal him. The doctor reacts shocked by Law's Amber Lead Sickness as Corazon states that it's been around for a while and when the Doctor asks where Law was from with the answer being Flevance, the doctor and nurse react horrified thinking they will be infected by Law. Law says he's had enough and doesn't think he's human anymore and leaves crying, much to Corazon's shock. The nurse calls Law a white monster as the doctor yells at Corazon for bringing law to him and tries to contact the Government about Law's condition. Corazon, enraged at their prejudice to Law, brutally punches him in the face and blows up the hospital. Corazon states that hospital was the worst and apologizes to Law for going through that and promises to find a capable doctor despite Law's plea to not go through it again. They continue to go to various hospitals, all of which treat Law with prejudice and results in Corazon taking his anger out on all of them for their cruel treatment to the boy while the government is now aware of Law's status as a survivor of Flevance.
Six months pass and Corazon wonders why he is doing this to Law and wonders if he's doing this for the sake of the D. but he doesn't care about that. He admits he felt sympathy for Law over how a child said something like "I'm going to die", he felt sorry for him. He goes on to state that when Law stabbed him, now crying uncontrollably, Corazon states it didn't even hurt and that Law was the one hurting and he could only feel compassion for him. As he walks away, Law, who heard all of this, begins to weep, finally finding someone who understands him. The next morning, Law now calls Corazon "Cora-san" much to the latter's surprise and they then get a call from Doflamingo.

Doflamingo asks his brother if they found any doctors to heal Law. Corazon taps the Den Den Mushi as a way to communicate informing his brother of their status. He tells Corazon to take Law and him back to the ship, revealing he might have a cure for his illness as a trade for the Ope Ope no Mi is up for grabs. The Marines is trying to get it and that some pirate who doesn't know of the Fruits true value is going to sell it. Doflamingo states he wants Corazon to eat it so Law can be cured of his illness. As Doflamingo hangs up he asks the other officers about Corazon mentioning that the Marines, who had formerly been able to find their location frequently, but in the past 6 months since Corazon left, they haven't. As Pica and Diamante wonder if he's a traitor, Doflamingo hopes that isn't the case as he does not want to suspect his own brother.
Corazon tells Law to rejoice as they now have a way to cure him. He states with the Ope Ope no Mi they can cure his illness, explaining how the Devil Fruit works, being able to modify the human body to cure any illness, much to Law's disbelief. However, it requires a lot of medical knowledge to use the Fruit to its full potential. Though Law retorts since Doflamingo wants him to eat it, but Corazon states he can't since anyone who eats 2 Devil Fruits will die and that they won't go back to that Family again. Corazon states that once he realized their journey would take this long he realized Doflamingo would brand him as a traitor. He then thinks to himself that he knows that Doflamingo wants him to eat the Ope Ope no Mi to give him eternal life and if they go back they will die. He tells Law they are going to go behind Doflamingo's back and steal the Ope Ope no Mi and have Law eat it and cure himself of his illness and go into hiding.
He then contacts Sengoku to update him on his situation about the Ope Ope no Mi. Sengoku reacts shocked stating no one should have known about this trade and Corazon states he found out from his brother. He asks Sengoku about information about the trade and in return he'll tell him what he knows about Doflamingo's Underworld business. Sengoku reveals the trade happens in three weeks in the North Blue on Rubeck Island and Doflamingo's meeting with Corazon is within 3 days beforehand on Swallow Island. Sengoku states this is as far as Doflamingo will go and they will destroy the Donquixote Family and tells Corazon to not come anywhere near that island. Corazon agrees and promises to inform Sengoku about all the information he has on Doflamingo's Underworld business.
After he hangs up, Law collapses from his illness much to Corazon's shock. Corazon tells him to hang on mentioning his three year time limit isn't even up and Law must hang on a little while longer. Corazon begins tearing up and begs Law to hang on just for another three weeks and to give him a fighting chance. They then set sail but are caught in a storm. Law wakes up and informs Corazon about the World Government knowing about the Amber Lead they dug up was poisonous but still had them dig it all for money, and how the Government killed them. He then asks if he is a Marine and an ally of theirs, but Corazon lies stating he is not, much to Law's relief. Corazon tells him that by taking the Fruit they will make enemies out of Doflamingo, the Marines and the World Government.
Three days before the trade they arrive at Minion Island as Corazon is speaking with Sengoku who informs him of a Marine turned pirate named Diez Barrels who has the fruit and tells him to not let Doflamingo get his hands on it. Corazon then takes Law to the island.
Diez on the island is partying with his crew about the Ope Ope no Mi mentioning there was once a legendary doctor who had this power and became famous for his ability to cure any illness with its powers.
Earlier, during Law's was travels with Corazon, the former demonstrated to Law the power of the Nagi Nagi no Mi, using a move called "Calm". He smashes a vase, shoots a bazooka and farts without making a single sound. Law stated his powers were lame and Baby 5's are much cooler, much to Corazon's shame.
He then later creates an explosion around Diez's place and blows up the mansion without making a sound. With his powers, Corazon is able to sneak in without making a sound and steal the Fruit without anyone noticing. As Corazon rejoices getting the Fruit for Law he accidentally slips on the snow and is found by Diez's men. They start shooting as Law can hear this, wondering if something went wrong given Corazon should have cancelled all noises.

On Swallow Island Vice Admiral Tsuru seeing no sign of the Donquixote Pirates, questions Rosinante's intel. She then receives a report from the scouts on Minion island that there was a fire in the lair of Diez Barrels' crew and advises the scouts to find out what happened while remaining discrete since the deal must not be compromised or they will lose the fruit. At the ghost town at Minion Island, Barrels yells at his men to find the stolen fruit if they don't want this 5 billion belly deal to go south.
Rosinante, having sustained significant injuries at his slip-up with the pirate patrol manages to reach Law and presents the Ope Ope no Mi to him. Law asked him about the gunshots and fire but Rosinante dismisses those incidents and tells him that the fruit will save Law's life but Law was skeptical of the fruit's power and doubts that he will be cured. Infuriated with Law's attitude, Rosinante force fed the fruit to Law despite his protest. In the end, when Law swallowed the fruit he yells at Rosinante that he was not psychologically ready to become a Devil Fruit user but instead sees Rosinante collapse face first on the ground. Rosinante, weak from his injuries assures Law that with the fruit he can cure himself and that they outwitted Doflamingo. Knowing that Doflamingo will never stop until he can get the fruit, Rosinante asks Law for a favor that he must do. Confused with Rosinante condition, Law helps turn Rosinante around and was horrified at the numerous gunshots and open wounds on him. Rosinante told him about his blunder with a patrol and assures Law that he will survive this. Law, scared for his friend's life tries to use the fruit's power despite having no experience in it. Rosinante stops him telling that it's not like magic and reminds Law of the favor he asked him to do. At the west of the island, there is a Marine spy ship and Law must deliver an intelligence letter to the marines. It is important that the letter reaches them since it will save a kingdom called Dressrosa from Doflamingo's cruelty. Once Law delivers the letter, they will leave the island immediately.
Law manages to find a marine patrol and waits for them to leave. He later sees a lone Marine move by and reveals himself to him, giving him the letter. The man who turns out to be Vergo recognizes the importance of the letter and thanks Law, but Law tearfully begged him to save his friend who was shot. Seeing no other choice, Vergo carries Law to where his friend is, only to be shocked at seeing Corazon here. Rosinante was also surprised and accidentally revealed his voice to Vergo. Law was confused at this until he remembers Vergo's name being mentioned by Rosinante being one of Doflamingo's officers. Vergo, being suspicious of Corazon's presence decides to check the intelligence letter given to him by Law despite Corazon's protest. Rosinante cursed his bad luck since Vergo was one of Doflamingo's trusted crew members. Once Vergo reads the contents of the letter, he delivers a vicious kick to Rosinante face, no longer calling him Corazon. Law tries to stop Vergo, but the Doflamingo spy was unfazed when he grabs Law in a choking grip. He remembers Law as the kid from Flevance and cruelly reminds Law that since he is his superior, he must address him as "Vergo-san" and throws Law away. Vergo was extremely angry at Rosinante's double-crossing and destroys the letter that if given to the marines would ruin the years of planning by the Doflamingo family.
Once his beating of the two traitors was concluded, Vergo contacted Doflamingo and reveals everything he knows of what happened. Doflamingo was mildly surprised at the news of his brother being a Marine spy and that he was trying to bring him down since rejoining the family. Vergo learns that Doflamingo is currently on Minion island since he saw the marines waiting for him on Swallow island and knew that someone ratted him out. Seeing that his own brother was the mole, Doflamingo declares that Corazon is no longer part of the family and orders Vergo to retrieve the Ope Ope no Mi from Corazon since he suspects that Corazon stole it before he arrived. Vergo turns toward the two traitors only to find them gone when he was on the Den Den Mushi. Doflamingo, realizes that they escaped, assures that they won't escape and creates a Birdcage that covers a large portion of the island, preventing anyone from escaping while controlling their every move. Rosinante and Law, barely recovering from Vergo's assault witnessed the formation of the Birdcage and Rosinante knew that Doflamingo will not let them leave that easily. Rosinante knows there is no hope for him but was determined to make it his final mission to save Law from Doflamingo's wrath. He smiles at Law, saying that he'll die smiling, and expresses his hopes that if Law thinks of him when he's gone, he will remember him smiling.

31 years in the past, Vergo and Trebol cheer on Doflamingo as he holds Homing at gunpoint, ready to take revenge on his father for taking his World Noble powers away. Rosinante, who is being held by Homing, is sobbing and begs Doflamingo to stop. As Doflamingo tells of his plan to take Homing's head in order to return to Mary Geoise, Homing apologizes to his sons for having him for a father. Doflamingo then shoots Homing, causing Rosinante to bawl uncontrollably.
18 years later, the Marines look in shock at Doflamingo's Birdcage surrounding the town on Minion Island. With even greater shock, they see the pirates inside killing each other uncontrollably. In another area, one of the Barrels Pirates begs his crewmate Dorry, who ended up outside the birdcage, to help him, but Dorry runs off instead, revealing an X-shaped scar on his chin.
Elsewhere, Diez Barrels tries fruitlessly to call for help as Doflamingo stands in front of him and his crew lies dead around him. Doflamingo then shoots him as outside his crew plunders the Barrels Pirates' treasure during their search for Rosinante. Baby 5 and Buffalo fly over the birdcage to look for Rosinante, but only see bodies from the Donquixote Pirates' massacre, when suddenly they pick up a transmission. However, Rosinante makes himself seen to Gladius, and Pica then reports their success to Doflamingo. Elsewhere, Law sits in a treasure chest where Rosinante hid him. He remembers Rosinante telling him to sit tight, but he hears shouts and shots coming from outside. Law tries to get out, to no avail. Law then hears Gladius, Trebol, and some other Donquixote Pirates beating Corazon up and yelling about how he betrayed them. Suddenly, Doflamingo arrives.
Doflamingo approaches Corazon, reflecting on the six months that had passed since the latter deserted. A beaten-up Corazon remembers how Sengoku had found him after his father's murder, and holds a Marine-issued pistol at Doflamingo. Corazon then reveals his true allegiance to the Marines, and prepares to shoot Doflamingo to prevent the calamity the latter had planned to unleash. Corazon apologizes to Law for lying about his allegiances, but Law, who already knew, wonders why Corazon would tell Doflamingo, who also already knew. Doflamingo then interrogates Corazon on the location of Law and the Ope Ope no Mi. Corazon reveals that Law already ate the fruit and lied that Law was outside the birdcage and protected by the Marines on a patrol boat. Corazon's lie is backed up when Buffalo intercepted a transmission that the Marines had found a boy, but that was just a coincidence. Doflamingo in a panic then dispels Birdcage and orders his crew to find the Marine Patrol Boat.
Corazon tries to discourage Doflamingo from searching for Law, but Doflamingo states that Law needs some education on how the latter needs to die for him, something Law fully heard. Doflamingo and Corazon point their guns at each other, and Doflamingo laments on how he has to kill a family member again. Law silently panics inside the treasure chest, because Corazon had promised to make it out alive. Law remembers Corazon telling him that pirates tend to take treasure chests back to their ships and leaves Law in a chest to conceal him from Doflamingo. Corazon reaffirms Law's worries that Doflamingo won't kill his own brother and is only after the Ope Ope no Mi. He uses his Calm ability on Law so he won't make a sound and tells Law he loves him (though Law is surprised by the goofy face Corazon makes). Back in the present Law tries to get out of the chest knowing this isn't what Corazon said.
Corazon tells his brother that Law will not obey him and has beaten his fate of dying in three years and is not the same Law that wondered his way to the mad pirate Doflamingo. He shouts that there is nothing he can learn from him and that he is finally free of his madness. As Law weeps at these words, Doflamingo is unimpressed and cold-heartedly shoots his own brother repeatedly. While Law cries go unheard and many of the Donquixote Family members present (minus Buffalo and Baby 5) remain unresponsive to Corazon's murder. Law tries to break free only to remember all the time together he spent with Corazon.
The crew leaves with the treasure while Law is still inside one of them. Corazon, barely holding on to life, uses what strength he has left to stay alive long enough to make sure Law escapes unnoticed. As the Donquixote Family loads the treasure Law leaves crying uncontrollably. Corazon tells Law nothing will bind him anymore, whether it be his illness or the boarders of the White City and he is now truly free. Tsuru's ship shows up just as Corazon finally dies. The Calm field around Law wears off as Law's cries are finally heard and Corazon's body is buried in the snow while Law walks away in tears as no one can hear his voice over the cannon fire of the Marine battleships.

In the present as Law clashes with Doflamingo, he recalls Rosinante's declaration of Law's freedom to Doflamingo before the latter murders him. However he laments that will not be truly free until he accomplishes his goal of stopping Doflamingo's madness. Law creates a "Room" around them, and tosses a pebble behind Doflamingo. As he does so, he asks him what he thinks of Monkey D. Luffy, considering Law has now learned today that Doflamingo was a World Noble. He then uses "Shambles" to switch places with the rock, thus teleporting behind Doflamingo. He attempts to stab him through the back, while further inquiring what he thinks of D. Doflamingo however forms Haki over his hand and catches the blade. He states it is of no concern to Law, and pulls him forward to cut him with his strings. He then ridicules the idea that Luffy, as a D, was led there by fate to claim his head as a noble. Though disarmed, Law forms Haki over his hands and forearm to block Doflamingo's attack, while revealing that he too is a D. This infuriates Doflamingo, and the aftermath of his attack slices off the top of the palace.
At the former Royal Plateau, King Riku asks Viola about the current status of the battle. Assessing that the longer the battle continues, the more injuries there will be, she indicates that the battle has three settings: the plateau holding the royal palace, the statue of Pica, and the SMILE Factory. Upon hearing this, Usopp asks Viola how many officers still remain. She states that they are disbursed as follows: Senor Pink is guarding the SMILE Factory. Pica is still atop his stone statue. On the top floor of the palace, are Doflamingo and Trebol. At the 4th level of the palace is Diamante. On the third level, Gladius leads what remains of the soldiers. Finally, on Level 2, there are Lao G, Baby 5, Machvise, and Dellinger, whom we learn is a half fish-man of the fighting fish species.
Viola concludes that the many of the remaining fighters are heavily injured, and that the final moments of the battle are drawing near. At the SMILE Factory, Franky and Senor Pink are still battling intensely. Senor has saved a cat, much to the adoration of their female spectators. Roronoa Zoro is still locked in battle with Pica. At level three of the plateau, Cavendish is fending off Gladius while Robin uses her power to create a staircase out of legs. Cavendish goes on to remark that Gladius' minions' attacks are putting him to sleep. On level four of the plateau, Diamante begins an attack that makes the ground wave like a flag, much to the astonishment of Kyros and Rebecca. Inside the Royal Palace, Leo and Kabu are defeating Donquixote soldiers in pursuit Princess Mansherry. In front of the Royal Palace, Sabo is helping out some citizens, while Koala is running off to an unknown location. At level two of the palace, the Donquixote Family officers are defeating the Colosseum Army with relative ease. Back at the Former Royal Plateau, Viola has made it clear that if Doflamingo is not defeated, nothing will change. This leads some of the citizens to worry that the fate of their country is being left in the hands of pirates, as Admiral Fujitora watches on.
At the Royal Palace, Doflamingo, now upset at the revelation of Law's real name, is attacking him viciously. He ridicules Law for believing that fate has brought him there as well to defeat him. As he writes off Rosinante's words to Law about the "D" clan as superstition, Trebol warns him that he is now within range of Law's attack. However Doflamingo fails to take heed, and Law stabs him through the midsection with "Injection Shot". Upon this, Law tells Doflamingo that Rosinante knew fully that Law couldn't beat him by virtue of his secret name alone. He furthermore says that "Cora-san" was too kind to pull the trigger on Doflamingo, so he will do it himself.

The chapter begins with Law continuing to fight Doflamingo, with Law using Tact to throw part of the castle to Doflamingo, only to be blocked by Doflmingo's Kumo no Sugaki. Law then tries to launch another Shambles, but this time, Doflamingo grabbed his right hand and commented that he should not launch ineffective attacks to him. He states that if Law wanted him dead, he should have pitted him against Kaido and that there are millions of methods to kill someone stronger than yourself, rather than let his emotions get in the way. Law states that everything he's done and will do has been to avenge Corazon. After Doflamingo has cut Law's right arm off with Itonoko, Doflamingo says he will "forgive" Law, while pulling out his gun, in the same way he forgave his father and brother, by killing them; and that the best method is to use a lead bullet.
Suddenly, a string clone bursts out of the ground having been defeated by Luffy after Luffy performed his Jet Gatling. Trebol was surprised to see Clone Doflamingo to be beaten into pieces. Still fighting Bellamy, Luffy demands Doflamingo to release Bellamy. Doflamingo was surprised that Bellamy was not finished off yet, and releases him from his control.
Bellamy starts to reminisce about his past, including asking to join Doflamingo thinking that Doflamingo is pride of the North Blue and that he is not a pirate who day dreams. Then he thinks of fighting Luffy in Mock Town, and meeting him again in the Colosseum. Luffy promises to beat up Doflamingo and Trebol for him, but Bellamy stops him.
Bellamy uses his Spring Hopper move and darts around the room, despite Luffy telling him that he'll die if he keeps moving. Bellamy states that it is not only Luffy who has become stronger, but his Spring Hopper has become so as well. He tells Luffy that he's not going to attack Doflamingo, despite the fact that he no longer admires him, and asks Luffy to join him in his last fight.

Yelling at Bellamy for still siding with Doflamingo, Luffy points out how the latter betrayed him and that there is no reason for them to fight. Bellamy admits that may be true before claiming he doesn't care anymore and telling Luffy to stand there and take his attacks if he thinks he's bluffing. Bellamy strikes Luffy with a Haki-enhanced punch, which causes Luffy to cough up blood.
Elsewhere in Dressrosa, Zoro continues his battle with Pica, who becomes a stone monster again and causes Zoro to lose his footing and fall back to the lower level before striking with his fist. As Zoro slashes the statue in half, the lower Donquixote members try to shoot at him, but Orlumbus shows up and tricks them into lining up before taking them out using "Admiral Killer Bowling". Zoro thanks Orlumbus, who states his name and leaves Pica to him while he and the others deal with the lower members. Just then, Pica merges with the plateau. When Pica laughs, a shocked Zoro comments on how stupid it is, causing Pica to use "Charlestone", attacking Zoro and his own men in the process. While Zoro relishes in fighting a strong opponent, Dellinger complains to Pica for almost hitting him as well, allowing Ideo to hit him while proclaiming that he shouldn't take his eye off his opponent. Meanwhile, Sai and Baby 5 trade words as Baby 5 has misinterpreted all of Sai's actions and words as romantic gestures, greatly confusing Sai.
Elsewhere, Machvise has finished his fight with Hajrudin and now sets his sights on Zoro. While Hajrudin lays defeated, he laments how he cannot repay his debts despite wanting to be the king of all giants, losing the tournament, being turned into a toy and later being saved. Admits his shame, Hajrudin wonders if this is all he's able to do to help his saviors. When Machvise uses his 1000 Ton Vice against Zoro, Hajrudin gets up and tells Zoro he will handle him. Surprised at Hajrudin being alive, Machvise decides to use his 10,000 Ton Hell Vise on him while shouting that Hajrudin still must have some bones to break on him. Noting that the dead are of no use to anyone and that he can defeat Machvise even if he only has one arm left, Hajrudin uses "Gungnir" against the officer. The bones in Hajrudin's right arm and leg begin to break under the weight as he tells Machvise to fly to the heavens. As the ground beneath them begins to crater, Machvise mocks Hajrudin and states he weighs 10,000 tons. However, through sheer willpower, Hajrudin shocks everyone and sends Machvise flying while breaking his shield in half. As the lower members express shock at seeing Machvise defeated, the punch sends him straight into the Birdcage, slicing him and leaving him incapacitated. Exhausted, Hajrudin notes Machvise is not flying anywhere soon since he's not a bird and falls over unconscious from his wounds. Zoro commends the giant before promising him that the cage will be gone when he wakes up.

Zoro continues his battle against Pica and is greeted by Elizabello who states he can use his King Punch on the stone giant anytime he wishes. Zoro thanks him but states he needs to save his punch for later. They both dodge Pica's attacks while Zoro tries to figure what he's after.
Meanwhile, Lao G continues to overwhelm Chinjao with a variety of moves revolving around his old age to his advantage with his Joi Ken fighting style. However, Chinjao is more focused on Sai's presumed engagement with Baby 5 than his fight while Sai yells at him for listening to this. Sai yells at him and Baby 5 for thinking he'd get married like that while Chinjao proclaims he's already engaged to Uholishia of the Niho Navy. While this is going on, Lao G hasn't heard a thing and his soul begins to ascend to heaven. However, Baby 5 calls out to him and manages to bring him back to life while he still has no idea what is going on around him. Sai continues to stop Baby 5 from acting like she's his wife and backs away from her. She asks if he needs her and says she'll do anything for him and Sai jokes saying he wishes she'd die, stating he wishes to repay his debt to the Straw Hats. However, much to his shock, she turns her arm into a gun and points it to her head, stating she will do it by his request. As she states nothing brings her happiness but to be useful by someone, Sai tries to stop her, stating he was joking and this is not what he wants.
Chinjao scolds Sai for helping the enemy, stating a leader must be calm while Sai tells him to shut up. Baby 5 reflects on her past on how she traveled with her mother and a group of people that, thinking Baby 5 would be nothing but a nuisance, has her left in the mountains stating she's not needed by her own mother. As Baby 5 prepares to kill herself and Sai desperately tries to stop her. Chinjao interrupts, stating Sai has brought shame to the Happou Navy and prepares to strike with his headbutt. Sai counters with a kick that bends his legendary head stating it's none of his business. He then stops his grandfather from killing Baby 5 and then proceeds to slap her as well. As Baby 5 states she was trying to be of use to him, Sai notes no one has ever said no to her. While the lower members note that Chinjao's legendary head has been bent, the latter begins to cry. While Sai regrets what he did to his grandfather, Chinjao is not angry but proud that Sai has awakened the full power of the Hasshoken fighting skills stating he now bestows Sai the name "Kiryu Kirikugi" unto his martial leg stating he now has the strength to shatter the Ice Continent. He proclaims the Happo Navy is now officially his while admitting since his fight with Luffy his illness has been acting up and his age has caught up with him. Just before he can finish, Lao G, now larger, strikes Chinjao with a powerful punch. As Chinjao lays unconscious, Lao G reveals the true strength of his Joi Ken fighting style, stating he conserves his energy at a younger age with Qiqong technique.
He charges at Sai stating all of Dressrosa are slaves for Doflamingo including Baby 5 proclaiming she is nothing but a convenient tool for the Donquixote Family. He calls Sai a monkey of the Flower Country while proclaiming he will finish him off and take Baby 5 back for Doflamingo. While Baby 5 is hurt by those words, Sai proclaims if he defeats him he will marry Baby 5. Baby 5 is happy to hear this while Sai has managed to deliver a powerful Haki-impeded kick to Lao G's skull using the Kiryu Kirikugi move. Lao G apologizes to the Young Master and is sent crashing down into a crater from Sai's kick while shouting the "G" letter and cursing Sai by calling him a monkey. Sai states "call me Don" while the info box states both Lao G and Baby 5 are defeated.

At the Sunflower Fields, Diamante and Kyros are still fighting, with Kyros having a hard time keeping his balance due to the fluttering ground. Diamante makes the connection between Kyros and the Thunder Soldier and tells his opponent that their fates are connected before targeting Rebecca with an attack. After Kyros blocks it, Rebecca says she wants to help as she is nothing more than a burden right now, but Kyros says he will never let her have to fight again.
On the second floor, Zoro remarks on Sai's strength, making a note to himself to remember the Happou Navy in the event he meets them in the future, while Sai tries to wake Chinjao up and Baby 5 is dreaming of their wedding. Meanwhile on the third floor, Gladius is about to blow up the entire ground. Cavendish looks for help in Bartolomeo's barrier, and the latter lets him in eventually despite declining at first as it would be too dangerous for him and Robin. After a brief argument, Bartolomeo lets Cavendish out to keep fighting Gladius. The Donquixote officer then tries to attack Robin who is headed to the Sunflower Fields thinking it's too dangerous for Rebecca to be there, but Bartolomeo blocks him. Robin winks at Bartolomeo in gratitude, and he gets so excited that he charges at everyone with his barrier, even at Cavendish who is about to attack Gladius. By that time, Dellinger is headed for the third floor and Gladius tells him to take care of Robin as he is too busy fighting both Bartolomeo and Cavendish. He's about to do so, but he's stopped by Ideo who's still standing despite being seriously wounded. After declaring his intention to buy even the slightest amount of time for Luffy to take down Doflamingo, Ideo is finally defeated when Dellinger bites his neck with his fangs.
Shortly after, Dellinger arrives at the third floor, but Gladius tells him to stay away as there is a very dangerous enemy there. Dellinger shrugs if off, only to be finished off in one slash by Cavendish, who has awakened his Hakuba personality.

Bartolomeo notices that the assailant that has cut down Dellinger and the guards on the 3rd level appears very similar to Cavendish, but has a different face. Gladius expresses shock at this as well, while Bartolomeo recollects that the D-Block at fight at the Colosseum ended in a very similar fashion to this. As he finally makes the connection between the two, Hakuba suddenly appears directly in front of his barrier. Realizing that he won't be able to break through, Hakuba sets his gaze elsewhere. While Bartolomeo tries to reason with Hakuba, he notices that he has now set his sights on Nico Robin, much to his dismay. Unable to stop him in time, he frantically yells for Hakuba not to hurt her, but Robin effortlessly restrains Hakuba by extending her limbs from the cliffside. Noticing that something is different about him as well, Robin attempts to speak to him, while Bartolomeo fawns over her ability to stop him so easily.
While Robin has Hakuba restrained, Cavendish regains control and yells at Hakuba, telling him that he does not have his permission to appear right now. He apologizes to Robin for Hakuba's indiscriminate actions, but as he does so, Hakuba attempts to regain control, leading to an argument between the two personalities as Robin watches on. For a second, control is actually split "half and half" between the two, as one half of his face is Cavendish, with the other Hakuba. Cavendish gains control again, this time asking Robin to release him. Robin is wary of doing so, and in the confusion, Gladius begins inflating the entire cliffside to explode and eliminate both of them. Cavendish tries to tell Robin to go back down, but she reiterates that her focus is getting to Rebecca, who's on the fourth level. Understanding what Gladius is up to, Bartolomeo rushes at him to stop the attack. However Gladius shoots hairs from the top of his head into Bartolomeo, revealing that they are poisonous needles as his leg goes numb.
Gladius then inflates his entire body, stating that if he explodes, he will shoot needles much more potent at Robin and Cavendish. This forces Bartolomeo into a difficult position, as he must now choose way to deal with Gladius that prevents both the cliffside from exploding, and his body from exploding into more needles in Robin's direction. Since Cavendish doesn't matter as much to him, he asks him to protect Robin from the needles while he deals with Gladius' inflated body. It is instead Hakuba that yells back to him however, causing him to realize that Robin is not safe in either case. To deal with this dilemma, he decides to encase himself in a barrier with Gladius inflated body, so that the explosion doesn't leave his barrier, and the expanding cliffside is dealt with simultaneously. Robin yells for Bartolomeo not to sacrifice himself, but he is already resolute in his decision and attempts to cut Gladius throat. This causes the explosion to stay within the barrier, but unfortunately Bartolomeo missed his throat and cut his shoulder instead.
Still standing, Gladius now sets his sights on detonating the cliffside. With Cavendish gaining a slight control, he attempts to convince Robin to release him so that he can use Hakuba's speed to get them out of the blast radius. Suddenly Gladius sets off the explosion, and there appears to be nothing left of Cavendish and Robin. It turns out that they have escaped the blast to the fourth level, but Hakuba attempted to cut Robin in the process, forcing Cavendish to stop the blade with his own hand. Hakuba questions Cavendish decision, reminding him that it is in fact his own body. Cavendish states that as such, Hakuba should actually listen to him once in a while, and the two personalities fall into a slumber once more. Bartolomeo, now badly injured from the explosion, laments that he is still lacking in power, but someday he will become someone that Luffy can rely on. He jumps into the air and lands a "Bari Bari no Pistol" (as homage to Luffy) directly into Gladius face, incapacitating him.
On the fourth level with the Sunflower Fields, Diamante comments how chaotic the action on the lower levels sounds, then taunting Kyros about how his Army Bandera is making the battlefield, noting how difficult it is for normal people let alone for someone like him with one leg. He then attempts to attack Rebecca once more, but this time Rebecca resolves to defend herself, as Kyros can't reach her in time. He tries to tell Rebecca that she won't be able to withstand the attack, but instead Robin arrives just in time to stop the attack, revealing a new ability. She states that Rebecca has completed her mission of delivering the key to Trafalgar D. Water Law's handcuffs to him and Luffy, and now it is Robin's turn to protect her.

At the Flower Field, Diamante is furious at Robin's interference with Robin commenting on how his opponent has a handicap. Diamante just laughs saying this fight was never meant to be fair and that it is an execution. Robin tells Kyros that she will guard his daughter for the time being, so he can focus on defeating Diamante. Kyros thanks her as his anger towards Diamante has now reached its limit.
At the 3rd level, Bartolomeo notices some soldiers of the Donquixote crew taking the unconscious Gladius away and demanded to know what they are doing. They state they are just taking the defeated away commenting that it will take days before he wakes up anyway. Bartolomeo angrily tells them to get lost.
At the SMILE's factory, the dwarves approaches Viola for help, wishing to be informed of Leo's progress of rescuing Mansherry. Viola contacts Leo who informs her they are close to Mansherry's location. Viola informs him that she can see that Giolla has gotten her hands on her and intends to use her powers, much to Leo's worry. Leo and Kabu run into soldiers and easily take them down proclaiming they will save their princess. In the timeout room, Giolla is seen demanding for Mansherry to use her powers. Mansherry refuses and exclaims her desire to return to Green Bit. Giolla tells her off for calling her Boa Hancock while angrily proclaiming those that while the enemy that defeated the officers may have won, they are all gravely injured from their fights. She intends to use Mansherry's Chiyu Chiyu no Mi powers to revive the fallen Machvice, Lao G, Sugar (who was healed once before) and Dellinger stating this will catch them all off guard and turn the battle to their favor. Mansherry however refuses, realizing she was tricked by Doflamingo and refuses to let them hurt anyone else again. Giolla and her men are briefly caught by Mansherry's cute features, but Giolla snaps out of it and grabs Mansherry in an attempt to forcefully to use her powers.
Giolla asks if she cares about her friends at the factory but Mansherry states that if she heals them, they will just keep hurting others. Giolla then proceeds to squeeze Mansherry to force her powers out while Mansherry pleads in her mind for Leo to save her. Leo and Kabu are later briefly separated, with Kabu telling Leo to go on ahead and he'll be there shortly. Giolla's rough actions resulted in Mansherry crying, and her tears land on a grunt and he wakes up fully healed. Seeing this, Giolla realizes her tears have the same healing properties. She then proceeds to slap Mansherry repeatedly till she cries enough to revive the officers. Seeing this, Viola pleads with Leo to hurry.
Viola informs everyone about Mansherry's healing powers, with Usopp noting it's no wonder Doflamingo wants to keep her alive. Viola states Giolla is attempting to force Mansherry's healing powers out of her to revive the fallen officers while the other dwarves plead with Leo to succeed. Hearing this, Usopp realizes if they wake up there will be no end to their enemies and realizes this is how Sugar woke up so soon previously. As everyone cheers for Leo to save the princess, Leo bursts into the room where Mansherry is.
Giolla states it was close but showers the officers with her tears, stating round 2 now begins. Kabu then shows up stating he'll stop her and uses "Beetle Upper" on the unconscious officers. This sends them flying to the wall away from the tears just in time, much to Giolla's shock. After the tears land harmlessly on the ground, Leo wastes no time in stitching the officers and Giolla all over. He tells Giolla she can spend more time bonding with her fellow officers and uses "Haute Couture: Patchwork" on Giolla, sending all the officers and grunts sewed into Giolla with his powers defeating her. Mansherry fawns over Leo saving her, calling him a prince and blushes heavily when he catches her. Viola relays to everyone Leo saved Mansherry and defeated Giolla much to the delight of everyone present. Mansherry tells Leo how scared she was and Leo ruins the moment by asking if she gained weight resulting in a punch to the face, with Kabu noting Mansherry hasn't changed.

Mansherry attempts to flirt with Leo and asks him to carry her since she hurt her legs. Leo obliviously thinks her selfish side showed up and says she can just heal herself since she's always been very fast. This upsets Mansherry stating she's not running and didn't ask Leo to save her. Leo is angered about her mood swings and is whacked over the head by Kabu telling him to just carry her stating they don't have time to mess around. Leo carries her on his back complaining about her attitude while the Princess is happy to have him carry her while Kabu notes Leo is so thick, noting that Mansherry is polite and kind to everyone but Leo due to her feelings for him. Just as they leave Giolla regains consciousness commenting she must alert Doflamingo immediately. Knowing his calculations of Mansherry's Chiyu Chiyu no Mi powers to restore anything at the cost of one's lifespan, that should anything happen to the SMILE Factory, it can easily be restored to its original form. She is unable to move and pleads with Senor Pink to protect it at all cost.
At the SMILE factory, Franky and Pink are still at it with the cyborg landing a Strong Hammer on Pink's face. However, Pink uses the momentum to dive underground and grab Franky from behind using his MeowMeow Suplex again. Both then fall over exhausted from their injuries. The Dwarves and fans alike note they are both at their limit while asking them both why they don't dodge their attacks, stating they took them both on 30 times each. Franky states when a man is offered a drink he can't turn away from it stating Pink is a hard man. He shouts he will not dodge a single attack and take them all one and come out on top saying that is his "strong style". He knows the Dwarves are worried but it is a duel between men and promises he will win in his own way and won't let them become slaves again.
Senor Pink is touched by these words and states he'll remember them stating he's not as young as he used to be and will finish this with the next move, prompting one of his fans to note how far away he is. He then asks if what Franky said is true and that men don't go back on their word if he takes his attack without dodging. He swims towards Franky telling him to try to survive this next move proclaiming if he does survive he will admit defeat and take any punishment from Franky. Franky says it's a deal while being grabbed by Pink and swam outside the factory up a tower, much to the shock of the Dwarves. Pink notes how the sky is sadder than usual wishing he could keep going up higher to see his wife Russian and his son Gimlet but gravity is between them, prompting Franky to ask what he means. Pink reveals he knew of Franky's cyborg body and how is back is his weak spot and unleashes a devastating attack called "Baby Buster" crashing Franky into the ground. As Pink emerges seemingly victorious, he turns around shocked to see Franky, who's left eye seems to be more cybernetic now, emerges from the rubble. Pink keeps true to his word and admits defeat while apologizing to the Young Master. Franky unleashes a brutal "Franky Iron Boxing" on Pink, thrashing him around with his enlarged fists.
While being assaulted, Pink reminisces the first time he met Russian on a rainy day for their first date. When she says she hates pirates she asks Pink what he does and he lies about being a banker. In time they marry and have a son named Gimlet. He juggles his duties to his family and crew and returns one day to discover of Gimlet's death. Russian reveals he had a fever a week ago just as Pink disappeared and the doctor's couldn't help him. She reveals his lies shouting she called the bank and they never heard of him demanding to know who he really is. She angrily slaps him and runs off telling him to not follow her. However, she fell in a landslide from the rain and sand and was buried on top leaving her in a vegetative state stating she does not have long to live. Pink can only grieve over her condition blaming himself for her and Gimlet's fates. He wishes to hear her voice and see her smile even a little so he puts on Gimlet's bonnet since he had his face. Just as he puts it away thinking it wasn't funny he's shocked to see Russian smile. Since then, he took up his baby like appearance being mocked and laughed at by many, even his crew. However, Pink brushed it all off for his wife's sake. Pink proclaims to his wife this outfit has more value than any other suit because when he puts it on he can get her to smile.
Back in the present time, Pink's sunglasses break and is finally defeated by Franky. His fans weep over his defeat while the Dwarves celebrate Franky's victory. Franky, having grown to respect Pink, gently wipes the tears of Pink's face wondering what he was remembering that made him cry. As he walks away he tells him if they ever meet again that they should have a drink together and he can tell him about the woman Russian. The info box then reads the SMILE Factory victor: Franky.

At the entrance to the SMILE Factory, Franky urges the dwarves to tear it down once and for all, and they gladly comply. As they rush in, Franky collapses from his wounds, entrusting Luffy to finish everything, as the chaos on the streets of Dressrosa continues.
At the Flower Field, Diamante uses the move "Half Moon Glaive", causing a shockwave to rip across the field. Kyros, Rebecca, and Robin barely manage to avoid it, and Diamante taunts Kyros, saying that he has surpassed the former gladiator in strength and was now the true Hero of the Colosseum. Kyros states that he doesn't care about titles and honors as he charges Diamante, though the executive uses his fruit powers to avoid the former gladiator's strike. Kyros then collapses from fatigue, though Diamante commends him for his ability to run around the country and fight him on shaking ground while protecting his daughter all while doing it on only one leg, when a normal human would have collapsed long ago. Kyros bluntly states that he doesn't need a handicap, saying that he gave his leg to the man that gave him everything. Diamante then states that he will no longer give Kyros a handicap, but decides to play with him a little knowing that finishing him off would be much too easy.
Diamante then pulls out several confetti cannons, which apparently shoot confetti into the air. This confuses Robin and Rebecca, but Diamante reveals that he has used his powers to create the confetti, and turns them into spiked steel balls. The balls then rain down on everyone present, and Kyros tells Robin to protect Rebecca. Robin reminds Kyros that he too is in danger, but Kyros states that he will be fine. As Diamante takes out a steel umbrella to protect himself, he gleefully wishes farewell to his three opponents, as surviving the spiked balls is next to impossible and entire armies have been taken out by this attack. However, Robin uses "Mil Fleur: Flower Umbrella" to shield Rebecca and herself with a canopy of flowers, while Kyros uses his sword to deflect all the balls that come his way, stating that he was not the captain of the kind of army that would fall prey to an attack like this. Diamante is shocked at Kyros' prowess, and as a last resort shoots Kyros in the leg, causing him to fall and be struck by the balls.
Rebecca has a fit of rage at Diamante for his actions, and tries to rush at the executive, though Robin holds her back. Robin worriedly notices that the flower umbrella is near its limit and wonders when the rain will stop, when suddenly Kyros manages to stand up, telling Rebecca to drop her sword. Rebecca and Diamante are both shocked, and Rebecca urges her father to come to Robin's umbrella so he won't die. Kyros tells Rebecca that she has honored her mother's wish for her not to hurt people, as he remembers training her as Thunder Soldier to fight without hurting anyone, at the cost of her being jeered at by the other combatants. Despite Rebecca fighting in the Colosseum, Kyros knows that her hands are still clean and that Scarlett lives on in them. As Kyros charges toward Diamante, he tells Rebecca that he will not allow her to sully her hands on this wretched person.
Diamante is shocked that Kyros is still moving, and wonders if his body is made of steel or if he has just gone insane as they clash swords. Kyros retorts that his pain is the proof of his humanity, which the Donquixote executive could never understand, as he recalls the times when he was Thunder Soldier, and says that the spiked ball rain that Diamante created was nothing compared to being forgotten by your loved ones and being unable to feel, and though his body is not made of steel, it embodies the anger Dressrosa feels toward the Donquixote Pirates. Diamante is even more shocked now at Kyros' will, but is confident that he is still the better swordsman. The two of them reach an impasse, and Diamante prepares to use another Half Moon attack to kill Kyros just like he did Scarlett. Kyros rushes toward Diamante while remembering Scarlett, and Diamante dares him to dodge his next strike, but the former gladiator refuses. Right as Diamante prepares to execute his attack, Kyros counters it and uses "Trueno Bastard" to break through Diamante's sword and cut the Donquixote executive down.

Former King Riku and Viola remember when they had first heard about the death of Scarlett. Diamante is laughing at how Scarlett was so unlucky in being at the market. Tank remembers having to hold back Viola from trying to retaliate for her sister's death.
Kyros and Diamante's fight ends with Diamante falling back upon the grave of Scarlett, the marker having knocked him out cold. Kyros thanks Robin for protecting his daughter. Rebecca then runs to her father. Robin is shown that in her attempt to protect Rebecca, she too was injured by the spikes. As Rebecca and Kyros notice where they are, they remember the day Kyros made his promise to always be by Rebecca's side to protect her.
Viola reports to the others on the royal plateau that Diamante has now been defeated and that Kyros, Rebecca, and Robin are all safe. The people of Dressrosa are excited that the Donquixote Family are, one by one, being taken down after no one thought it would be possible. Viola confirms the family members that have been defeated by Luffy and his friends, citing only 4 now remain: Bellamy, Pica, Trebol, and Doflamingo.
King Riku decides to go into town as there is nothing more to fear of townspeople coming for his head. With this, Tank and the other townspeople decide to join him in hopes of letting everyone else know of the new found hope. At the same time, Usopp realizes that Fujitora is no longer amongst the group, as Kanjuro explains he had already gone back into town. Fujitora is then shown with the other Marines, working to get the citizens in one place to protect them.
At the palace's base Pica is shown to be using his Devil Fruit powers to create spikes all over causing the base to shake. He then appears to Kyros and Rebecca in the Flower Field, disappointed in Diamante for losing to Kyros. Pica then asks Kyros and Rebecca what exactly King Riku is to them. Kyros explains that he is family as well as his savior when he was a monster and that the country is hoping for the day King Riku takes up his throne again. With this new information, Pica disappears.
As Zoro continues to try and find Pica to fight directly, he notices that Pica is attacking all those who are too injured to fight. Upset at this Zoro continues to try and chase after the chaos Pica is causing. In Pica's destruction he discovers Baby 5 has betrayed them and attempts to grind her, but she is saved by Sai, who pushes her out of the way and uses his Busoshoku Haki to prevent himself from getting crushed. Zoro, annoyed with these tactics, continues to slash at everything that Pica presents to him. Pica then reminds Zoro that King Riku was still on the Royal Plateau. With that Pica disappears from Zoro's location and creates a giant, stone Pica that is moving toward the plateau.
Zoro, now realizing what Pica's plan was, is attempting to get to the stone Pica before he makes it to the plateau. With this Zoro realizes he has only five options to prevent the plateau from being destroyed. The first is to use a long-ranged slice with his swords, but Pica is already too far away. Second is to jump onto Pica's back, but it is too far and Zoro wouldn't survive the fall. Third is to try and yell to those on the plateau, but his voice wouldn't be loud enough to be heard that far. Fourth is to call them with a Den Den Mushi to warn them, but he doesn't have one with him. His fifth plan, the one he decides to go with, was to fly up and cut the real Pica apart.

As Pica makes his way toward the plateau where King Riku is located, the onlooking Donquixote underlings cheer him on, and various combatants wonder how they can stop him. Seeing Pica moving toward the king, Elizabello II prepares to use his King Punch, but Zoro stops him. After explaining how Pica will simply reform his body, he asks Elizabello to wait two minutes before running to Orlumbus and asking him to throw him.
Some people firing cannons at Pica are crushed by him, prompting Riku to reveal his location and beg Pica to stop. Riku orders Tank Lepanto and Viola to get everyone to safety while he remains where he is to draw Pica's attack. Across the island, Orlumbus asks Zoro if he is sure about his plan despite the dangers, but Zoro insists that there is no time for anything else. As Pica begins to attack Riku, Orlumbus hurls Zoro toward the executive. Zoro coats his swords with Busoshoku Haki and begins a technique, claiming that there is nothing in this world that he cannot cut.
Pica tells Riku that he is not fit to be king if he cannot defeat his enemies, and that he failed to protect his country because he loves peace too much. Riku admits that Pica is correct, but cries that he is proud of the fact that he has remained human and will not take another life in order to survive. Laughing, Pica claims that good people like Riku are killed and forgotten by history, but before his attack can connect, Zoro cuts his stone body in half. Pica moves to the top half of the enormous stone body, but Zoro simply cuts that in two, and continues cutting the statue until Pica is forced to emerge. Pica coats his body in Busoshoku Haki and attempts to attack his opponent while claiming that Zoro can never cut through him. Zoro responds that all he needs is a stronger Haki and cuts Pica down in mid-air. As Pica is defeated, Elizabello uses his King Punch to blast away the rest of Pica's stone body, bemoaning the fact he is merely doing clean up.

Hanging off a ledge, Roronoa Zoro recalls his training with Dracule Mihawk, in which the master swordsman informed him that having chips on the blades of his sword is an affront to his honor and that he could prevent this by hardening his blades with Busoshoku Haki. He also forbade Zoro from drinking until he mastered the technique.
At the King's Plateau, Fujitora asks his men if there are any wounded, but is informed that his Devil Fruit powers kept them all safe as citizens and combatants around the country react to Pica's defeat.
Meanwhile, the SMILE Factory explodes, to the shock of those who can see it. Inside, the dwarves carry tanks of SAD and smash them while proclaiming that they will no longer be taken advantage of. However, Trebol, who is watching, claims that they can still restore the factory and heal Pica because they still have Mansherry.
At the Sunflower Fields, Leo and Mansherry meet up with Kyros, Nico Robin, and Rebecca, with Mansherry offering to heal the heavily wounded Kyros. However, Kyros refuses to let Mansherry do this because he believes there is some limit to her powers and that there are those in the country who need such healing more than he does. As Mansherry looks over Dressrosa for the first time, Kyros notes they can only leave Donquixote Doflamingo's defeat to Monkey D. Luffy and Trafalgar D. Water Law.
Below the palace, Koala contacts Sabo and asks him where he is, prompting Sabo to admit he is running a little late because it took some time to free all the prisoners in the Colosseum before stating he is on his way.
Back at the King's Plateau, Usopp tearfully pulls Zoro up while Kin'emon congratulates him for defeating Pica, but Zoro tells them it is not over yet because the Birdcage is still present, which means Doflamingo is still alive. When the citizens note that Viola told them Doflamingo's main forces only have three members left, Viola corrects them and reveals there are only two left now because another battle has just been decided.
On the first floor of the palace, Luffy stands over the defeated Bellamy and recalls how their fight ended. Bellamy had defended his decision to attack Luffy at the cost of his life by stating that Doflamingo might remember him this way before punching Luffy into a wall. However, Luffy had pointed out that Doflamingo only wanted Bellamy to be pitted against him and die from the beginning, which Bellamy admitted was likely correct before claiming it is his dying wish to fulfill this. Bellamy told Luffy to just stand there and die if he did not want to fight back before leaping toward him, but Luffy steeled himself and punched Bellamy into the ground with a Busoshoku Haki-hardened Gear 2 punch, defeating Bellamy once more.
In the present, Luffy screams Doflamingo's name, prompting Doflamingo to note that he hopes Luffy comes up to the roof and sees Law's corpse.

As Doflamingo calls Luffy to the rooftop, it is shown what happened a few minutes earlier. Trebol used Sticky Launcher to send Law sprawling at the edge of the roof, and he and Doflamingo stood over the severely injured Shichibukai. Trebol expressed his surprise that Law was still alive, mockingly suggesting that he give up. Doflamingo echoed his executive's thoughts, telling Law he pitied how everything he'd done - escaping the White City, meeting Corazon, working for 13 years to depose Doflamingo, and his alliance with Luffy - had been worthless. As he pointed his gun at Law's chest, Doflamingo offered him a deal: a chance to make the rest of Law's short life meaningful by performing the Perennial Youth Operation on him. In exchange, Doflamingo offered to make any wish of Law's come true.
Law appeared to accept at first, but then requested that Doflamingo bring his dead brother Corazon back to life and submit himself to all the citizens of Dressrosa. Law laughed that Doflamingo's life was the pitiful one, saying that the Straw Hats can cause miracles, and raised his middle finger at Doflamingo. Doflamingo shot Law eight times in various places, mocking the word "Corazon" on Law's jacket. He furiously yelled that despite all Law's efforts to imitate Corazon, the legacy of the Heart will end.
Across the island, Tank Lepanto and the crowd of citizens on the King's Plateau decide to climb down to the city in order to assist their former king Riku. Viola confirms to Zoro and Usopp that of the opposing forces, only Doflamingo and Trebol remain standing, but their own forces have also taken a hit.
Meanwhile, Luffy breaks through the palace roof, eager to fight Doflamingo. The Shichibukai taunts him about Bellamy, and blocks a Gear 3 punch with Spider's Web. Luffy leaps over the web and uses Hawk Gatling to attack Doflamingo from above, but Doflamingo uses Break White to surround Luffy in a mass of strings.
Luffy breaks out of Doflamingo's trap but steps on a pool of blood. Looking around, he sees Law lying on the ground. In confusion, Luffy asks Law what has happened, but he remains unresponsive. Doflamingo tells Luffy that Law is dead, shocking the pirate. As the citizens of Dressrosa realize that the Birdcage is shrinking, Doflamingo mocks Law's last words and states that it is time for the game to end. Luffy prepares to fight but faintly hears Law's voice telling him to listen closely.

The citizens of Dressrosa stare in shock as the Birdcage begins to shrink, and run in panic as buildings are sliced by the approaching strings. On the palace roof, Doflamingo tells Luffy that he plans to end his game by withdrawing the Birdcage, saying that it would close and kill everyone on the island in about an hour. The Marines attempt to save citizens in peril, but are helpless to stop the Birdcage from shrinking. As Viola confirms that Law is dead, Usopp and the others on the King's Plateau cheer for Luffy to defeat Doflamingo, and Sabo runs through the chaos. Doflamingo taunts Luffy, saying that just like Law and Bellamy, the pirate's friends would all die before he dies himself. Luffy rushes toward Doflamingo, saying that if he beats the Shichibukai up then the problem will be over. Before Luffy's attack can land, however, Law activates Shambles and switches himself with Luffy, astonishing Doflamingo.
Law says that Doflamingo is going to be the one to die, and Luffy encourages him as he uses Gamma Knife to stab Doflamingo. A shocked Trebol asks Law how he could have used Shambles without having activated a Room. Law replies that he had created a Room too big for them to notice, and maintained it at the cost of his life force. Since Doflamingo missed Law's vitals after shooting him, Law used Shambles to switch himself with a body of one of Doflamingo's minions, and avoided the rest of the shots. After switching back and playing dead, he whispered to Luffy about his plan. Law's attack forces Doflamingo to start to collapse, but Doflamingo is not defeated yet and grabs Law's face. However, Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Jet Stamp to kick Doflamingo and send him crashing to the ground.
Luffy rushes toward Doflamingo again, but Law stops him, saying that Doflamingo is his to finish. Though severely injured, Law activates another Room and struggles over to Doflamingo. He tells Doflamingo that that his attack destroyed all of his internal organs, despite there being no external wound. An enraged Trebol leaps at Law, but is kicked aside by Luffy. Law shouts at Doflamingo that the Shichibukai only considered other people family when it was convenient for him, and when his brother tried to stop Doflamingo from going insane, he was shot to death. Doflamingo expresses his slight regret for the incident, saying he never thought Corazon would point a gun at him. Law reflects that Corazon could never pull the trigger, but even though it will make him just like Doflamingo, he will. He goes on to say Doflamingo should have been the one to die thirteen years ago. Doflamingo retorts by mocking Corazon, but Law cuts him off by striking him with Counter Shock. Law condemns Doflamingo as a monster before succumbing to his own wounds and falling alongside his enemy.
However, Doflamingo stands up, to Trebol's joy and Luffy and Law's shock. Doflamingo reveals that he is using his Devil Fruit to perform first aid to repair his organs, although he admits that he is not healed. Doflamingo prepares to stomp Law to death, but as Law cries out in anger, Luffy stops the attack, and the two pirates face off.

Doflamingo asks Luffy, as to why the pirate prevented him from smashing Law's head in as he tries to stomp on Law again. However, Luffy counters Doflamingo's strike again using Haoshoku Haki, shocking Law and Trebol who had no idea Luffy possessed it as well. Luffy and Doflamingo both use their Haoshoku Haki to try to overwhelm the other, as Trebol remembers a ten-year-old Doflamingo achieving it 30 years ago. He told the former World Noble that he was destined to be a king, and gave Doflamingo a gun as well as the Ito Ito no Mi so that Doflamingo could exact revenge on anyone he wanted dead. Trebol then boasts to Luffy that he will never be a match for his captain, as Doflamingo's fate as a World Noble was what triggered his insanity and rage.
Doflamingo manages to block most of Luffy's kicks with his arm, but Luffy manages to find an opening and kicks Doflamingo in the chest. He then punches Doflamingo twice in the face with Busoshoku Haki-imbued fists before using Gomu Gomu no Eagle Bazooka to finish Doflamingo off. However, Doflamingo evades the attack and kicks Luffy with Athlete Thread, sending him crashing into the edge of the palace roof.
Trebol intercepts Luffy and holds him down using his devil fruit powers so that Doflamingo can finally finish Law off. Luffy gets angry and attempts to punch Trebol, with no effect. Luffy gets confused, saying his Busoshoku Haki should have been able to bypass Trebol's Logia intangibility, but Trebol asks Luffy if he truly is a Logia, saying that Luffy's attacks could not harm him. Law tells Luffy that fighting against Trebol is futile, and insults Trebol, saying he was glad he never sat on the Heart Seat, as would have had to associate himself with buffoons like Trebol. This enrages Trebol, who attacks Law with Beta Betton Launcher, immobilizing the Shichibukai despite Luffy's angry remarks.
Trebol then prepares to teach Law a lesson, and tells Law that he, Vergo, Diamante, and Pica took a young Doflamingo, who managed to escape Mary Geoise alive, under their wing thirty years ago and groomed him to become a powerful king who would show them his dreams. The four of them made sure that anything that caused Doflamingo pain got eliminated, starting with shooting thugs who assaulted him. Once, Doflamingo tripped and fell on a poorly paved street, and the four executives retaliated by burning down the entire town, saying that no one would stand before Doflamingo, the future Pirate King, as he stood on a pile of wreckage and they bowed before him.
Trebol tells Law that the five Donquixote Pirates had always considered themselves family, and he prepares to kill Law by using a lighter to set the mucus binding Law on fire. However, Law retorts, saying that all of Trebol's loyal actions toward Doflamingo were nothing more than Doflamingo manipulating him like a puppet. This enrages Trebol, who leaps at Law, ready to skewer him. Doflamingo warns his executive against going after Law since the latter has activated a small Room around himself, but Trebol ignores his master, saying that Law was still helpless. However, Law says that he would never be able to face his crew if he left Trebol and Doflamingo to Luffy alone, and uses Takt: Sterben to lift up his severed arm and vertically spin his sword straight through Trebol. This causes Trebol to bleed, shocking Luffy.
Meanwhile, on the Flower Field, Leo suddenly stares upward toward the palace roof, and so do the dwarves outside the now-destroyed SMILE Factory, with Flapper saying that his heart suddenly feels lighter. However, Franky, who has regained consciousness, breaks the dwarves out of their state by shouting at them to get away from the Birdcage. Meanwhile, all of Trebol's mucus covering has slipped off, revealing him to be incredibly skinny. However, Trebol spits mucus on his lighter, cursing Law and swearing to take the Shichibukai with him, as a massive explosion occurs.

Luffy and Doflamingo brace against Trebol's explosion as Robin, Kyros, Rebecca, Leo, Mansherry, and Kabu stare at the palace roof in shock. Leo wonders if there is any way they could help Luffy, but both Kyros and Robin reply that they would just be a hindrance, with Robin pointing to how many injuries Law received from fighting Doflamingo. Right at that moment, Luffy escapes from the explosion while carrying an unconscious Law and his severed right arm. Robin yells at Luffy to bring Law down to her, and Luffy gladly complies, throwing Law off the palace roof. Robin is shocked when she sees Law's severed arm, but manages to break Law's fall using Spider Net.
Doflamingo, having evaded the explosion, tells Robin that interfering in their battle while Law was still alive was a mistake and uses Tamaito, but Luffy kicks Doflamingo with Gomu Gomu no Hawk Whip. Doflamingo's string bullets nearly reach Robin's group, when they are deflected at the last second by Cavendish. Cavendish is annoyed to see that Luffy has not defeated Doflamingo yet, but Luffy yells at him to bring everyone on the Flower Field down below. Cavendish argues with him, wanting to assist in the battle against Doflamingo, but Luffy states that he entrusts his friends to Cavendish. This leads Cavendish to believe that Luffy is a fan of his, so he immediately complies with Luffy's request. Meanwhile, Robin's group is huddled around Law, and Leo prepares to stitch Law's arm back on before Mansherry uses her Watering Can to heal Law. However, Rebecca tells them that they need to obey Luffy's command and get down first. Cavendish yells at Bartolomeo, one level below them, to make a staircase using his powers however, the latter is still struck from amazement at Zoro's victory over Pica.
On the palace roof, Doflamingo and Luffy face each other once again, with Doflamingo saying that it would be better for Law to die now instead of continue suffering, but Luffy says that the Warlord can only do that over his dead body. Luffy and Doflamingo then resume battling, both of them still heavily wounded. Luffy manages to hit Doflamingo with a Busoshoku Haki-imbued attack, sending Doflamingo off the roof. However, Doflamingo laughs the attack off, saying it was fast, but it lacked power. Doflamingo then attacks Luffy, sending Luffy flying. Doflamingo then catches up to Luffy and remembers the time Luffy defeated Crocodile two years ago, as he held Luffy's wanted poster and decided to investigate his crew. Doflamingo then remembers how Luffy participated in the war at Marineford and survived, and was impressed that Luffy survived that and made it all the way here. Doflamingo then kicks Luffy into the edge of the palace roof, causing a large amount of the palace wall to fall away.
On the Flower Field, Law regains consciousness and tells Cavendish to leave him there, saying that he has spent thirteen years of his life living to take down Doflamingo, and now that he has done everything he could he is leaving the rest to Luffy. If Luffy wins, Law wants to witness it, but if he loses, Law is prepared to die with him, since he got Luffy into this battle. Robin attempts to dissuade Law, saying Luffy never fought without a personal reason, but Law persists, and Cavendish agrees. However, he decides to stay behind and protect Law, telling Robin and the others to go ahead on Bartolomeo's staircase. Back on the rooftop, Luffy attacks Doflamingo, but he evades the attack and kicks Luffy into the ground, wondering when Luffy is going to defeat him and reminding the Straw Hat about the shrinking Torikago. Doflamingo is confident that within 30 minutes, the weakest Dressrosa citizens will die, and more and more will follow until everyone will go silent. Doflamingo tells Luffy that the Dressrosa citizens will curse him with their last breath, because if Luffy and his friends had never invaded Dressrosa everything would have remained peaceful. Luffy refutes this, saying it had all been a facade. Doflamingo laughs, saying Luffy had a hero complex and that the pirate would never be more than a thorn in his side. However, Luffy states that Doflamingo had hurt his friends and that he would not let the Warlord kill any one of them, activating Gear 4.

The citizens of Dressrosa run from the Torikago, which is not cutting through the rubble of the town but rather pushing it toward the center. Meanwhile, Baby 5 and the Corrida Colosseum gladiators notice the shrinking Torikago and Sai tells the gladiators that are still standing to get the fallen gladiators back on their feet. As Viola, Hack, and Usopp climb down from the King's Plateau, Viola notices that the epicenter of the Birdcage is slowly shifting towards Doflamingo's location, meaning even the King's Plateau, which is at the center of the island, will be torn apart, causing Usopp to get scared and tell them to move quickly.
Meanwhile, Kin'emon and Kanjuro run after Zoro, asking him where they are headed. Zoro tells them that they are going to stop the Torikago, shocking the two samurai. On the Flower Field, Cavendish marvels that the dwarves managed to stitch Law's arm back on and hopes that it will heal properly. Cavendish then tells Law that when he was in the Underground Trading Port, he had realized that if Luffy and Law managed to defeat Doflamingo, the effects would be felt all over the world and the two of them would become the center of the storm, and Law replies that is what they are after.
On the palace rooftop, Luffy begins activating Gear 4, kicking his sandals off. He then covers his left arm in Busoshoku Haki and blows into it, inflating the muscles and causing his arm to assume massive proportions. Luffy continues blowing, resulting in his entire torso becoming incredibly large. Gear 4: Boundman is finally activated, which causes Luffy to constantly bounce around. Doflamingo laughs, expressing his disappointment that Gear 4, which he expected to be an ace up Luffy's sleeve, was nothing more than Luffy using his elasticity to bounce around. Luffy replies that during his two-year training on Rusukaina, this form was necessary to subdue the beasts on it into submission. Doflamingo states that he is still confused as Luffy sinks his fist into his body, which astonishes the Warlord. Luffy then releases his fist as he strikes Doflamingo, the sheer force of which sends Doflamingo flying all the way toward the streets of Dressrosa.
Doflamingo's hard landing destroys several buildings and causes the fleeing Dressrosa citizens to stare in shock at Doflamingo lying on the ground. Doflamingo slowly manages to get up, and a Marine asks him how he got here. Doflamingo testily answers that he would also like to know, and his barely contained rage sends the panicked citizens fleeing, though they quickly realize with a shock that Doflamingo is on one side and the Torikago is on the other. Doflamingo then stares up toward the palace as he sees with a shock that Luffy is using his elasticity to fly down towards him. Suddenly, Luffy disappears from sight, but quickly reappears behind Doflamingo as he dropkicks the Warlord. The citizens stare in shock at Luffy's action and become even more perturbed when they see Luffy bouncing down the street.
Doflamingo flies through several buildings before flying upwards in a rage, trying to understand Luffy's new form. Luffy quickly jumps up and attacks Doflamingo with Gomu Gomu no Culverin, but Doflamingo manages to evade the strike and flies behind Luffy, attacking him with Athlete. However, the kick does not penetrate Luffy's rubber body, even though it is covered in Busoshoku Haki. Luffy then repels Doflamingo as he attacks the Warlord again. However, this time Luffy redirects its path to follow an evading Doflamingo, succeeding in punching Doflamingo in the face.

The citizens on the streets of Dressrosa are shocked as they see Luffy punch Doflamingo up in the air. As Doflamingo is sent crashing into a building down below, one citizen wonders aloud who Luffy is, but another replies that it doesn't matter and cheers Luffy on.
On the Flower Field, Cavendish reacts in shock to Luffy's transformation, and Law expresses mild shock and relief at Luffy's trump card, but then states that Luffy is overusing his Haki.
On the roof of the palace, Jesus Burgess surveys Luffy and Doflamingo's fight and wonders whether he should go after them or continue waiting. However, Koala is spying on him from behind a broken wall, and wonders what Burgess is up to.
Meanwhile, Viola contacts Riku Doldo III while climbing down from the King's Plateau. Riku asks if Luffy's battle against Doflamingo is the only one still going on, which Viola confirms, saying that all the executives had been defeated.
At the SMILE Factory, Franky yells to the dwarves to evacuate immediately, as the Torikago has reached them. As the dwarves run away, they and Franky realize that since the factory is made of Seastone, Doflamingo's Devil Fruit powers cannot cut through it, and the Torikago is instead pushing the SMILE Factory towards them. Suddenly, Franky sees Zoro, Kin'emon, and Kanjuro riding on one of Kanjuro's sparrows. Franky asks Zoro why they are not going toward the center of town, but Zoro tells him and the dwarves that they are going to try to stop the Torikago and buy everyone some time. This causes the dwarves to become awestruck, and Franky ponders Zoro's plan when he suddenly gets an idea.
As he lies in the rubble of a building, Doflamingo tries to comprehend Luffy's new form. Luffy then flies toward Doflamingo, intent on ending the battle before Gear 4's time limit ends. Doflamingo asks Luffy how long he will be able to maintain that form as Luffy aims both his fists at the Warlord. However, Doflamingo creates two thick waves of string from the ground which block Luffy's attack, shocking the Straw Hat. Doflamingo reveals that there existed another level of Devil Fruit ability known as "awakening". Doflamingo then turns several surrounding buildings into string, telling Luffy that some people's Devil Fruit abilities could awaken in rare circumstances and give them the ability to not only manipulate their body, but their surroundings as well. Luffy is shocked at Doflamingo's new display of power, commenting that it was like Doflamingo was not a Paramecia anymore.
Twenty minutes have passed since the Torikago began shrinking, and the citizens continue to run when an old woman trips and falls. Her granddaughter rushes to her and pleads with her to get up before she is cut by the strings, but the old woman says that she has reached her limit and couldn't run anymore. She tells her granddaughter to leave without her, but her granddaughter refuses. Meanwhile, a man cries for help, pleading for the other citizens to help them carry the patients in a hospital to safety. A woman tearfully asks if anyone has seen her missing child, while a man sits in the middle of a road, having decided to not put up a futile fight against the Torikago. Suddenly, Riku activates a Den Den Mushi and broadcasts to the citizens. He reminds the citizens that today's shocking events have not been a dream, and that for ten years they have suffered under Doflamingo's rule. However, he tells the citizens that all the Donquixote Pirates have been defeated save for Doflamingo himself, and Luffy is battling him right now. He reminds the citizens that regardless of whether Luffy wins or loses, the battle will be over in a matter of minutes, and begs his former subjects to keep running and survive, since they still have hope. Riku's words cause the old woman to get up and run as fast as she can, along with several other hopeful citizens.
Doflamingo then states that it is time for everyone to fall, and attacks Luffy using several sheets of string. Luffy, knowing that his time in Gear 4 was nearly up, manages to pull in his head and blast through a sheet of string. He then pulls back his arms, hitting Doflamingo with Gomu Gomu no Leo Bazooka. The force of the attack sends Doflamingo flying all the way into the palace mountain, and the citizens of Dressrosa cheer at Luffy's attack.

The citizens of Dressrosa look on in shock as they see Doflamingo remain stunned on the palace mountain. They then begin to cheer for Luffy, whom they now recognize due to Riku Doldo III's speech. Luffy continues bouncing down the street while responding to the citizens speaking about him. Meanwhile, Viola, Hack, and Usopp reach the streets when they hear the noise. Viola then sees what is going on, and wonders aloud in shock if Luffy actually defeated Doflamingo. Riku looks toward the palace in silence, and on the Flower Field, Cavendish is confident that Doflamingo has been finished. However, Law simply tells him to look at the sky, and everyone in Dressrosa notices with shock that the Birdcage is still up and moving.
Intent on bringing an end to the Birdcage, Luffy flies toward Doflamingo, sinking in his fist to deal a final blow. However, before he can unleash his attack, Gear 4's time limit expires and all the excess air spews out of Luffy's body, sending him crashing into the mountain and landing back on the streets, wheezing and unmoving. Right then, Jesus Burgess leaps down from the palace roof, announcing his plan to kill Luffy and steal the Gomu Gomu no Mi. Cavendish watches in shock as Burgess leaps past him and Law, and Koala hurriedly tries to contact Sabo via Den Den Mushi. Burgess then lands hard on the ground, causing the citizens to become shocked and slowly back away. Suddenly, the palace mountain begins to crack, and the astonished citizens realize that Doflamingo is still conscious. They try to run away from the inevitable conflict between the three powerful pirates, but the Birdcage has shrunken so much that there is nowhere left to run.
Doflamingo smiles as he sees Luffy trembling on the ground, completely out of energy. Suddenly Gatz appears by Luffy and asks if the Straw Hat recognizes him from the Corrida Colosseum. Gatz had realized that Lucy was Luffy, and he asks the Block C winner if there was any way he could help. Luffy tells Gatz that he needs ten minutes, since he loses the use of his Haki for ten minutes after using Gear 4. Luffy knows that if he can avoid Doflamingo for ten minutes, he will be able to recover his Haki and deal a final attack. Doflamingo descends to the street, and Luffy affirms to Gatz that the Shichibukai's reign will come to an end if he is given ten minutes. Gatz then rouses up the Colosseum gladiators who originally went after Luffy's bounty instead of helping him fight the Donquixote Pirates, with Meadows apologizing for their actions. Rolling Logan tells Luffy that they will put their faith in Luffy as long as he does not think less of them if they die. Gatz, carrying Luffy on his shoulder, commanded half of the fighters to protect him while the other gladiators charge into battle against Doflamingo.
However, Burgess intercepts their retreat, shocking Gatz. Burgess then attacks Luffy and Gatz, but he is kicked in the face by Sabo. Luffy then smiles as he sees his brother.

Sabo's kick sends Jesus Burgess crashing into the ground, and Gatz and the other citizens recognize him as the Chief of Staff of the Revolutionary Army. Sabo tells Burgess that Luffy is his brother and asks the Blackbeard Pirate what problem he has with Luffy. This confuses Burgess, who also heard Ace claim to be Luffy's brother, and Sabo reveals that the three of them are brothers. Sabo recalls the Duel at Banaro Island and states that while he won't hold Burgess and his crew responsible for Ace's death, Burgess should know that he will protect Luffy. Burgess angrily rushes toward Sabo, not caring about the two's relationship, but Sabo then lights his finger on fire, and Burgess and Gatz realizes that he was the Lucy that ate the Mera Mera no Mi in the Corrida Colosseum. Sabo then talks to Luffy, telling him that he would have his hands full with Burgess while Doflamingo is still on the loose. Luffy tells him to not worry, knowing that Gatz and the gladiators can buy him enough time, and expresses relief that Sabo ate Ace's Devil Fruit. Burgess then rushes toward Sabo as Gatz carries Luffy away and throws a punch at Sabo, causing a shockwave which destroys the building in front of him. However, Sabo turns himself into flames and appears to the side of Burgess, attacking him with Fire Flame Dragon King. The force of the attack blows Burgess through several buildings, and Sabo leaps after him.
Gatz continues running while carrying Luffy, and Luffy reveals after Gatz's prompting that Sabo took his place during the Colosseum Finals. Gatz states that was against the rules, but is more intent on having Luffy recover so that he can defeat Doflamingo. Suddenly, Gatz looks behind him to see several buildings being uprooted and several gladiators running away as Doflamingo massacres many of them using his awakened Devil Fruit powers. The gladiators continue pressing on, but an enraged Doflamingo states that he doesn't have time to deal with them, yelling at Luffy to show himself so he can give the Straw Hat regret.
The citizens of Dressrosa continue running away from the Birdcage, and they head toward the central street, but they realize with a shock that the central street has become a battle ground as they look with astonishment at Doflamingo's massacre.
Meanwhile, Zoro coats his swords in Busoshoku Haki and clashes against the Birdcage. A shocked Kin'emon and Kanjuro berate Zoro for being reckless, saying that the Birdcage could not be stopped by pushing on it. However, Zoro asks them how they know that and tells them to help him stop it, as he could not succeed on his own. In front of the SMILE Factory, Franky tells the dwarves to push against the Factory. Since the Factory is indestructible, Franky knows that the dwarves pushing on it could stall the Birdcage. Meanwhile, Robin and Viola contact each other about Zoro's plan.
On the New King's Plateau, several Donquixote Pirates stand on it, keeping the citizens away from the plateau which is the only place they have left to go. They shoot at the citizens, stating it was Doflamingo's plan for all the citizens to die. Suddenly, all the Donquixote Pirates are defeated by the Colosseum gladiators who helped Luffy, all of whom are up now due to Mansherry healing them. Kyros tells all of the citizens to climb up the plateau, while Sai tells the other gladiators to come with him if they have the will to fight.
Doflamingo finally loses his patience with Luffy and speeds up the Birdcage, causing Riku and the citizens to cry out in anguish. As Zoro and Franky try to stall the Birdcage, and the gladiators prepare to join in, it is revealed that everyone on the center street will be massacred in three minutes. However, Luffy still needs four minutes to recover his Haki.

There are three minutes until the Birdcage reaches the central street of Dressrosa. The Corrida Colosseum gladiators, worrying that Luffy may not recover his Haki in time, prepare to fight against Doflamingo and bring him down so they can stop the Birdcage. Doflamingo turns toward them and reiterates his original promise, that if they captured Luffy he would free them. Doflamingo then uses his awakened Devil Fruit powers to impale several of them with strings.
Meanwhile, the gladiators accompanying Gatz tell him that the Birdcage will start killing people before Luffy recovers his Haki, but Gatz says that he would not send Luffy out while the pirate was in no condition to fight. Suddenly, Gatz and the gladiators stop in astonishment as they see a giant ROOM appear from the palace plateau, and Law suddenly teleports down, asking when Luffy would regain his Haki. After Gatz tells him, Law tells Gatz to leave the rest of Luffy's protection to him.
In Sebio, Bartolomeo activates a barrier in front of the Birdcage as the Colosseum gladiators who originally helped Luffy push against the barrier to help Zoro slow down the Birdcage. Robin and Leo also help, and the two are talking about the appearance of Teardelions, which are fruits that Mansherry made from her tears. The Teardelions float through the air, and as one citizen sprains his ankle while running from the Birdcage, he is touched by a Teardelion which instantly heals him. Leo reveals that they will give people they touch an increase in their healing speed, and they could help many people that way. He then confirms Robin's prompt that the Colosseum gladiators were healed in this manner. However, Leo says that the Teardelions come with limitations, as the effects bestowed upon the healed will eventually wear off and they will return to their original state. As more and more injured citizens become well enough to run, Mansherry flies on Kabu, continuing to release more tears.
On a ruined building, Hack and Usopp appear before several citizens who are all shocked to see them there. Usopp tells all the citizens who still have strength left to go to the eastern and western streets to help push the Birdcage. He receives some skepticism, but Usopp yells at the citizens to believe in his friends and get moving. Meanwhile, Rebecca looks for Doflamingo, hoping to stop the Birdcage by bringing down the Shichibukai. However, she shockingly sees Viola is already confronting Doflamingo. Viola tells her niece to not even consider going after Doflamingo, as she would be unable to face Kyros and Scarlett if Rebecca was killed. Doflamingo asks Viola what she is doing here, and Viola states that it would be dishonorable for her, as a former member of the Donquixote Pirates, to not do anything against them.
In front of the SMILE Factory, Franky and the dwarves push on the factory with all their strength. Nearby, Zoro, Kin'emon, and Kanjuro push against the Birdcage with Busoshoku Haki-imbued swords. Zoro states that the Birdcage is probably slowing down when suddenly he hears someone walking behind him. The person is none other than Issho, who states that he will help them as he clashes his sword against the Birdcage. More Marines head to help, and the citizens also lend a hand by pushing the SMILE Factory and Bartolomeo's barrier. Suddenly, everyone realizes that the Birdcage has stopped under their combined effort. However, it quickly begins moving again, but everyone gains hope from that moment and continues pressing, as the time until Luffy recovers reaches one minute.

The people of Dressrosa continue pushing the Birdcage as it reaches the King's Plateau and begins breaking it. Riku Doldo III and Tank Lepanto rush over to the SMILE Factory and assist the people in pushing it, and Riku commends everyone for helping save Dressrosa. This gives the people more spirit as they continue pushing.
Elsewhere, Rebecca screams at Viola to stop attacking Doflamingo for fear of her aunt's life. Viola does a roundhouse kick on Doflamingo, but he easily blocks it and states that he would not hesitate to kill Viola despite her once being a Donquixote Pirate. Doflamingo then immobilizes Viola and takes control of Rebecca, ordering her to kill Viola. Rebecca heads toward Viola against her will, both of them imploring Doflamingo to stop.
The citizens continue running from the Birdcage, but it has shrunk so much that there is nowhere left to go. The Colosseum gladiators continue pushing on Bartolomeo's barrier, and Kyros wonders where Rebecca is. Right then, Gatz activates a Den Den Mushi and broadcasts himself across Dressrosa. The citizens become shocked when they hear him and try to find out why he is broadcasting, but Gatz continues, reminding everyone of the star of that day's Corrida Colosseum tournament. Cavendish listens intently, when he suddenly realizes that Law is gone. Gatz then lists the accomplishments of the aforementioned star, and everyone realizes that he is talking about "Lucy". As Rebecca begs Lucy for help, Gatz reveals to everyone that Lucy was Monkey D. Luffy, which shocks them.
Gatz then recalls the Donquixote Pirates' takeover of Dressrosa ten years ago by controlling Riku, and tells everyone that Luffy has promised to knock out Doflamingo in one blow. This causes the citizens to cheer, and Gatz taunts Doflamingo, calling him a false king and telling him that Dressrosa would be his execution ground. Gatz then yells that it will only be ten seconds before Luffy comes back. Meanwhile, Hajrudin succumbs to his injuries and falls as the effects of the Teardelions wear off, followed soon by Dagama and Ideo. Mansherry cries in regret for giving them false hope, but Kabu reassures her that she has saved many lives with her powers.
With Gatz's encouragement, the gladiators who are still standing continue pushing and the citizens cheer on Luffy. Doflamingo finally reaches the end of his patience, however, and stabs Gatz using a sheet of string. The countdown finally reaches zero as Gatz falls, reiterating his trust that Luffy would defeat Doflamingo with one blow. Rebecca draws nearer to Viola, who tells her crying niece that she would not hate her for this and that she did nothing wrong. As Rebecca prepares to deal the blow to Viola, Viola silently apologizes. Suddenly, Law uses ROOM to switch Luffy with Viola. Luffy intercepts Rebecca's sword with his forehead, which is covered in Busoshoku Haki, breaking it as a result. Law then frees Viola as Doflamingo cries out Luffy's name. Gatz then announces to the citizens that Luffy has returned, as they cheer at Luffy's arrival as Luffy and Doflamingo stand off once again.


As Luffy returns, the crowd goes wild. Doflamingo laughs at the theatrical entry and says he's barely standing. But Luffy says that it's the same with Doflamingo. Doflamingo takes the initiative, attacking Luffy with strings. He also sends some to Rebecca, but Law saves her by switching her location with a pile of rubble. Doflamingo realizes Law's presence in the surrounding area, and tells him to sit there and watch.
Doflamingo then turns an entire segment of the town into strings with Ever White, and converts them into a thousand "Flap Thread" string arrows. He attacks Luffy with the arrows. Luffy tries to hold off the attacks with Haki, but it proves too much for him, and some of the arrows pierces him, slamming Luffy into a wall. Doflamingo laughs, asking Luffy if he has truly recovered his Haki.
As the fight continues, Luffy flashes back to his training with Rayleigh, Rayleigh laughs at Luffy barely surviving an attack by a beast, and asks him what happened to the Kong Gun of which Luffy was so proud. Luffy says the beast he fought earlier was even bigger, and his Kong Gun proved ineffective. Rayleigh tells Luffy that Gear 4 wears down his body too much, and that he should come up with a better solution.
Back in the fight, Doflamingo controls the beaten Luffy and makes him walk over to him. He says everyone should have been content being manipulated, and all this slaughter would have been avoided. Luffy snaps upon hearing this, goes into Gear 4, rips apart the strings controlling him, and leaps into the air. Doflamingo is surprised that his strings were easily cut, but soon recovers and mocks Luffy, asking him how long his second use of Gear 4 will last.
Leaping into the air, Doflamingo continues to mock Luffy for challenging him to an air fight. Luffy yells at Doflamingo, telling him that his desire to control and manipulate everything in his palm makes this place suffocating. Doflamingo responds that Luffy should blame that on his blood, and claims that he is different from "commoners", calling them trash. He tries to capture Luffy with Spider Nest, but Luffy blows air into his already inflated Gear 4 muscles. Luffy readies his King Kong Gun, while Doflamingo tries to counter with God Thread, initiating a powerful attack consisting of 16 holy threads. However, Doflamingo's attack proves ineffective against the King Kong Gun, which crushes the threads and Doflamingo along with it.
Doflamingo is struck so severely that the lenses in his sunglasses instantly shatter and he is hammered straight into the ground. The impact force from the King Kong Gun instantly levels the nearby townscape, sending bystanders running in panic. Law stares at the aftermath of Luffy's catastrophic attack and remembers the words of Donquixote Rosinante-that there are those who call the "D" clan "God's natural enemy". Doflamingo's sunglasses fall off with the lens shattered.

After taking Luffy's King Kong Gun, Doflamingo is knocked unconscious and crashes through the ground, landing in the underground trade port. The citizens and fighters stare in shock as an exhausted Luffy releases his Gear 4 state and is blasted away by the air released. However, Law uses Shambles to switch Luffy with a rock, sending an unconscious Luffy crashing into the ground as Viola, Rebecca, and Gatz look in astonishment.
In the Underground Trade Harbor, Doflamingo's broken sunglasses bounce away from his unconscious body. The citizens are still unsure what has happened and demand that Gatz explain. A weakened and wounded Gatz prepares to announce the outcome of the fight even though warned to not over-do himself. Gatz then points out that the Birdcage is disappearing, comparing it with the dissipation of Doflamingo's control over them. Elsewhere Zoro's group, the gladiators' group, and Franky's group give a final push as the Birdcage finally disappears, with the force of the final push causing the SMILE Factory to topple on its side. Gatz tearfully announces that Dressrosa is finally free after a colossal battle between Luffy's allies and the Donquixote Pirates, but due to his wounds and overflowing tears, he occasionally lapses into gibberish, and the citizens shout at him to announce the winner. As Gatz bawls in anticipation, Riku Doldo III remembers Doflamingo arriving at his window ten years ago, and Rebecca remembers Luffy's promise to send Doflamingo flying and free the prisoner gladiators. Finally, Gatz announces that "Lucy" has won and that Dressrosa is now free from the Donquixote Pirates.
Across the island everyone is celebrating and shedding tears of joy. Franky remembers the dwarves saying how lonesome Kyros had been when he was a toy for ten years, being unable to cry to alleviate the pain. A smiling Kyros heads behind a piece of rubble, remembering the effort he and the dwarves had made to dethrone Doflamingo for the past ten years, and finally cries with joy. Although Dressrosa had been reduced to rubble, everyone on it was happy due to the events that had transpired.

Citizens all throughout Dressrosa are seen celebrating Doflamingo's defeat and the Birdcage's collapse.
In another part of town, Sabo stands over a defeated Jesus Burgess. The Blackbeard Pirate attempts to goad the Revolutionary into killing him, but is unsuccessful. As Sabo begins to walk away, Burgess taunts him about Ace's final words before being handed over to the Marines; all the while, Sabo's Den Den Mushi is ringing. The Revolutionaries are in a rush to leave the island before the Marines show up, but are unable to contact Sabo. Burgess reveals that Ace's last request was to withhold the details concerning his death from his little brother. Sabo loses his temper and grabs Burgess by the head, telling him that he's spent every night thinking about how Ace felt when he died. Burgess then attempts to stab Sabo with a combat knife hidden behind his back, scoffing that Sabo must surely feel regret for not being there to save Ace. Sabo angrily replies that he won't have any more regrets before finishing off Burgess with a fiery point-blank attack. Burgess's screams are heard from the blazing inferno as Sabo remarks that while he himself doesn't care, Ace won't forgive him.
Sabo then answers his Den Den Mushi, with Koala on the other line expressing worry over not being able to contact him. Sabo alleviates her fears and asks if she's found the "list". Koala confirms that she has and is instructed by Sabo to call for a ship and then meet up with Hack in the underground trade port. Koala states that she's already at the port and is waiting for Sabo with the others. Anticipating a reply, Koala is irritated when Sabo hangs up instead, venting her frustration on a nearby subordinate.
The Marines scour Dressrosa, eventually finding and arresting all of the defeated Donquixote Officers with the exception of Violet and Baby 5. They are warned to handcuff each of them with Seastone due to most of them being Devil Fruit users (Doflamingo is wrapped in Kairoseki shackles). A Marine asks about their report to headquarters, but Maynard replies that Issho asked them to hold off on it, much to their surprise. On Applenine Island and two other islands near Dressrosa, Maynard broadcasts himself and reveals Dressrosa's current state, which shocks the people on the islands. Maynard then tells another Marine to take a video Den Den Mushi to Issho.
Meanwhile, the citizens of Dressrosa begin cheering for Riku as their king again, but Riku refuses to return to the throne. However, the citizens say that he is their rightful ruler and that they are tired of violence. Riku warns that his family's aversion to violence has made them pushovers, but the citizens do not care, wanting peace despite what could happen to Dressrosa. Elizabello II then throws in his support as someone tells Riku that the leaders of neighboring countries are calling non-stop to find out what is going on, and Riku is touched by everyone's support. Issho and several Marines then approach Riku, and Issho states that it was because of the World Government and Shichibukai system that allowed Doflamingo to take over Dressrosa. He and the Marines then get on their knees and bow to Riku in apology for all the World Government has done to them.
The neighboring islands are still in shock at what has transpired, and after learning all the facts, the news that the Straw Hats and Heart Pirate Alliance took down Doflamingo is broadcast to the rest of the world.

As Fujitora apologizes, King Riku tells him to raise his head, but the Admiral says that it is important for the world to see his actions, as he reveals his reason for not attacking Doflamingo himself early on. Kyros salutes the Tontatta warriors, saying that their mission is completed, and disbanded the army afterward, before telling them to go to the palace to help the king out. King Riku orders Tank Lepanto to shelter the pirates and warriors in the palace, in order to prevent the Marines from having to arrest them.
In Mary Geoise, Sakazuki learns that the false news about Doflamingo leaving the Shichibukai was by the order of the Five Elders. He asks why the whole world had to play fool to Doflamingo's whim, and asks them to never do this again. The Five Elders ignore him, saying that they are not concerned with how people think of the Marines, and that they left this task to CP0 and blaming Sakazuki for Kuzan joining Blackbeard. Suddenly, a Marine bursts in with the report that Straw Hat Luffy and Law have defeated Doflamingo, with Sakazuki and the others shocked and concerned.
Somewhere in the New World, with Joker fallen, a country without weapons is forced to surrender. Soldiers on battlefields rejoices at the end of war, while pirates are angered about the money they have already paid to Joker and their inability to go to Dressrosa while an Admiral remains there. Brokers scream at the lack of SMILE and Devil Fruits to trade, while one of the dealers stabbed Luffy and Law's wanted posters.
Meanwhile, aboard Tsuru's ship, she and Sengoku discuss the pirate crew they have been chasing for years. In a city, Jewelry Bonney reads a newspaper while eating stolen pizza, and praises Luffy and Law for their actions. On a sky island, Urouge is recovering from his wounds when his crew tells him there is a visitor. Capone Bege comments on the news, saying his friends are doing well, and orders his men to retrieve Caesar Clown, as Big Mom's flag is seen behind him.
Kid's alliance eat as they discuss the news. Kid says that since Doflamingo is tied to Kaidou, the Luffy and Law alliance must be after him. As the crews celebrate the news, Killer states that their target is Shanks.
On another island, X Drake tells his crew that his father was killed by Doflamingo, but he doesn't hold a grudge about it anymore. However, his comrades are more concerned about the news, and scramble to tell Kaidou that Doflamingo has been defeated and his supply of "Smiles" has been lost.
At Dressrosa, Sakazuki and Fujitora argue over a Den Den Mushi. Sakazuki angrily tells Fujitora that he should know what it means for him to admit fault, and that he should have reported it before taking action. Fujitora replies if he had done so, it might have been covered up, and recalls a time when he spoke with Smoker. Smoker told the Admiral what happened to him in Arabasta, and that if it hadn't been for the Straw Hat Pirates, Arabasta would have become like Dressrosa, a country ruled by pirates. But while the Marines stole the credit and covered the truth, Smoker wishes he had been able to take action against them.
Aboard a ship, Smoker is in a hospital bed reading the newspaper. Tashigi tearfully acknowledges how Fujitora has avenged what happened to them in Arabasta, and Smoker agrees that even if he were an Admiral, he wouldn't have been able to do the same. The children from Punk Hazard gather around the door, and as Tashigi takes care of them she tells them it'll be a few more days until they reach Vegapunk's lab.
At Dressrosa, Sakazuki admits there were many ways he could have covered this up. Fujitora states that he does not want to be made into a hero for something he did not do, and that the World Government needs to take responsibility for their actions. Sakazuki shouts that it is a matter of credibility and trust, but Fujitora responds that if such meaningless trust is important, it would be better not to have any. Sakazuki was angered and bans Fujitora from any of the Marine's bases unless Fujitora manages to bring back the heads of Luffy and Law. The admiral responds that he was fine by that 'punishment' via a sarcastic comment.

Night falls on Dressrosa, and the Straw Hat Pirates, Law, and Bellamy have gone with Kyros to his house to recuperate.
Sabo arrives at Kyros' house, and Robin goes to wake Luffy, but Sabo says he just wants to see Luffy's face. Sabo reveals that CP0 is heading back for Dressrosa and that Dressrosa would become chaotic again in a few days, so the Straw Hats should leave soon as well. Franky and Zoro was surprised at the fact that Luffy had another brother besides Ace. As Luffy, Usopp, Kyros, Bellamy, and Law recover from their injuries while they are sleeping, Sabo explains how the three of them became brothers.
He recalls the time he first met Dragon, and how he felt trapped by the nobility system on Goa Kingdom. He then recalls his ship being shot down as he flailed in the water, silently screaming for help, when suddenly Dragon grabbed his hand and pulled him out of the water. Dragon then arrived on a Revolutionary Army ship, where he gave the critically wounded Sabo to a doctor.
Eventually, Sabo regained consciousness, but the Revolutionaries realized that he had no memories at all, even of his own name. However, when his family lineage was revealed by Dragon, and a member of Revolutionary suggested returning him to his family on Goa Kingdom, Sabo immediately recoiled and attempted to dissuade them. In the present, Sabo recalls that despite losing all of his memories, he must have still had the gut instinct to stay away from his parents. Sabo then reveals that Ace later 'revealed' everything to him.
Two years earlier, a Revolutionary rushed in, revealing the Whitebeard War had ended and while Emporio Ivankov was not listed among the fatalities, Ace and Whitebeard had been killed. Many of the revolutionaries soon questioned Dragon if Luffy was his son, something Dragon casually confirms as they are shocked. Seeing Ace's picture in the newspaper caused Sabo to regain his memories and start breaking down. Sabo then started bawling to the surprise of everyone in the room as he realized that Ace was his brother. This caused Sabo to enter a fever-induced coma for three days. After he woke up, Koala asked if he regained his memories and if he was going to quit the Revolutionary Army, but Sabo denied this and asked to see Dragon. He later asked Dragon if he could look for the Mera Mera no Mi. Two years later, Sabo entered the Corrida Colosseum and confronted Luffy, who did not recognize him and did not know why he wanted Ace's Devil Fruit. However, Sabo called him his little brother, causing Luffy to recognize him. Luffy leapt back in shock and embraced Sabo while crying as Sabo expressed his relief that Luffy was still alive as well. Luffy bawled that he failed to save Ace and watched him die before him, but Sabo said that he is thankful Luffy did not die in Marineford as well. Sabo asked if it would be okay for him to eat the Mera Mera no Mi, which Luffy gladly affirmed.
In the present, Sabo prepares to head off, and gives a Vivre Card he made of Luffy to Zoro, after taking a part for himself. Sabo then bids farewell to Zoro, Robin, and Franky, saying he is leaving Luffy in their hands. Zoro laughs, remembering how Ace said almost the exact same thing in Arabasta. Hack then contacts Sabo, who reveals he just left the house and that he would be at the harbor soon before hanging up. The sudden hang-up causes Hack to get angry and nearly punch the operator. Sabo then rides away on a flock of birds towards the harbor.

On Dressrosa, Issho rolls a one with his die. He states that this means that he and the Marines will not go after Luffy or Law despite telling Sakazuki earlier that he would. Maynard attempts to argue, saying they had just found the two's location and that if he would keep his word to Sakazuki then now would be the perfect time. However, Issho tells Maynard that it is shameful to argue after the dice has fallen.
At the Royal Palace, the Corrida Colosseum gladiators and other citizens sleep and recover as one citizen wonders where "Lucy" is, wishing he could thank him regardless of who he really is. Meanwhile, Rebecca rushes outside to tell Riku Doldo III that the Straw Hat Pirates and Kyros were no longer in the palace, but Riku says that they were together and would most likely come back to the palace tomorrow. Riku then asks Rebecca if she would be ready to become the princess if he returned to the throne, shocking her.
The next day, the Sunny crew docks at an island after narrowly escaping the Big Mom Pirates. Caesar Clown attempts to berate the others for exploring the island and wants to stay safe on the ship, but Sanji uses his heart as leverage to get him off the ship. Chopper tells Caesar to hurry to the island, as they could still save a girl on the island. Caesar attempts to argue, but is berated again by Chopper. Nami, Brook, and Momonosuke struggle to run on the unstable terrain, and Nami trips and lands on Brook. The three are then confronted by two pirates riding an animal. The man in front, Sheepshead, asks how they got up on the island, when he is suddenly warned about the Eruption Rain coming.
Water spews from a mountain-like object, causing a flood that sweeps the three Straw Hat Pirates away. Nami is forced to save Brook and Momonosuke due to both of them being Devil Fruit users, and takes them to a nearby log. Suddenly, they are attacked by Sheepshead, who turns his hands into sheep's horns. Brook counters his attack, wondering what sort of power Sheepshead has. Sanji then tells Brook to keep up his guard a little more as he kicks Sheepshead with Diable Jambe, defeating him. The girl with Sheepshead reacts in shock at his defeat, and after thwarting an advance by Sanji, tells her other crewmates that Sheepshead has been defeated. One of them argues that they have not found the samurai yet, but the girl tells them to report that the samurai is not here. The floodwater begins to recede as the Sunny crew regroups, and Nami wonders where the girl they were searching for is. As they are talking, a girl with a strange nose peeks from behind a tree. Suddenly, Chopper yells to everyone to come to his location as the Jolly Roger on Sheepshead's belt is focused on.
At the Kid Pirates' base, a massive collision occurs. The three pirate crews there are astonished and wonder if there is an earthquake or if they are being assaulted. The pirates head toward the source and see a massive hole in the ground in the shape of a person. Basil Hawkins remembers hearing about sky islands above them, and Eustass Kid sees in anger that the collision has sunken one of his ships.
A few minutes ago on the Sky Island, Urouge greeted the visitor despite being warned against it. It turned out that the person was searching for a place to die after being defeated, captured, and tortured many times. Urouge stated that he would not stop him if that was what he truly wanted as the man jumped off the island onto the Kid Pirates' base. This man had turned criminal, and despite many torturing and attempted executions, none of them were successful, and no one was capable of killing him, not even himself.
Back in the present, the man gets up, cursing that he was still alive. It is revealed that the man is Kaidou, and he shouts that Doflamingo should get ready, as with the Shichibukai's help he would start the greatest war the world would ever see.

Three days after the battle in Dressrosa, Sengoku and Tsuru arrive on the island. Sengoku contacts Issho and voices his surprise that Luffy is still on Dressrosa, but is told that Straw Hat was severely injured. Sengoku then jokes to Issho about his prostration and his argument with Sakazuki, but Tsuru tells them to be quiet and asks Issho why he is not pursuing Luffy and Law. Issho reveals that he rolled a die to decide, causing Sengoku to erupt in laughter and Tsuru to cry in anger. Issho says that for the past two days, the roll pointed against capturing them, but then gives the die to Tsuru, saying that if she rolled anything but a one, they would go after Luffy and Law.
Suddenly, Mansherry comes to the Marine encampment, asking for a donation. Tsuru and most of the Marines fawn over her, to Maujii's anger. Mansherry reveals that even though the dwarves are only supposed to show themselves to the Royal Family, she wanted to come and heal everyone's wounds.
On a podium in front of the palace plateau, Gatz announces to the citizens that Riku Doldo III would return to the throne after ten years, to the audience's jubilation. Inside the palace, Elizabello II sits with Riku and reflects how the citizens wanted wealth and power but now they just want peace. Riku hopes that he has what it takes to make his kingdom happy before passing on the throne to Rebecca, and a cautious Elizabello wonders if that is a good idea, remembering how strong-willed Scarlett was. Inside the palace, Rebecca has put on a dress looking very much like Scarlett's. An attendant reveals that she heard that Scarlett married the prince of a faraway country and so it was necessary for her to fake her death. Rebecca grimly remembers Riku telling her that they must pass on the lie because Kyros wants it.
Meanwhile, Kin'emon and Kanjuro ride on one of Kanjuro's birds, talking about the rumor about Rebecca's father. The "prince" was from a country of beautiful lakes engulfed by war, but the prince died in that war, leading Scarlett and Rebecca to live in secret in Dressrosa. They then see Mansherry's flower medicine being sold by the Marines, and a long line has formed to get ahold of this miracle cure. Inside a tent, Sengoku watches Mansherry create the flowers by sucking people's blood, asking if Mansherry could take some from him next.
At Kyros' house, Zoro tells Luffy about the rumor, but Luffy reacts with a mix of anger, sadness, rushing, hunger, and sleepiness while eating meat, annoying Zoro. Luffy attempts to shout the truth, but Usopp tells him to go back to sleep. However, Kyros reveals that he was the one who started the rumor, due to few knowing who Rebecca's father was. He says that he was not the kind of person to be in the Royal Family and that the citizens knew that. Luffy cries out in anger, but Kyros says that he sent Rebecca a letter explaining everything and that he dealt with Riku about it too. Luffy struggles to buy it, when Kyros gets a call from Leo and Bartolomeo comes rushing in. After Bartolomeo expresses his sheer happiness at seeing five of the Straw Hats, he reveals that Sengoku and Tsuru have arrived. The Straw Hats react in shock, and Leo tells Kyros that the Marines are on the move.
The die is rolled, and a six comes up. Issho then orders his men to capture the Straw Hats, Law, and all the criminals being housed at the Royal Palace. The Straw Hats, the samurai, and Law make arrangements to leave, but realize they do not have a ship. However, Bartolomeo tells everyone to follow him to the harbor, as allies from the Colosseum are waiting at points along the route, and there would be a ship there. The Straw Hats get ready to go as the Marines rush toward Kyros' house. Bellamy reveals he can stand due to Mansherry's healing and asks Law why he didn't kill him, and Law replies that Luffy said he was a friend. The Straw Hats, Kin'emon, Kanjuro, Law, Bellamy, and Bartolomeo then run out of the house, hoping to not encounter Fujitora. However, Luffy stops, saying he had something to do and promising to catch up with everyone later. Rebecca hears that Luffy and the others were escaping, and says sadly that she did not get to thank him yet. Meanwhile, Issho prepares to hunt Luffy down.

Zoro warned Luffy that they are short on time and that the eastern port will be their rendezvous point as Luffy left, although Bartolomeo said that he was pointing in the wrong direction.
In the present at the Marine camp, Bastille is discussing with his troops about the runaway pirates and decides to call the east unit. However, the unit has been defeated by the Colosseum gladiators, with Abdullah and Jeet trying to pose as Marines. They try tricking Bastille into not sending reinforcements, but fail in the process. Bastille sends his men towards the eastern port, but Cavendish, Sai, Baby 5, Hajrudin, Blue Gilly and Suleiman back up the running Straw Hats, Bartolomeo, Law, and Bellamy go to stop the Marines. The Marines report to Bastille that all of the criminals taking shelter in the palace have come to the east city.
Meanwhile, Luffy screams at the royal palace, telling Rebecca to show herself. Luffy's shouting causes the Marines to notice him and give chase, and Rebecca hears his call and shows herself, despite her attendants telling her not to consort with pirates. Meanwhile, Riku Doldo III asks Tank Lepanto to call Viola and Rebecca. The three would go to town to tell the people the Riku family will become royalty once again, and Tank gladly obliges to his request. Luffy leaps to Rebecca's window, scaring her attendants. Rebecca wants to thank Luffy, but he interrupts her and asks if she is okay with Kyros leaving her forever. Rebecca remembers when Kyros, then Thunder Soldier, gave her the letter and how she acted in shock and confusion because she did not know who he was. Rebecca asks Luffy if he believes that Kyros thinks of her as a burden, but he replies that he doesn't know and only wanted to ask Rebecca if she was okay with it. Rebecca reveals that she was never okay with it and prepares to go with Luffy. The attendants and guards rise up to stop her, and Viola tells Rebecca and Luffy to wait. However, Rebecca asks Viola a favor, and Viola is shocked when she hears it.
Rebecca holds onto Luffy as they jump out of a hole Luffy made in the palace, while a guard tells Riku that Rebecca has been kidnapped by a pirate. A shocked Riku shakes him while asking which pirate did this, and the guard tells him Luffy did this. Panic occurs throughout town and the people believe that Luffy is an evil pirate who kidnapped the princess for a ransom. Gatz is surprised but still refuses to hate Luffy. Vice Admiral Maynard says that that was what happens when you shelter pirates and tells his men to pursue Luffy and rescue Rebecca. The snipers try to shoot him, but they fall down to the ground. After hearing about this Bastille asks if Haoshoku Haki was used, but it was not since the troops are still conscious. Bastille then orders all the Marine squads to go east to Carta. As Luffy and Rebecca race across the rooftops, he tells her that he will leave her on the back side of the hill while leading the troops away, noting that she will be on her own after that and reminding her that if she is caught, she will be taken back to the palace. Rebecca then thanks him. The citizens of Dressrosa take up arms to stop Luffy and rescue Rebecca, feeling betrayed and swearing to never trust pirates again.
In his house, Kyros thinks about what Scarlett would say while packing his belongings, saying he left Rebecca so she could be happy as a member of the Royal Family. He departs but is stopped at the door by a crying Rebecca. Rebecca tells him to stop lying, and Kyros reminds her that he is a murderer. She claims she does not care for her royal status as her family and happiness are much more important. She proudly claims she is the child of Kyros and nobody else, wanting to fulfill her promise. Rebecca embraces Kyros, who also breaks down in tears, asking her if she is really sure about this, but Rebecca has made up her mind and asks him to live together.
Back at the palace, Viola informs her father that Rebecca is leaving, and Viola remembers Rebecca's request: to become princess in her place. Riku responds by laughing and remarking that Rebecca is a lot like Scarlett.
The Straw Hats make it to the east port and take the stairs towards the coast. As Luffy runs toward the harbor, Bartolomeo sees Fujitora coming for them.

Vice Admiral Bastille angrily asks where the reinforcements at the eastern port are, but the Marines say that they cannot because all their weapons and ammunition are gone. Meanwhile, the Tontattas carry away the weapons and laugh. The Marines report that their ships have stuck to each other almost as if they were sewn together, and the Marines wonder in astonishment how steel can be sewn. As the Marines find themselves unable to cut the seams due to not having any knives, Leo is on top of the ship with his needles, standing triumphant with the other dwarves. On the streets, the Marines that were knocked down are still unable to get up, making Bastille angry.
Mansherry asks Maujii if it is all right to keep getting donations from the Marines since the donations will cause them to collapse, but Maujii replies that that was the plan orchestrated by Kyros. The soldiers tell Bastille they heard rumors that the strange occurrences are the work of the fairies, but the Vice Admiral doesn't believe them.
Luffy keeps running to the port while the pirates try to fend off the Marines. Bartolomeo generates a barrier to stop Fujitora, but Sai doubts that it will really stop him.
Elsewhere, Law and Sengoku talk about Rosinante. Sengoku has a flashback of Rosinante telling him about Law and how Law reminded him of Doflamingo as a child. Sengoku warned Rosinante that since the Amber Lead disease is incurable, he must focus more on his current mission to stop Doflamingo. Rosinante affirms this, saying he would not let Dressrosa fall into Doflamingo's hands. In the present, Sengoku tells Law that Rosinante was like a son for him and that he raised him to become a good person. While Rosinante was a firm believer of justice, he lied to Sengoku about the fact that he was going for the Ope Ope no Mi. When he received a report about Rosinante's death, he broke down in tears for the loss of his son. He knew that the reason why he was lied had to be an important one.
Sengoku tells Law that four things were lost that day: the Barrels Pirates, Rosinante's life, the Ope Ope no Mi, and the boy with Amber Lead disease. Law reveals that he was the boy and affirms his determination for Rosinante, claiming he gave him life and heart. Law tells Sengoku that he is a D. and asks him if he knows anything about it. After a brief second of silence, Sengoku claims that Rosinante did not do it because Law had the carrier of the "D", but because he really loved him. He finally claims that Law should remember Rosinante and that he should keep living, something Rosinante would have said as well.
They are suddenly interrupted by the rubble that starts floating towards the sky. The citizens and the pirates look up to the sky to see all the rubble float in the air and realize that Fujitora is doing this to stop the pirates. The rubble moves towards the eastern port while Tsuru tells Bastille to evacuate his men. Riku Doldo III, Viola, Tank Lepanto, Rebecca, Kyros, and the Tontatta panic as Law quickly makes his way towards the eastern port, telling his allies to get ready to set sail. All the pirates run away when Usopp and Bartolomeo see Luffy arriving, telling him to dodge Fujitora. However, Luffy keeps running toward Fujitora and attacks him with Elephant Gun. Luffy claims that he won't run away anymore like he once did and he would face down any admiral or Emperor in his way, as it is what the Pirate King would do.

Luffy barrages Fujitora with attacks, but tells the admiral what attack he is about to perform beforehand. Bartolomeo gets worried about Luffy going all out on an admiral at this time, and Sai wonders if they should provide backup. Zoro appreciates Luffy's intention, but is confused about Luffy's change in fighting style. Fujitora manages to land a blow on Luffy, but Luffy says he will not run away.
As he and Luffy clash again, Fujitora gets angry at Luffy for announcing his attacks because of his blindness, saying he was a Marine Admiral known as a monster and that he would not tolerate being patronized. Fujitora says that if Luffy was doing this just to make him angry, then he had already succeeded, but Luffy replies that since Fujitora could not see him, he wanted to let the admiral know how he would defeat him.
Fujitora unexpectedly laughs at this statement, causing Luffy to get angry and attack him. Fujitora expresses amusement that Luffy was following such illogical principles as he activates a gravity field to press on Luffy, questioning Luffy's principles during battle. He then sends Luffy flying through the cliffs, and Hajrudin grabs Luffy with Cavendish's help. Luffy yells to Hajrudin to put him down, and Zoro prepares to assist in the battle, but Bartolomeo tells him there is no time with all this on their plate.
Usopp is confused about there only being one ship in the harbor, but Orlumbus tells him to look again, and Usopp sees several ships docked in a straight line. Hajrudin runs with the pirates toward the ships as Luffy screams to let him go, but Fujitora grimly reflects that it is too late for Luffy. His floating rubble would sink all their ships, and even if they somehow managed to escape, the Four Emperors are already on the move and they would go after Luffy due to him taking down Joker. Fujitora states that he made himself blind because he had seen things no one should see, and that he might as well kill Luffy himself.
Suddenly, Fujitora hears a mob of citizens running toward the port, shouting at him to give Rebecca back. Fujitora attempts to stop them, saying he would take care of the criminals, but the citizens brushed him off and told him they would go after the pirates themselves. However, none of the citizens are angry as they yell threats at Luffy. Abdullah and Jeet wonder what the citizens want, and as the citizens run, one of them gets confused because they know Rebecca was discovered living with Kyros.
However, the citizens tell him that they already knew that, and they also knew Rebecca's true heritage as well as the truth about the fairies. They stated their true intention to protect the pirates from Fujitora and let them escape as they resumed their false threats. Fujitora begins wondering what Luffy was really like, wishing he was not blind so that he could see the pirate. Fujitora then retreats, prompting Bastille to ask him how long he would keep the rubble up in the air.
At the port, Bartolomeo introduces the Yonta Maria, and the pirates look on in awe at the massive ship before getting on board. On the ship, Hajrudin tells Luffy that he had four mercenary giant friends and together they would reunite the giant tribes and reform the legendary Giant Warrior Pirates. Luffy reacts happily as Usopp becomes awestruck, voicing his desire to go to Elbaf.
Orlumbus then offers his 56-ship fleet, and Leo says that he and the dwarves had gotten permission from the chief to be included by the Straw Hat Pirates, confusing them. Ideo, Blue Gilly, Abdullah, and Jeet, who have banded together, also throw in their support as Suleiman states his intention to join Cavendish on his ship and crew.
Luffy gets confused, saying the pirates could do whatever they wanted, but Orlumbus tells him they reached an agreement in the palace on an order: First would come the Beautiful Pirates led by Cavendish, then the Barto Club led by Bartolomeo, then the Happo Navy led by Sai. After that would come the XXX Gym Martial Arts Alliance represented by Ideo, then the Tontatta army led by Leo, then the fledgling Giant Warrior Pirates led by Hajrudin, and finally the Yonta Maria Grand Fleet led by Orlumbus. In all, 5600 people are at the ready, and Bartolomeo asks Luffy to exchange sake cups so they will be like parent and child. This confuses Luffy, so Bartolomeo asks him if the seven crews can become subordinate crews of the Straw Hat Pirates.

Luffy refuses the crews' offer, saying he did not like alcohol, which shocks all of them. Bartolomeo shouts at him that because of this incident they would be hunted by powerful people, and in order to become the Pirate King he would need a powerful fleet to help him take over the world. However, Zoro tells him to let Luffy be since he did not do those kinds of things and asks if he can drink the alcohol instead, to Bartolomeo's ire. Orlumbus asks Luffy what he did not like about the arrangement, knowing that Luffy would certainly need them one day. Luffy responds that it was too uptight, shocking the crews even more, as Luffy catches the scent of food. Cavendish and Sai get offended and say that Luffy should be honored to have them serving under him, as Ideo decides to force Luffy to drink the sake while he eats, which annoys Usopp greatly. Luffy then shouts that he wanted to be the Pirate King, not a big-shot, confusing the crews as well as Law as the Straw Hat Pirates look on in amusement. Luffy tells the crews that if they were ever in trouble, they would call for the crews to help them. There would be no need for the parent-child system since the Straw Hat Pirates would come to any of the crews' aids and vice versa, bonded by their battle against Doflamingo. Bartolomeo realizes that Luffy's idea of a Pirate King is not an important person, but rather someone who is free, and he begins to cry.
Suddenly, the Yonta Maria comes under cannon fire, but Leo knows that the Marine battleships are incapable of attacking. The leader of the attackers shouts out to bring Luffy out so they could kill him, as he ruined a crucial negotiation they were having with Doflamingo. Orlumbus entrusts his crew to handle the situation. The leader of the attackers reveals they formed a fleet alliance to take him down and resume negotiations with Riku Doldo III, ordering his men to fire. On the Yonta Maria, the seven captains admire Luffy's resolve and decide to drink the sake even if Luffy will not. As the Yonta Maria comes under fire, a member of the Grand Fleet warns the citizens of Dressrosa to flee, but they tell him Fujitora will drop the rubble if they do so. However, the rubble begins dropping on the enemy ships, which Fujitora says is a parting gift to Luffy.
On the Yonta Maria, the seven captains pledge their allegiance to Luffy and drink from their sake cups, shocking Luffy. The crew members then get everything set for the banquet to celebrate the formation of the Straw Hat Grand Fleet. Luffy angrily shouts that he did not get to drink any of the sake, but Sai tells him that that is how it should be since they selfishly pledged allegiance to him, while Luffy would have no obligations toward them. Luffy then races off to eat as the subordinate captains happily talk among themselves.
The Marines watch on in shock as the rubble rains down without hitting any of the Straw Hats' ships, and Fujitora is revealed to be intentionally missing them. Knowing he should not do it, Fujitora shouts his gratitude to the Straw Hats for helping the World Government in Dressrosa. However, Sengoku comes up behind him and reveals he heard that, embarrassing Fujitora. Meanwhile, Rebecca and Kyros watch the fleet escape, and Rebecca wonders if she will ever meet Luffy again. She then grasps Kyros's bare hand, commenting that it feels warm. Kyros affirms this, remembering how he was unable to feel warmth as a toy, and begins crying again. Back on the Yonta Maria, Luffy gives a toast during the banquet, saying it was time to celebrate their victory over the Donquixote Pirates. As the party goes on, it is foreshadowed that the Straw Hat Grand Fleet will be responsible for a pivotal event that will happen in the future.

CP0 has reached the Dressrosa Royal Palace, and an agent reports to their fellow agent Rob Lucci that they could not find the smuggling list but it was clear that things were stolen. Lucci confirms to the agent that it could only be the Revolutionary Army that stole the weapons, and his fellow agent Spandam remarks on how annoying the Revolutionaries were, but Lucci replies that he was just as annoying. Meanwhile, Viola dances before the citizens as the narrator comments that the dark history of Dressrosa has come to an end, and peaceful days are about to return now that Riku is king again. Riku reveals the existences of Gancho and Mansherry to the public, and they are met with cheering as Leo gives blueprints to a human in the hopes of making something. In the palace, Riku notices that the Levely will happen soon and Tank comments that other countries were already preparing. The harmonious day continues on Dressrosa as Rebecca drops by the market and the citizens build statues of Monkey D. Luffy and Usopp. The time has come for the people to live alongside the dwarves.
On a Marine ship out at sea, Fujitora tells Sengoku that he'll be heading off on his own due to failing to capture Luffy and Law. Sengoku tells him that Sakazuki would probably be lenient if Fujitora apologized, but Fujitora tells him that his pride was too strong. Below deck, Tsuru converses with Donquixote Doflamingo in the brig. Doflamingo tells her that Fujitora should have worked with him to eliminate Luffy and Law because he had everyone under control. Tsuru tells him to stop whining because he lost and that scenario would never happen. Tsuru asks him what will happen to the pirates under his control, and Doflamingo gleefully answers that there were many parties set out to control the world, including the mysterious Family of D., and that Mary Geoise should be ready to lose their high positioning. Doflamingo says that there could only be one top power on the seas, and the greatest war in history would soon begin.
Meanwhile, a pirate associated with Kaidou looks out at the four Marine ships containing Doflamingo. He tells his captain Jack that it would be impossible to rescue him and asks him if they should return. However, Jack brushes the question off and tells him that they would do it regardless because of who he was.
Elsewhere, the Straw Hat Pirates react in shock and outrage when they see the Barto Club's ship, the Going Luffy-senpai. Bartolomeo and Gambia admire Luffy's Vivre Card before the entire crew swoons in Luffy's presence. Luffy remembers how Bellamy and the captains of the Straw Hat Grand Fleet each took a piece of the Vivre Card before departing. Law tells Bartolomeo to set sail for Zou, and Usopp and Franky wonder if Sanji and the others are already there. Suddenly, Zoro notices with a shock while reading the newspaper that their bounties have gone up. Bartolomeo beckons the Straw Hats inside so they could see their wanted posters, telling Law, whose poster he had thrown away, that he was now worth 500,000,000. Bartolomeo then presents the framed posters, each of them with updated pictures. Franky gets angry that Usopp now had a bounty over 100,000,000 and he did not, and the Straw Hats notice that Sanji's poster now has a photo of him instead of a sketch. Bartolomeo reveals that the gladiators who took part in the fight against Doflamingo had their bounties increase by 50,000,000 before pointing out something peculiar on Sanji's poster: he is wanted "Only Alive".

As large hailstones rain down on the Going Luffy-senpai, managing to put a hole in the deck, Bartolomeo tells Monkey D. Luffy and the Straw Hat Pirates to go below deck, but Luffy says they will help the Barto Club and Franky questions who their navigator is. However, Bartolomeo reveals that they do not have one due to originally being a land-based gang, outraging Usopp, and Gambia calls his grandmother to ask her what they should do; Gambia's grandmother merely tells them to use the hail to freeze the pieces of gum on the deck and treat their warts, further angering Usopp. With the Straw Hat Pirates cursing the Going Luffy-senpai and wishing it was equipped like the Thousand Sunny, Roronoa Zoro tells Bartolomeo to put up a barrier, but Bartolomeo says that they were told it was a sin to defy nature, prompting an irritated Zoro to wonder how the Barto Club ever got this far in the New World. Despite this, Bartolomeo expresses confidence that they will have nothing to fear on their dangerous journey as long as the Straw Hat Pirates were on their ship.
At Marine Headquarters, Kizaru receives a report that the A O Pirates, who formerly served under the Whitebeard Pirates, have been annihilated by the Shichibukai Edward Weevil. The Marine states that this is the sixteenth Whitebeard crew that was annihilated, and it went the same way as usual by petty arguments turning into rampages. He reports that 600 people died from the attack, and asks Kizaru if it was right for them to ignore Weevil's crimes since he was a Shichibukai. However, Kizaru says that being the son of Whitebeard is a powerful title and there is very little chance of it being valid. However, it was doubtless that he was an incredibly powerful pirate, reminiscent of Whitebeard in his youth.
On an island, Weevil stands before the city he destroyed and the pirates he killed, saying those pirates could never be considered sons of Whitebeard. His mother, Buckin, affirms his statement and tells him that the Whitebeard Pirates were only pretenders; Weevil, as his only blood relative, was his only true son. Buckin announces herself to be the one who stole Whitebeard's heart and whips Weevil in the leg, telling him to pull himself together. Buckin pulls out a picture of Whitebeard, which Weevil initially mistakes for a mirror, and she tells him that since they resembled each other so much that they were certainly related by blood. After forgiving her son, Buckin tells him that their next mission was to hunt down the stragglers of the Whitebeard Pirates, starting with Marco. Buckin tells Weevil that Whitebeard should have left a vast inheritance for him, and as Whitebeard's only biological son he was the true beneficiary. However, Weevil states his desire to get revenge on Blackbeard for killing his father, but Buckin tells him there would be no monetary profit in that. Buckin then receives a newspaper from a News Coo and gasps in shock. She reveals that Luffy brought down Doflamingo, and Marco and the others protected him during the Whitebeard War. Weevil thinks that Luffy might know Marco's location and decides to get it out of him.
One week later, the Going Luffy-senpai sails through a thick fog, and the members of the Barto Club begin to get seasick. The lookout reports to Bartolomeo that he has spotted something that could be a mountain or a monster. The lookout reports that the mass is moving, causing Luffy to get excited and forcing Usopp to restrain him. Law reveals that his Vivre Card was pointing towards the mass, recounting a tale he heard about an island that wards away visitors with fog and ocean currents. The pirates then see Zou and react in shock, getting ready to turn around. However, Law tells them to stay there, as Zou is actually a land resting on the back of a giant elephant. Law says that Log Poses could not lead there since it is moving, and he had never been to the island before, but Sanji's group might have already reached there. Law prepares to disembark and asks Bartolomeo for provisions. Kin'emon and Kanjuro are in awe of the island, and Kanjuro recounts tales he heard of a tribe residing there that hates humans, which Law confirms is the Mink Tribe who has not had any contact with humans for over 1000 years. Luffy is shocked to know that this elephant has been alive for that length of time.

The Going Luffy-senpai docks at one of Zou's legs next to the Thousand Sunny, and Bartolomeo screams in excitement at seeing the Straw Hat Pirates' ship. Bartolomeo begins worshiping it, to Zoro and Usopp's ire, and the Straw Hats, along with Law, Kin'emon, and Kanjuro, board the Sunny. They see no trace of the crew on board, and so prepare to go ashore. Bartolomeo asks if they need anything else as he prepares to leave despite wanting to continue tagging along. The Barto Club then tearfully departs from Zou, promising to serve the Straw Hat Grand Fleet as best they can. However, the Straw Hats ignore them as they look at Kanjuro drawing something, but the Barto Club feels happy regardless. Kanjuro then brings his "Climbing Dragon" out of the ground, although the pirates note that it looks nothing like one. Kanjuro tells everyone to grab the dragon's back as it grabs the elephant's leg, and Usopp is shocked that the dragon cannot fly. As he grabs hold of the dragon, Luffy thanks Bartolomeo, addressing him by name. This causes the Barto Club to celebrate as they depart.
At the Revolutionary Army's headquarters in Baltigo, Dragon is told that rebel armies across the world are winning their fights. Dragon notes the impact Doflamingo's defeat has had on these countries, being surprised that so many countries were using illegal weapons. However, he tells the reporter that the rebels should not lose their will to fight, and they should be mindful of Cipher Pol, which is growing stronger. Koala then reports to Dragon that the weapons they stole from Dressrosa contained traces of a special mineral, which Dragon reveals is Liquor Iron Ore. Koala is surprised, since only a few countries mine it, and knows they could use this information to get close to the manufacturers of these weapons. Koala thanks Dragon for helping them find Luffy and their lost comrades on Dressrosa, and Dragon asks about Robin. Koala reveals that the rumors about her capture on Sabaody were false, and asks Dragon if he will ask about Luffy, but Dragon dodges it by saying Sabo already told him.
Somewhere in the New World sail two ships with the Blackbeard Pirates' Jolly Roger. In one ship, Laffitte takes a call from Jesus Burgess, saying they had stopped by Dressrosa to pick him up but he was nowhere to be found. Shiryu expresses his surprise that Burgess was still alive, and Burgess reveals that he stowed away on a certain ship. He tells Laffitte to tell Blackbeard to bring everyone and attack his current location, as they could get their hands on a large stockpile of weapons, and also to bring Doc Q to treat his injuries. Shiryu yells at Burgess to tell them his location, and Burgess does not know the name of the island, but reveals that the Revolutionary Army headquarters is there.
Meanwhile, in the Buggy District of Karai Bari Island, the members of the Pirate Dispatch Organization celebrate due to their pirate mercenary business skyrocketing now that Doflamingo's business is no more. Buggy shouts at them to pillage and plunder after the party, because since he was a Shichibukai everything they did was legal. Mohji then tells Buggy that Hajrudin has quit their business, but Alvida replies that it does not matter because they have four other giant mercenaries. However, Mohji reveals that all five of them have quit, shocking Buggy. He demands to know their reason for leaving, and Mohji hesitates due to knowing Buggy would not want to hear the answer.
The Straw Hat Pirates continue riding Kanjuro's dragon up Zou's leg, and Usopp complains that his arms are tiring yet there is still no sight of the peak. Luffy then asks Kin'emon and Kanjuro what business they have on Zou, and Kanjuro reveals that they wanted to check on Momonosuke and to see whether their last comrade has landed here: a ninja named Raizo. The Straw Hats and Law react in shock to the news that he is a ninja, when suddenly Robin notices something falling toward them from above.

The Straw Hat Pirates, Law, Kin'emon, and Kanjuro react in shock at the thing falling toward them, which turns out to be a monkey wearing clothing. The monkey makes a chattering sound which Kanjuro believes is from Raizo, although his eyes are closed and he does not see who it really is. On Luffy's command, the Straw Hats and Law lean to the side to avoid the falling monkey. However, Kin'emon and Kanjuro are playing around and cannot see, so the monkey hits them and knocks them off the dragon. The Straw Hats are shocked to see this, and they wonder what exactly had fallen onto them. Luffy says that they need to save the two samurai, when Kin'emon's voice rings out. Kin'emon tells the pirates to go on ahead and he will rejoin them soon, Robin states that at first she saw a man full of blood with knives pierced in him and at some point she saw a monkey. Although Luffy is intent on going back regardless. The Straw Hats tell the dragon to turn around, but when they see how much it is suffering, they are sympathetic towards it and continue upward to put it out of its misery. Suddenly, Franky hears an unfamiliar voice down below shouting that unauthorized entry is not permitted.
Finally, the Straw Hats near the top of the elephant, and they cheer on the dragon, which they have named Ryunosuke. They finally reach the top, and Ryunosuke reverts to a painting much to the sadness of everyone except Zoro and Law. Usopp shouts at them for disregarding Ryunosuke's hard work, but Zoro says that now is not the time to dwell on the past. The Straw Hats then head towards the gates, expressing surprise that an entire civilization dwelled up here while noting that there are no guards at the gate. Luffy has already climbed up one of the guard towers and expresses his awe at the civilization that lies beyond, which had forests, rivers, and towns. Suddenly, Usopp notices something, but is cut off when Luffy jumps off the wall into the civilization. Robin asks Zoro if they should wait for Kin'emon, but Zoro says they should not before walking through the wide-open gate. However, Law notes the damage around it, as though someone busted it open. The Straw Hats also see that the forest contains destruction, although Zoro is firm on pressing forward despite Usopp's objections.
In the forest, a girl spies on the Straw Hats, realizing that Bariete must have been taken out for them to enter unauthorized. Luffy runs with excitement into the town, shouting the names of the Sunny crew. Franky notes that there is no sign of gunpowder or gas to suggest how the destruction happened, and Usopp asks why they can't explore a peaceful island. Suddenly, Usopp hears a noise, and Zoro steps forward to confront the girl rushing toward them. Zoro slashes at the girl, but she dodges him and levitates over him before using her rabbit claws to clash with one of his swords. However, another woman rides in on a beast and tells the girl, named Carrot, to stop. The other person tells Carrot to leave them alone because they need to deal with the intruders at the Whale's Forest. Law confirms that the two creatures are of the Mink Tribe, when Usopp notices in shock that the second Mink is wearing Nami's clothes.

Zoro wonders what kind of weapon Carrot has that shocked him, as Carrot reacts in shock to the report of invaders in the Whale Forest, saying they would anger the Guardians. Franky wonders if the Minks are human or animal, and Usopp yells at the Canine Mink, named Wanda, asking her how she got Nami's clothes. Robin wonders if the Mink Tribe ate their crewmates, causing Usopp to yell at her for her negativity. Carrot then leaps high into the air, shocking Franky and causing Usopp to cower in fear. Wanda asks her what she sees, and Carrot reports that the chaos is happening just outside of Crow City in the Whale Forest. Wanda gets ready to ride there and tells Carrot to climb on her steed Wany. She then shouts at the Straw Hats, giving them directions to get to the Right Belly Forest where they would find the corpses of their friends.
This causes the Straw Hats to panic, and Wanda and Carrot ride away. Carrot asks if they will be all right, knowing they would be in for a shock, but Wanda states that what has happened has happened. She knows that the invader is likely Luffy, and the Guardians will show him no mercy despite him being the Straw Hats' captain. The Straw Hats continue panicking over the alleged death of their crewmates, but Zoro reassures them that Sanji would not let his group die. Robin asks Law if he has any way to contact his crew, and Law denies this, saying he did not expect to see his crew again. However, he realizes that he has Bepo's Vivre Card in his pocket. Usopp asks Law if Bepo is a Mink, which Law affirms, though he says that Bepo left Zou when he was young and has no memories of his homeland. The pirates decide to keep pressing onward into the city, rather than doing what Wanda told them to.
At the Whale Forest, Bepo shouts at a Bull Mink, Roddy, to stop attacking Luffy as he was a friend. However, Roddy says that he is still an intruder as he and Luffy butt heads. Blackback, a Gorilla Mink, wonders why the "Electro" is not affecting Luffy. Jean Bart prepares to use brute force to break up the fight, but Blackback hits him away. The other members of the Heart Pirates panic at the chaos, when suddenly Wanda and Carrot come riding in, throwing a cape at Roddy and bananas at Blackback to pacify them. Luffy is shocked to see Wanda, and she tells him that they do not want to fight; the Guardians will stop attacking if Luffy stops as well. Luffy expresses his confusion about the island's inhabitants, saying that the Guardians had ambushed him. Wanda asks the Guardians to retreat, having to shout at the ones hiding in the shadows, and Luffy is shocked that he had been surrounded. Luffy talks with the Heart Pirates, although his usage of Law's nickname confuses them until he explains it. The Heart Pirates get excited to see their captain again.
As the Straw Hats explore the ruined city, Robin realizes that an invasion occurred recently, as there were still signs of life. Franky thinks the culprit is not entirely human, as large claw marks are on the buildings. There is also a footprint the size of a normal elephant's on the ground, and Law wonders if the destruction occurred due to a falling out between Minks. Robin knows that sometime in the last two weeks, this country fell into ruin, and Luffy receives the same information as he stands outside of the city with Wanda and the Heart Pirates. Wanda reveals that Jack is the one who laid waste to the country, and the ground suddenly begins shaking as the Eruption Rain is about to come. Wanda tells Luffy to get on Wany and she would take him to see his friends. Luffy is relieved that Sanji and the others are still alive, although Wanda does not say a word about it.

Wanda shouts that the Eruption Rain is coming as Zou lifts up its trunk and sprays out water. The Straw Hat Pirates and Law are shocked to see the ball of water coming toward them, and Robin says that they need to get to higher ground. The water then splashes down, flooding the streets. Meanwhile, Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and the monkey that knocked them off the dragon are riding up Zou's leg on a cat Kanjuro drew. Kin'emon questions why Kanjuro chose a cat, and the samurai responds that cats are good at climbing trees. Suddenly, the Eruption Rain overflow pours down Zou's leg, and Kanjuro says that the cat will melt if touched by the water, shocking Kin'emon and the monkey.
At the Whale Forest, Luffy expresses his astonishment at the rain as Wany swims through the flood. Wanda says that the Eruption Rain is not really rain at all, but is seawater that the elephant uses to bathe itself. She reveals that the water would be collected in aqueducts, and Carrot says that fish are also sucked up and blown out, giving them a reliable source of food. Bepo hangs on a branch, telling Luffy that he was stuck in the forest and asks the Straw Hat to tell Law to meet him and the other Heart Pirates. Carrot tells Luffy as she nibbles on him that although Bepo was a native of this island, he was still a pirate and was under the care of Nekomamushi.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hat Pirates manage to get on the roof of a building, although Usopp goes to the highest tower and cries in fear at the flood. Robin and the others deduce that this must be Zou bathing itself and that the inhabitants had adapted the city to it. Usopp puts on his goggles, wanting to find the others and leave the island as soon as possible. Suddenly, he sees Luffy riding alongside Carrot and Wanda, although he thinks Carrot is eating Luffy as she continues nibbling on him, and gets scared. As they ride by the city, Wanda looks at the crosses and remembers Jack torturing someone, threatening to destroy the country if the person does not bring someone else to him. Luffy asks who the destroyer's name was, and Wanda reveals that the destroyer was Jack. However, he had been reported as dead in the newspaper. During Jack's mission to rescue Doflamingo, he managed to sink two of the Marine ships, but was ultimately no match for Fujitora and Sengoku. However, Wanda reveals that the obituary did not confirm Jack's death, and so he may still be alive.
The three get closer to the fortress, and Wanda assures Luffy that she told his crewmates how to go there. Right then, Law uses his powers to teleport the Straw Hats in front of Luffy and the minks. Usopp threatens Wanda, causing her to get exasperated at their lack of understanding. Wanda shows the Straw Hats the Right Belly Fortress and its two gatekeepers, who look at the pirates suspiciously and wonder if they are the invaders. Wanda tells them that Luffy had just gotten lost in the Whale Forest without ringing the Welcome Bell, and orders one of them to announce to everyone that the Straw Hat Pirates have arrived; the mink is shocked to hear the name. Inside the fortress, Nami is sleeping on a large sheep mink before being woken by Chopper, who reveals their crewmates have arrived. Nami and the sheep mink are happy to hear this, and Wanda announces the Straw Hats' arrival to the other minks. The minks cheer and welcome the Straw Hats, to their surprise, and Usopp asks Wanda if they really hate humans. However, Wanda replies that they would judge them on their character, not their species. Chopper and Nami then come racing toward their crewmates and happily embrace them, and Usopp asks if Sanji, Brook, and Momonosuke are all right. However, as Nami embraces Luffy, she starts crying and starts telling him something about Sanji.

On the Thousand Sunny docked at Zunesha's left foot, Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and the monkey give up on climbing up to Zou and decide to try again tomorrow. At the Right Belly Fortress, Zoro happily receives some Monkey Wine, but gets annoyed by all the minks playing with him. He argues with the minks, who claim that they do this habitually. Suddenly a shout rings out, and a happily tearful Brook runs over to his crewmates. Luffy happily greets him, and Brook apologizes for what happened to Sanji, also revealing that Momonosuke was cooped up in his room due to a conflict with the minks, though he says that could be for the best. The Straw Hat Pirates gather around each other, and Luffy asks where Kin'emon was. However, Brook warns him to not mention samurai or Wano Country here, or they may incur the minks' wrath. Before Luffy can ask why, a mink finds Brook and refers to him as "Baron Corpse". Zoro then realizes that when Wanda talked about the bodies of his crewmates, she was referring to Brook, and Wanda confirms this, saying they did it to show affection.
Chopper asks Luffy where Law is, and Luffy says he is in the Whale Forest. Nami asks Luffy and Zoro what they should do about Sanji, but they simply respond (to Nami's frustration) that Sanji had not been captured, and that his "note" did not indicate anything of concern. Franky then interrupts, saying that he and the others that had just arrived were very confused about the situation, and Robin asks Nami to tell everything that happened to her group in the last 11 days. Nami consents and tells about what happened after they encountered the Big Mom Pirates.
The Sunny crew was confronted by the Big Mom Pirates, led by Pekoms, Tamago, and their ally Capone Bege. The news that Bege has allied with Big Mom shocks the Straw Hats. Their target was Caesar Clown, and the Sunny could not outrun them. Brook suggested they use Coup de Burst, but no one knew how to operate it. The Gaon Cannon was suggested, but was also shot down. The Big Mom Pirates fired several cannons, and Brook used Soul Solid to freeze the cannonballs. Chopper then collected them  in Caesar's solidified gas form and threw it upward, where Sanji was waiting. Sanji then used Diable Jambe to kick the cannonballs at the ship, shocking the Big Mom Pirates as a huge explosion occurred. Nami then created a rain cloud to fog up the area, causing the Big Mom Pirates to lose sight of them.
The Straw Hats react in awe at this feat, and Robin asks Nami when they docked on Zou. Nami says that they reached it the day afterwards, 10 days before the present. Robin notes that this happened after the city was destroyed, and Wanda confirms this, but states that if they had not arrived, everyone in Mokomo Dukedom would likely have been wiped out. Franky notes that her injuries look recent, and Wanda prepares to tell them everything about Jack's invasion. Suddenly, a mink hangs from the doorpost and reports that the prince has awakened, which causes the Minks to celebrate. A happy Chopper raced out to check on him, followed by two minks named Miyagi and Tristan. The messenger reports that the prince, Inuarashi, would like to meet the Straw Hat Pirates. Wanda happily obliges and asks the Straw Hats if they would like to come, although Luffy asks who Inuarashi is. Wanda reveals that he is one of the two kings of the Mokomo Dukedom along with Nekomamushi; he is the King of Dawn while Nekomamushi is the King of Dusk. Inuarashi had been in a coma ever since the city was destroyed.
Meanwhile, Law meets up with his crew, who is excited to see him and asks about what happened on Dressrosa. As they walk toward the prince's quarters, Wanda reveals that the invasion started 17 days ago. The minks thought the Welcoming Bell had been rung for the first time in a while, but it was actually the Raid Bell that was ringing. Zunesha howled and began to shake as a giant mammoth entered the city, ordering the minks to hand over Raizo of Wano Country.

Seventeen days ago the minks reacted in shock to a mammoth appearing as the guard monkey rang the Raid Bell, shouting that pirates have broken through the gate and taken out the guards. The minks told the mammoth that they have never heard of Raizo and asked him to leave. Sheepshead mocked the minks as one of them told the mammoth to state his name, which angered the pirate. Sheepshead told them that the mammoth was Jack the Drought, Kaidou's right-hand man and one of three people known as the Calamities. Sheepshead, the Gifters Shinuchi, told the minks to hand over Raizo or forfeit their peaceful existence, but Monjii refused, saying Jack would have to search peacefully. However, Jack responded by swinging his trunk, leveling several buildings. Jack stated that he did not come to talk and once again demanded that Raizo be brought to him. The minks refused yet again, and Jack ordered the Pleasures to lay waste to the country. However, the Pleasures were easily repelled by minks young and old using Electro. Monjii told Jack that every mink was a born warrior and could defend themselves, saying they had powerful warriors and that it would be wiser to talk with the duke. However, Jack refused and sent the Gifters to fight, and the minks were shocked by the Gifters' animal-like traits.
In the present, Usopp is shocked that the attackers were underlings of Kaidou, and Wanda states that she still does not know how they got onto the island. Luffy is excited to hear about a mammoth, causing Usopp to berate him, and Brook tells his crewmates that the event is why they should not mention the samurai. However, Luffy says that he is sad that the ninja Kin'emon mentioned was likely not on the island, shocking and angering his crew. Wanda asks with suspicion if Luffy is privy to something about Wano Country, but Brook denies this as he and the others beat Luffy up. They then reach the duke's sanatorium, and Wanda says they can continue the discussion later.
A ruckus is occurring at the sanatorium, with a mink named Shishilian throwing several minks into a bottomless pit. Wanda rushes to him to see what the problem is, and Shishilian states that he threw some minks into the pit because they were talking about sweet things in his presence. The remaining minks apologize to him as Wanda reveals that she has brought the Straw Hat Pirates, causing Shishilian to immediately bow and thank them for saving the country. Shishilian then opens the doors to where Duke Inuarashi waited on his bed, and Inuarashi greeted and thanked the Straw Hats. Luffy commented that the duke looked very strong, but Inuarashi rebuffed this, saying a defeated person could not receive that honor. However, Wanda argues that they had the upper hand until Jack brought a weapon into Mokomo Dukedom, and Chopper reveals to a confused Luffy that Jack used Caesar's poison gas weapon to destroy the country.

Luffy questions the usage of Caesar's gas weapon as Inuarashi looks at Brook and drools. Brook sees this and gets scared, but Inuarashi promises to wait until the pirate recovers from his injuries, though Brook is not fine with that either. Robin notes that Caesar must produce the weapons, Doflamingo distributes them, and Kaidou receives them. However, Inuarashi changes the subject when he notices Luffy's straw hat, saying that he and Nekomamushi once sailed the seas and met Shanks. Luffy is excited to hear this, but to his shock Inuarashi is asleep. Wanda explains that Inuarashi rules the Mokomo Dukedom during the day while Nekomamushi rules during the night due to the antagonistic relationship between the two. Usopp asks why their relationship is like that, but Wanda does not know, and says that the two used to be inseparable friends. Relations became so unbearable that the two split their working hours; Inuarashi ruled from 6:00 in the morning to 6:00 at night, and Nekomamushi would take over until 6:00 in the morning came again. The Straw Hats notice that Miyagi and Tristan are asleep as well, and Shishilian says that all the minks in the fort are affected by this schedule, with the minks in the Whale Forest taking over everything, including combat duties.
As Shishilian falls asleep, he remembers Jack's invasion 17 days ago. As Jack and the Gifters rampaged, the Musketeer Squad arrived and began a counterattack. One of the Gifters turned his hand into a wolf's head and attacked Wanda, but was stopped by Shishilian, who arrived with the other Inuarashi Musketeers. The Musketeers were then told to fall back as Inuarashi rode in, ordering the Beasts Pirates to stop their attack at once. To the minks' shock, Inuarashi threw down his sword and openly told Jack that the pirate could search the island for Raizo if he ceased attacking. However, Jack refused and swung his trunk at the duke, causing the minks to gasp in fear. However, Inuarashi easily stopped Jack's attack, and the Beasts Pirates were shocked that the minks were putting up a fight, but were confident in their captain because he was worth 1 billion. Jack told Inuarashi that he would only stop attacking once Raizo stood before him and that he loved destruction.
Giving up on reasoning with the pirate, Inuarashi picked up his sword as the Eruption Rain started, which threw the Gifters into chaos. Inuarashi and the Musketeers then attacked the Beasts Pirates, but the battle was short-lived as the clock struck 6:00 and Nekomamushi's roar rang out. Inuarashi then ordered the Musketeers to retreat, and warned Jack that the pirate was not the only obstinate person around. Nekomamushi and the Guardians then rushed forward, with their leader promising to show no mercy to intruders. Nekomamushi flew toward Jack, grabbed him by the trunk, and proceeded to flip him onto his back. Nekomamushi told Jack that if a samurai did step foot on Zou, he would already be digesting in his stomach as Jack reverted to his human form and prepared a counterattack.

During the invasion of the Mokomo Dukedom, Jack turned back into his human form as his underlings cheered him on. Nekomamushi warned the pirate that the Mink Tribe has many accomplished warriors and he should have left when Inuarashi offered. Nekomamushi then told Bepo that he and the Heart Pirates don't have to fight, but Bepo refused because he wanted to protect his home. The Guardians then attacked the Beasts Pirates as Nekomamushi clashed with Jack, and later the Inuarashi Musketeer Squad took over again.
In the present, Wanda reveals that the battle continued for five days and five nights, and they were unable to drive Jack's forces back. The minks eventually got the upper hand, but were never able to suppress Jack himself. Luffy expresses amazement that Kaidou's right hand man was so powerful, but Wanda reveals that Jack was just as unsuccessful at driving the minks back. However, on the fifth day Jack brought out Caesar Clown's poison gas weapon, and its effects were too rapid for the minks to avoid. The gas swallowed up the entire town and half the forest, and Jack and his underlings went around asking for Raizo again while slaughtering the warriors. Jack then crucified Inuarashi, Nekomamushi, and the country's strongest warriors so they will tell him where Raizo is, but they all reminded him that they have no idea and begged him to stop as Jack tortured them.
However, Jack left the island the next day, leaving some subordinates behind, and Inuarashi reveals that after Jack's obituary was published they realized that Jack had left to save Doflamingo. This meant that the Straw Hats who defeated Doflamingo were responsible for saving them. Chopper then reveals that his group arrived at Zou the next day.
The Curly Hat Pirates were astonished when they saw Zou, and decided to go up despite Caesar's protests, forcing him to carry them up with his gas powers. However, their expedition was interrupted when Sheepshead chased Tristan. Although confused as to how she could talk, Nami instantly realized that she was Sheepshead's victim and quickly pulled her away to safety. On Nami's orders, Brook froze the ground, causing Sheepshead's steed to slip. Tristan was scared when she saw Brook and Momonosuke's dragon form, so she broke free of Nami and ran ahead. They then emerge into Kurau City, and look in shock at the carnage there. Suddenly, Pedro calls out to the Curly Hats and begs them to heal Inuarashi and Nekomamushi, as their injuries are fatal and they cannot be allowed to die.

Ten days ago, the Curly Hat Pirates wandered through the gas-covered terrain of Zou. Caesar Clown chuckled with delight at how powerful the gas was, revealing that it was called Koro and that he invented it. This caused Chopper to beat Caesar up, and the scientist cried that he did not fire the weapon, but Chopper said that no one would have suffered if Koro wasn't invented. Caesar attempted to deter them from rescuing the minks, saying that the species was strong and hated humans. The Eruption Rain then occurred, and Sanji, Chopper, and Caesar pulled themselves onto a branch. Suddenly, Sanji heard Nami screaming, and ordered Caesar to clear away the gas as he went to rescue her. As Sanji defeated Sheepshead and the Beasts Pirates retreated, a saddened Caesar used Roko to purge the Koro from the air.
Chopper went to Kurau City and noted that Caesar's solution was working as he called his crewmates over. The Curly Hats saw the fallen Mink warriors and were shocked, but also guessed that there were more, and Sanji wondered if Caesar was right about the Minks being violent. Suddenly, Wanda attacked Nami as she questioned whether the pirates were allied with Jack. Sanji and Brook raced to help Nami, but Nami said she was fine as the poison had weakened Wanda. Nami slammed Wanda into the ground, but the mink suddenly held up a bomb, saying she would blow all of them up. An angered Wanda asked Nami what grudge they held against the Mink Tribe and why they were intent on slaughtering everyone. Suddenly, Tristan came and told Wanda that the Beasts Pirates had retreated and that she had been saved by the Curly Hats. Pedro then revealed that they were not affiliated with Jack and that they had purged the gas from the air. Suddenly, Chopper came and shouted at everyone that the gas would become impossible to treat after 48 hours and ordered the minks to round up everyone who is capable of assisting him. Wanda teared up as she realized that the Straw Hats were going to save them, and Nami told her that not a single mink would be abandoned.
The Curly Hats eventually succeeded in treating all the minks, and the mood progressively improved as more and more people were healed. In the present, Wanda concludes her story as she licks Nami in thanks for her crew's work. Luffy expresses his anger at Jack and says that he would like to beat the pirate up, and Wanda reiterates that she doubts Jack is dead after seeing him fight. Chopper then tells his crew that he is headed to Nekomamushi and the Guardians so he can check up on them, and the Straw Hats and Wanda come along with him. Wanda reveals that she is active at all hours of the day as a Kingsbird, a ruler's aide, and Luffy and Brook get excited about meeting Nekomamushi. They ride out into the night along with Carrot, and Wanda expresses relief that the full moon was covered by clouds.
Zoro asks Wanda what happened to Sanji and Caesar, as they still did not know that part. However, Brook tells him that most of the minks were not told what happened so they wouldn't worry. Brook says that the event happened only two days ago and told his crewmates that it was very possible that Sanji would not be able to return to them. Even though Zou was a Phantom Island that Log Poses did not point to, the Sunny crew made a grave oversight when they escaped from the Big Mom Pirates. However, the Emperor's crew overheard their destination, and one of their members, Pekoms, was a native of the island. And so, the Big Mom Pirates arrived at Zou, as Pekoms and another crew member prepare to go onto the island. Pekoms speaks to his captain over a Den Den Mushi and tells her to leave this to him, because Zou is his homeland.

Pekoms and Capone Bege arrived at Kurau City after disembarking on Zou. To his shock, Pekoms notices that no one is present, and becomes enraged when he realizes that the city is in ruins. He curses the Straw Hats, believing them to be responsible for the carnage.
In the Right Flank Fortress, Wanda and Nami trade clothes as a sign of friendship; Wanda receives Nami's bikini, while Nami receives one of the tribe's national treasure dresses. A love-struck Sanji greets all of the female minks (he dismisses the male minks who try to greet him), before spotting Nami in her dress and rushing towards her. Meanwhile, Chopper, Brook and Caesar (poorly disguised as "Cedar") continue producing medicine for the injured minks; Brook asks where Momonosuke is, and Chopper reveals that he was remaining in his room because it seemed to keep him calm. This placates Brook, who was concerned about the minks seeing Momonosuke in his human form.
Outside the Fortress, Pekoms reunites with his family and friends, crying in happiness that they were all alive. The minks also inform him that they were saved by the Straw Hats. Observing the scene from a balcony, Nami and Sanji note Pekoms' arrival with surprise, and Wanda reveals that he was a mink tribe member once known for his delinquent behavior. Caesar panics at the arrival of the Big Mom Pirates and begs Sanji not to hand him over. Sanji, however, replies that Caesar is useless to them now that Doflamingo has been defeated, and asks what Caesar did to antagonize Big Mom. The scientist reveals that he was commissioned to conduct research that bore no fruit, but he continued to demand and accept payments anyway. An unsympathetic Sanji tells Caesar that he deserved what was coming, but notes the greater predicament that Luffy had already picked a fight with Big Mom. Eventually, Sanji instructs Brook to accompany him, telling everyone else to remain on the balcony.
As the two groups confront each other, Sanji asks what business the Big Mom Pirates have on Zou. Pekoms immediately proceeds to embrace Sanji and thank him for saving his homeland. The mink reveals that, in addition to capturing Caesar, the Big Mom Pirates had received a second order that would spell disaster for the Straw Hat crew. Instead, to demonstrate his gratitude, Pekoms offers to abandon their new mission in exchange for Caesar. A stunned Bege warns Pekoms not put his personal business ahead of their orders, but Pekoms replies that he will personally accept any punishment that Big Mom chooses to mete out. Suddenly, to Sanji's and Brook's shock, Bege shoots Pekoms in the back and declares that he will handle things from now. Then, to their further shock, Bege orders his men to "come out". A small gate opens in the middle of Bege's chest and several armed members of the Fire Tank Pirates rush out, surrounding Sanji and Brook at gunpoint. Bege formally introduces himself to Sanji and Brook as a member of the same generation as their captain, as well as a castle man that ate the Shiro Shiro no Mi. Bege then orders Vito to bring forward the captured Nami and Chopper, who apologize and explain that they were unaware that Bege and Pekoms had brought reinforcements. Bege finally calls out to Caesar, threatening to shoot him with Seastone bullets if he did not come down. After Caesar emerges from the trees, Bege reveals that he in fact had no Seastone bullets, only a Seastone spear, which he uses to stab Caesar. With everyone gathered, Bege instructs the Straw Hats to enter his body castle, and Sanji, frustrated at their lack of options, concedes.
Inside the dining room in Bege's fortress, Sanji is seated at the table while Caesar and the other Straw Hats are chained up on the floor behind him. Bege then materializes at the table opposite from Sanji, and offers Sanji food and wine; an impatient Sanji refuses, demanding that Bege get on with the meeting. As Caesar continues to panic, Bege hands Sanji a personal invitation from Big Mom, requesting his attendance at her upcoming tea party. The main event at the party will be a wedding ceremony, where Sanji, the third son of the Vinsmoke Family, would be wed to Pudding, the 35th daughter of the Charlotte Family.

Nami and Chopper are astonished that Sanji is set to be married, and Bege hands the invitation to Sanji. Sanji's cigarette drops onto the ground and begins to smolder, as he asks why this was happening now; Bege responds that he does not know (or care) about Sanji's family issues. Brook recognizes the Vinsmoke name, saying that it gives him chills. Bege notices that the fire caused by Sanji's cigarette is growing, and quickly stomps it out.
Sanji asks Bege who was behind his engagement, and Bege replies that it was Sanji's family. Nami recalls that, back in Jaya, Sanji stated that he was born in North Blue; Brook responds (with Nami concurring) that this was significant because one must undertake the atypical journey of crossing the Red Line in order to get from North Blue to East Blue. Caesar further reveals that "Charlotte" is the family name of Big Mom, and that if Sanji marries into the Charlotte Family, the entire Straw Hat crew would become de facto underlings of the Big Mom Pirates. Sanji rejects this suggestion on the spot, refusing to either marry a woman he had never met before, or to jeopardize Luffy's dream of becoming Pirate King.
In response, Bege animates the objects within his castle, tying Sanji to his chair with the tablecloth, creating two cannons to point at the Straw Hats, and briefly sinking Nami into the floor. He tells Sanji that he is not offering him a choice, and that no one can escape Big Mom's tea parties when invited. Vito affirms this, describing Big Mom's invitations as a summons orders. Vito then shares something with Sanji, who becomes angry upon hearing it. Bege reminds everyone present of Big Mom's influence as an Emperor, and tells them that the only way to survive in the New World was to obey the Emperor's orders. Sanji requests a pen and paper from Bege, who assumes that he intends to write a note for Luffy.
Sanji gives the note to Nami, Chopper, and Brook, telling them to give it to Luffy and the others. He tells them that he never intended to hide things from them, as he never expected to have to deal with his past again. Despite their protestations, Sanji resolves to sort out his problems alone, and, after sensing a powerful presence outside, he throws his three crewmates out of Bege's fortress. Caesar protests that Sanji did not free him, but soon has bigger problems as Sanji grabs a gun from one of the Fire Tank Pirates and holds the scientist hostage at gunpoint. Sanji tells Bege that he knows the Fire Tank Pirates wouldn't dare harm him because he was being backed by someone powerful - powerful enough to change his bounty condition of capture to "Only Alive", and powerful enough to arrange this wedding. Sanji threatens to shoot Caesar in the head if the Fire Tank Pirates go after the other Straw Hats, and instead agrees to leave Zou with them in order to confront his family. Bege agrees to Sanji's conditions, despite his crew's protests, and reveals that an additional problem has arrived.
Outside, a still-injured Nekomamushi looms behind Bege and asks him what happened to Pekoms. Bege lies that he and Pekoms had been attacked by one of Jack's remaining crew members, while the other Straw Hats yell to Sanji through the doorway on Bege's chest. Sanji, smiling, tells them that this was his problem and that he would return, before Bege transforms his legs into tank treads and races away. Wanda asks the Straw Hats if the minks should pursue Bege, but Brook instructs her not to as Sanji had no intention of returning.
During the commotion, Sanji's note slips out from among Nami's chains, and falls onto the ground. The contents of the note are finally revealed; it simply states that he was going to meet a woman, and that he would return.

In the present, Brook sings a song about going to meet Nekomamushi as he remembers Nekomamushi asking Nami what happened to Sanji and Caesar two days ago. Nami said that Sanji chose to leave, and Nekomamushi understood what she wanted and told Wanda and Carrot to not tell anyone what just happened. In the present, Brook continues singing about Nekomamushi, and Robin asks if Nekomamushi is like Brook describes, but Brook replies that he is singing about how he imagines the ruler. Luffy asks if Sanji was going to get married based on what his note said, and Nami replies that she is not sure, but knows that Sanji promised to be back. Luffy gets excited, thinking that Sanji would bring his bride back with him, meaning their crew would have a new member. However, Brook reveals that the bride is Big Mom's daughter, meaning they would become Big Mom's underlings after Sanji's marriage. Brook says that Sanji was against the idea and wonders if there was no way he could escape it, therefore he cut himself off from the crew in order to prevent them from having to serve under Big Mom, which Luffy says is even worse than being Big Mom's underlings.
Usopp wonders what Sanji's family was like, and Robin vaguely remembers the name Vinsmoke. Nami apologizes for not holding him back before the rest of the crew arrived, but Robin replies that they had no choice in the matter. Chopper, however, wonders if they will never get to see Sanji again, but Zoro expresses apathy for the situation. He says that Sanji never apologized for his actions and reminds his crew that their actions on Dressrosa had angered Kaidou of the Four Emperors, and Kin'emon and the samurai were being targeted by Kaidou as well. They would soon battle Kaidou himself, and Sanji has now become involved with Big Mom, another Emperor. Nami shouts that Sanji had nothing to do with this, and she and Zoro argue. Luffy breaks up their argument by saying they would ask Sanji himself. His crew reminds him that they cannot invade Big Mom's domain without a strategy, and Robin says that as an Emperor, Big Mom was on a completely different level than any of their past opponents. However, Chopper says that Pekoms was left behind, so they could ask him some questions.
The Straw Hats reach the Guardians' residential district, and the Guardians cheer upon seeing them. Roddy and Blackback apologize to Luffy for attacking him earlier, and Pedro, the captain of the Guardians, expresses his thanks and apologizes to Luffy on top of a tree. Pedro leaps down and tells Luffy that the Heart Pirates were waiting for him, but Luffy wants to see Nekomamushi and Pekoms first. Pedro then gets close to Luffy and reveals that Pekoms has just awoken in the building in the back, and that the Guardians would be willing to help find Sanji. Chopper is told by a reindeer mink, whom he is entranced with, that Nekomamushi is inside taking a bath, which shocks him.
Inside, Nekomamushi eats lasagna while taking a bath, and Chopper yells at him that he was not allowed to take baths, as his wounds would reopen, and was supposed to eat light foods and not use his left hand. Nekomamushi replies that he loved freedom as he walks out of the bath, and Chopper yells at him for ignoring his orders. Nekomamushi hugs Robin and Usopp and thanks them for saving his tribe, promising to pay them back one day. He then starts playing with a ball, causing his wounds to reopen. Nekomamushi ends up in bed, which he claims is because he wants to be. He tells Robin to grab a foxtail, playing with it as Chopper gives him his injection, and Usopp realizes Nekomamushi is scared of injections. Nekomamushi claims that he feels better already, but Chopper smacks him and tells him to lie down. Meanwhile, Luffy converses with Pekoms, who curses Bege for shooting him and leaving him behind. Luffy asks him who arranged Sanji's marriage, and he replies that Big Mom and the father of the Vinsmoke Family did. Nami asks what kind of person Sanji's father is, and Pekoms replies that he is an infamous man in the Underworld, revealing that the Vinsmoke Family is a family of killers.

Luffy and Nami are shocked at Pekoms' revelation that the Vinsmoke Family are a family of killers. Pekoms asks them if they have ever heard of Germa 66, which Nami dismisses as a "mythical evil army". This is corrected by Pekoms, who replies that the organization is not only real, but commanded by the Vinsmokes; Sanji's father is the organization's boss. Nami is shocked at this news, but Luffy declares that he does not understand or care; he only wants to know whether or not Sanji would return after getting married. He also states that he does not want to serve under the Big Mom Pirates, and that if Sanji gets married, the Big Mom Pirates will become his underlings instead. This statement causes Pekoms to fall out of bed in shock, and he angrily reminds Luffy that Big Mom is one of the Four Emperors.
As Pekoms gets back in bed, he says that there is no way to refuse Big Mom's Tea Party invitations; if Sanji had done so, Big Mom would have sent him the head of someone he had been involved with; it could have been a member of the Straw Hats, one of the chefs on the Baratie, or even someone from Momoiro Island. This angers Luffy, but Pekoms states that the Four Emperors hold so much power that anything they desired is simply fated to happen. However, assures Luffy that the Straw Hats would not become Big Mom's subordinates as a result of the marriage, as the wedding was only meant to finalize an alliance between the Charlotte Family and the Vinsmoke Family; thus, when Sanji gets married, he will automatically leave the Straw Hats and join the Big Mom Pirates. This angers Luffy even more, who shakes the lion mink and says that Sanji will certainly refuse the marriage. However, Pekoms is extremely skeptical that he could refuse in front of his vicious family and Big Mom, and still keep his life. Luffy asks Pekoms what he is going to do, and he replies that he will go back once his injuries heal and finish business with Bege. Luffy orders Pekoms to bring him along, shocking Nami, and Luffy tells her that he will go alone in order to have a better chance of sneaking into the party.
Despite Pekoms' arguments, Luffy runs off to get Chopper. As he heads outside, he runs past Zoro, and asks his crewmate if he heard everything, which Zoro confirms. Luffy laughs that Zoro is worried about Sanji, which annoys Zoro. Brook, Usopp, Chopper, and Robin then head toward Luffy along with Nekomamushi, who is excited to meet the pirate. Chopper tells him to get back in bed, but Nekomamushi ignores him as he hugs Luffy, causing him to start bleeding again. Law then arrives, wanting to know what the ruckus is. Luffy greets him and asks about his crew, and Law says that he brought all 20 members to greet him. However, Luffy and Law then begin discussing business, causing Law's crew to complain, with Law responding that they did not need to mingle with their allies.
Inside, Law reacts in shock upon finding out Sanji's predicament. Luffy asks him to stay and keep watch on the fight with Kaidou, but Law reminds him that Kaidou himself would likely find them soon, which would increase the damage on Zou. The minks cry in gratitude at Law thinking about their safety, and Nekomamushi starts a party, which infuriates Chopper. As the pirates and minks party throughout the night, Robin, Franky, and Brook keep watch at Zunesha's hip in order to prevent the samurai from arriving, as the minks would likely not be pleased if they discovered their alliance. The next morning, Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and the monkey mink arrive on Zou as the three Straw Hats sleep. The samurai head onto the island, and Kin'emon asks the mink what he knew about Raizo. The mink becomes distressed as he denies knowing anything about Raizo, and in tears, he rushes away in order to report the samurai's presence.

Realizing that Kin'emon and Kanjuro arrived and went past them, Franky, Robin, and Brook quickly run back to the Mokomo Dukedom, fearing that the minks would not take it very well if they met Raizo's comrades since the Beasts Pirates' search for him nearly destroyed the country. They hope to stop the samurai when they suddenly hear the ringing of a bell. In the Mokomo Dukedom, the minks hear Bariete ringing the bell and calling out that samurai have arrived. At the Right Belly Fortress, Inuarashi rides on a crocodile-boar steed and tells everyone who can move to head for the capital. Meanwhile, Kin'emon and Kanjuro walk through the forest and, upon hearing the bell ringing, wonder if they are being welcomed. However, Kin'emon wonders if the minks were the human-hating tribe Law mentioned, and Momonosuke suddenly calls out to them. Momonosuke is glad that Kanjuro is all right, and Kanjuro asks him where Luffy and the others are, but Momonosuke tells them how he spent most of the time in his room.
At the Whale Forest, the other Straw Hats run to intercept the samurai. Nami tells a confused Luffy that the country is in uproar due to the samurai's presence, and Luffy thinks this means another banquet will be held, to her chagrin. Nami says that Nekomamushi is leading an entire army to search for the samurai, and Nekomamushi and the Guardians arrive at Kurau City. Pedro surveys from the top of a building when he sees something that shocks him, and he tells Nekomamushi that it would be best to retreat temporarily. However, Nekomamushi cannot hear him, and when he turns the corner he comes face to face with Inuarashi. As the two approach each other, their subjects attempt to turn them away, and the samurai look on and wonder what is happening. Suddenly, the Straw Hats come racing up to them and knock them behind a piece of rubble. Relieved that they made it just in time, Nami tells the samurai to head back to the Thousand Sunny.
Inuarashi and Nekomamushi begin exchanging insults on each other's severed limbs, with Inuarashi remembering how Jack threatened to cut off his leg if he did not reveal Raizo's location, and Nekomamushi shouted in anger at Jack's cowardice. He began shaking his chains, and the Beasts Pirates shouted to remove the use of his arms, causing Nekomamushi to tell them to use all their spears on him instead of the people. In the present, the argument becomes more heated as the rulers decide to fight to the death, and they clash weapons. Suddenly, Kin'emon shouts at them to stop, which shocks Usopp. The minks recognize Kin'emon as a samurai as he steps out into the open, with Usopp desperately telling him to run. Kanjuro and Momonosuke emerge as the Straw Hats beg them to stop, and Kin'emon announces himself as the retainer of the Kozuki Family of Wano Country and reveals that they were searching for Raizo. Suddenly, all the minks including the two rulers kneel and put their heads down as they reveal that Raizo is safe. The Straw Hats are astonished that the minks knew about Raizo, and Usopp expresses his amazement that the minks could have died to keep their lie to Jack. Nekomamushi asks the Straw Hats to forgive them for keeping it a secret, as they had been friends with the Kozuki Family for a very long time, and would have never given them over even if it meant their demise.

As the damaged Mammoth sails alongside other ships, a recovering Jack asks his men if he looks dead, which they vehemently deny as he rips up a newspaper with his obituary on it.
On Zou, Kin'emon apologizes to the Mink Tribe as he removes his kimono, confirming his position by exposing a tattoo on his back. The minks recognize that Kin'emon bears the crest of the Kozuki Family like Raizo does, and the Straw Hats watch the interaction in surprise, having been under the impression that the minks would be hostile toward the samurai. Nami reveals that she heard that Inuarashi and Nekomamushi have the crests on their backs as well, meaning their bonds ran deeper than she originally thought. Kin'emon expresses his pleasure that the two rulers are alive, and they reciprocate the feeling, but immediately begin quarreling again despite their subjects' attempts to stop them.
Suddenly, Momonosuke cries out for them to stop fighting, wondering how they grew so bitter after being friends and telling them that he would not allow them to squabble, especially if the reason was his father. He says that his father would be saddened to see them like this, and Inuarashi and Nekomamushi lay prostrate before him and apologize. The Straw Hats wonder what Momonosuke meant when talking about his father, as Kin'emon is right there. The minks begin realizing in astonishment what Momonosuke must be if the rulers are bowing before him, and Kin'emon confirms that Momonosuke is indeed a lord. He tells the Straw Hats that he and Momonosuke are not father and son, but rather Momonosuke is the son of Lord Kozuki Oden, the daimyo of Kuri in Wano Country. The minks apologize for not recognizing Momonosuke as Kin'emon reveals that they pretended to be father and son in order to avoid drawing more attention to the young lord.
The Straw Hats react in surprise to Kin'emon's revelation, but Luffy does not care about Momonosuke's position. The two get into a fight, which annoys Kin'emon, but Kanjuro says to leave them be. Momonosuke then takes refuge in Nami's embrace, which enrages Kin'emon, but Nami is fine with it as she deduces that Momonosuke's father must be very wealthy, which annoyed Zoro and Usopp. Meanwhile, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi reluctantly decide to truce in order to avoid agitating Momonosuke, and the minks celebrate as the two grasp hands.
Later, Nekomamushi and Inuarashi take the Straw Hats, Law, and the samurai up the whale-shaped tree where Raizo is. The male pirates begin getting excited at the prospect of meeting a ninja, and imagine Raizo as a stereotypical hooded ninja. They reach a hidden entrance at the back of the whale's tail, and climb down a long set of stairs as they start hearing screams coming from inside. The excited Straw Hats reach the bottom, where they see Raizo chained to a red poneglyph. Raizo has a disproportionately large head and looks nothing like the ninja they thought of, causing them to be shocked and disappointed. Raizo shouts that he saw the heavy wounds on the minks that brought him food and asks why they did not turn him over to the enemy and if the country truly is safe now.
Raizo and the samurai are joyed as they reunite and Raizo is freed of his chains, and Robin notices the Kozuki Family crest on the wall as well as the red poneglyph. Robin wonders why it is red, and Inuarashi replies that it is apparently for a different purpose. He gives Robin permission to read it as the male pirates tell him to perform various ninja arts. Raizo wonders why pirates are obsessing over him, but Franky says that all men are obsessed with ninjas. Raizo shouts at the pirates to stop forcing their imaginations on him, as he does not perform some stereotypical ninja actions and is too ugly to do others. He says that ninjas are not performers, but as the Straw Hats gloomily turn away, he gives in and performs Smoke Release Jutsu, Clone Jutsu, and throws flower shurikens as he strikes a pose, which entrance the Straw Hats.

On top of the whale-shaped tree, Luffy, Usopp, and Chopper surround Raizo in astonishment at his abilities, but the ninja says that he showed his ninja arts accidentally. Raizo, Kin'emon, and Kanjuro begin crying, and Chopper asks them why. They express their sadness at the devastation Zou went through, and Raizo promises to fix everything himself. Nekomamushi then approaches them and says that Robin's translation of the red poneglyph was almost finished. Inside the tree, Nami stares at a piece of paper in shock, noting that the poneglyph's message looks like a map. Inuarashi then reveals that this poneglyph is called a Road Poneglyph, and it is a guide to the end of the Grand Line. The Straw Hats are astonished that this poneglyph can lead them to Laugh Tale, but Inuarashi backtracks, revealing that there are four Road Poneglyphs. He states that each poneglyph does not lead to Laugh Tale, but rather to an island surrounding it. When all four islands are found and linked, the way to Laugh Tale will be shown.
The Straw Hats begin celebrating, and Luffy is excited that he has his first clue to One Piece's location but says that he will rescue Sanji first. Nekomamushi tells him that it would be possible, as Big Mom and Kaidou each possess a Road Poneglyph while the final one is in an unknown location. This scares Nami, Chopper, Usopp, and Brook, but Luffy does not care because he has always intended to defeat the two of the Four Emperors. Nekomamushi says that they do not have to steal the actual poneglyph, but can copy its message onto a gyotaku. Usopp suggests they simply sneak in and make copies, which gets him and Luffy in a fight, and Nekomamushi tells Robin that powerful pirates who are collecting the poneglyph messages will likely go after her because she is the only one who can read them. However, she replies that she has equally powerful crewmates, which they gladly affirm.
Robin asks Nekomamushi how they knew so much about poneglyphs, and the ruler says that Kozuki Oden had an interest in the stones. He then asks Inuarashi and Momonosuke if it was all right to tell them, and Momonosuke gives him permission. Nekomamushi states that the Kozuki Family are master craftsmen who invented the poneglyph 800 years ago, which shocks the Straw Hats. Luffy asks the samurai if they know what is written on the poneglyphs, but they say that it was never passed on from the generation that created them. Instead, the means to write and read the glyphs carved into the poneglyphs was passed on, but that the skill ended at Oden's generation. Brook then realizes that Oden is dead, and the samurai and rulers begin welling up in tears as they reveal that Oden was executed by Kaidou and the shogun of Wano Country. They say that Oden sacrificed himself to save them and that the Beasts Pirates currently occupy Wano Country. Zoro asks why he was executed, and Kin'emon reveals that Kaidou wanted information on them because Oden traveled to Laugh Tale with Gol D. Roger and witnessed a big secret.

After the revelation of the fact that Kozuki Oden was a crew member of the late pirate king Gol D. Roger, it becomes clear to the Straw Hats that Kaidou and the shogun of Wano Country are after Momonosuke and his guardians because they believe that Oden passed down the knowledge of Laugh Tale to the next generation. However, this is not the case as Oden did not wish to pass down the great burden.
Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and Raizo reveal their intentions to take back Wano Country and open the borders of the country. They disclose that they wish to kill Kaidou and the shogun with the minks' help. Furthermore, they go on to acknowledge the power of Luffy and Law and request the Straw Hat Pirates to help them. However, Luffy blatantly refuses, to everyone's surprise. Then he proceeds to ask Momonosuke to speak for himself, as he is the heir to the daimyo and leader of the three samurai, even chastising him for crying. Remembering how Kaidou killed his father and mother, Momonosuke states his desire to take down Kaidou and asks the Straw Hats for help.
Luffy accepts his request and forms an alliance with the minks and the samurai to take down the Emperor Kaidou and the shogun. He promises Momonosuke that he will beat Kaidou for him, but states that he wants to get Sanji back first as his strength can be of great help during the fight. Luffy finally decides to go to Whole Cake Island along with Pekoms in order to get Sanji back. The mink rulers seem worried at the thought of confronting an Emperor, but Luffy immediately reassures them by saying that it will be safe considering the fact that he will not be fighting Big Mom.
Meanwhile, the minks prepare to throw a party to celebrate the truce between Inuarashi and Nekomamushi. Wanda, Pedro, and Carrot reminisce about the days when the two were friends. However, Jack and his crew return to Zou. Jack is greatly disappointed by the fact that he had to return to Zou, as his subordinates could not finish the task. His subordinates suggest ambushing the minks who survived the first attack. Jack quickly dismisses the idea, intending to kill the elephant itself.

Nekomamushi realizes where Luffy's straw hat came from, and he and Inuarashi reveal that they rode aboard Gol D. Roger's ship for a time. Luffy is astonished as the minks reveal that they accompanied Kozuki Oden as his vassals and previously rode aboard the Moby Dick with Whitebeard. Usopp struggles to write this down chronologically as Inuarashi and Nekomamushi say they did not step foot on Laugh Tale but embrace each other as they reminisce about their adventures. Luffy asks the samurai if they were on Whitebeard's ship as well, but they reply that they stayed at Wano Country, revealing that leaving its borders is a crime but Oden did so anyways despite their attempts to stop him.
The samurai and the pirates start talking about Roger and Whitebeard, with Franky and Brook talking about their connections to Roger, but Nami interrupts them. She asks about the connection between the path set by the Log Pose and the four Road Poneglyphs, but is interrupted when she mentions Crocus as the pirates and minks talk about the man. However, Inuarashi hears her and states that one already needs to know the language of the poneglyphs before they reach the end, but says that Nami is already doing a good job as navigator. Nami is congratulated by her crewmates as Usopp attempts to wrap the minks' connection to history around his head. Momonosuke states that he once made acquaintance with Roger, but Usopp knows he is obviously lying due to Roger being executed over 20 years ago.
Nekomamushi states that one day they will tell the story in its entirety, but now they have to plan their courses of action. Nekomamushi reveals that they are gathering samurai to prepare for the war against Kaidou, and they are also searching for Marco because he may help them increase their strength. Luffy recalls Marco's name but not his appearance until Robin helps him and he remembers from two years ago. Franky questions this search, and Inuarashi reveals to the pirates that Marco led the remnants of the Whitebeard Pirates in a battle against Blackbeard a year ago. They suffered an overwhelming defeat and went missing afterwards, but Luffy wants to see them again to thank them for saving him at the Summit War of Marineford. Kin'emon wishes to go back to Wano Country, and Law says that they can enter the country in secret with his submarine. Suddenly, the rest of the minks see Raizo and celebrate, and Raizo thanks them. Luffy is eager to participate in the minks' banquet, but Nami holds him back, saying they had to set sail for Sanji. Nami says that she will come along due to feeling responsible for what happened, and Chopper will come as well in order to treat Pekoms' wounds. Brook tags along as well, and Robin tells Luffy to make a copy of the poneglyph if he finds one. Suddenly, the island starts shaking, and Nekomamushi hears Zunesha crying. Then Luffy hears an unknown voice.

The ground shakes and houses begin to collapse. People run to avoid being crushed as Inuarashi commands everyone to keep away from the buildings and hold tightly to the trees. Nekomamushi realizes that something is wrong with Zunesha. Luffy and Momonosuke are plagued by a voice calling out to them that only they can hear. Luffy doesn't understand why no one else can hear this voice and proceeds to asks the voice who it is as it tells him to hurry.
Jack, who is bombarding Zunesha with cannon fire from the water, orders his men to keep hitting the same spot on the elephant's left front leg. The crew cheers when they see their attacks have an effect, and Jack proclaims that even a regular elephant will stampede at the sight of a lone bee. Jack assumes that due to Zunesha's advanced age, its skin would be much weaker now. Jack calls the elephant an old relic as the cannons keep firing, their objective being to bring the elephant to its knees to allow easier access to its head. At which point they would kill it in what everway they see fit.
Zunesha begs whoever can hear its voice to issue a command. Luffy cries out in frustrated confusion, demanding to know who is telling him this as well as what it means. Nami asks Luffy at whom he is yelling, since no one else can hear any voice. An annoyed Luffy declares that all he can do is hear the voice, for its unknown owner does not listen. Pedro recalls that Roger and Oden said the same things as Luffy when they visited Zou. They could only hear but not converse with a disembodied voice. Momonosuke then has a vision, and sees Jack attacking Zunesha. He quickly tells everyone what he saw as well as their location and numbers. Everyone is surprised by Momonosuke's declaration as well as the fact that Jack survived his skirmish with the Marines. Kin'emon asks how Momonosuke knew this, and the frightened child simply says they came into his head.
Zunesha warns everyone of the danger they would be in if the pain from the attack caused it to fall. Inuarashi orders the country's ships be deployed, with the intent to fight Jack at sea. Momonosuke then realizes that the voice he is hearing is Zunesha's. He begins relaying the story Zunesha tells him. Long ago, Zunesha committed a crime. As punishment, it was not allowed to do anything except walking and could only act when given an order. Zunesha is now asking for an order, an order to fight the attacking enemy. Luffy tells Momonosuke to give the order, saying if he doesn't, they will all end up at the bottom of the sea, telling him to scream as loud as he can. Momonosuke tells Zunesha not to give up, and gives the order to retaliate against Jack. Zunesha slams its leg back in the water, stating it understood, and with a single swing of its trunk, Zunesha annihilates the attacking ships. The ships are knocked to splinters and crash into the sea as Jack and his crew are sent flying.
From his lookout, Bariete observed the fleet's complete annihilation. After a few moments, the mood returns to calm as people try to figure out what happened to the attacking fleet as Momonosuke observes that he can no longer hear the voice. Bariete then relays what he saw through his telescope to the rest of the village. Inuarashi is stunned by the fact that Zunesha possessed a will of its own. With Momonosuke asleep on Robin's lap, Kin'emon takes the opportunity to ask if Oden knew about his son's ability to hear voices. Luffy breaks the stillness by asking why everyone seemed down. Nekomamushi decides they need to figure out how Jack was able to find Zou, otherwise the people could be susceptible to another attack. Luffy gives him some encouragement and points out how great it is to have the elephant on their side. Luffy then declares they are leaving and asks for lots of food.
On an island in the New World, a Den Den Mushi rings. When it is answered, Scratchmen Apoo informs Kaidou that communication with Jack is no longer available.

Chopper and the minks finish bandaging the wounds on Zunesha's front left leg, and Miyagi expresses awe at the techniques Chopper learned from the Sakura Kingdom and Torino Kingdom. Chopper notes that changing the bandages will be very laborious, but the minks are up to the tasks. Miyagi then comments that he had taken Zou for granted due to living there all his life, but was reminded today that he and the minks were being allowed to live on Zunesha and one day this arrangement will end. Since he now knows that Zunesha can communicate, Miyagi states that he wants to ask it where it is going.
At Kurau City, Momonosuke tells Kin'emon that he wants to stay behind on Zou in order to communicate with Zunesha and possibly find out more about the Kozuki Family. Kin'emon understands this, but says that there are some on Wano Country awaiting their return. However, Inuarashi tells him that he would stay behind with Momonosuke in order to keep Zou safe from Kaidou and to avoid having everyone rush into Wano. Kin'emon states that they will split into four teams: Luffy's team rescuing Sanji, Kin'emon's team heading to Wano, Nekomamushi's team searching for Marco, and Momonosuke's and Inuarashi's team staying on Zou. They discuss how the teams would communicate, as the Mink Tribe did not use Den Den Mushis. However, Franky replies that he can make some using wild forest snails if necessary.
On the outskirts of the Whale Forest residential district, Luffy screams in shock when he sees Pekoms' house destroyed. However Pekoms calls out to Luffy from the rubble, with his turtle shell activated. Pekoms complains that he cannot get any alone time as he turns back into his normal form, revealing to Luffy that he ate the Kame Kame no Mi and that his shell is as hard as a diamond. Luffy replies that Chopper will be caring for him on their journey and wraps the mink around his body with a cloth, running off to begin their journey despite Pekoms' protests. Meanwhile, Pedro reports to Nekomamushi, saying that it is dishonorable that no mink, save Pekoms, is included in the Sanji rescue mission. Nekomamushi asks if Pedro wants to go too, which he affirms. However, Shishilian and the Three Inuarashi Musketeers arrive, saying that it was their duty to see to Sanji's rescue. Wanda, Tristan, Blackback, Roddy, and Yomo attempt to tag along as well for various reasons, and several other canine minks want to come along just to chew on Brook. However, Nekomamushi states that he was leaving this to Pedro since he was the only one who can keep Pekoms in line.
Elsewhere, Usopp gives Nami an upgraded Clima-Tact which, upon being squeezed, grows significantly due to Usopp using the Pop Green's growth capabilities. Nami is concerned about its length, but Usopp reveals that this can be altered depending on how hard Nami squeezes the staff. He made sure to include all of Nami's weatherian devices, save for a "magic wand" that he could not wrap his head around. Nami tests its capabilities, scaring the nearby minks, and thanks Usopp for making it. However, as Usopp tries to collect a fee for doing so, Nami turns herself invisible.
At the main gate, the Sanji retrieval team congregates and says their goodbyes to the others on Zou. Pekoms wonders why Pedro is there, to which the latter replies that he was coming as someone familiar with the former's tendencies. Zoro expresses concern for what could happen, but Luffy laughs it off as the people on Zou say their goodbyes, with Zoro promising to round up the samurai on Wano and Franky promising to build something new to fight Kaidou. Kanjuro offers to help with the descent, but is declined as Luffy grabs all his companions and leaps off the elephant, shocking everyone. As they fall, Luffy says he will see everyone else in Wano.
Meanwhile, in Arabasta, Nefertari Vivi tells her father to hurry onto the ship, and someone notices that she is in a very good mood. Vivi states that it has been so long since she went out to sea.

The people of Arabasta cheer on the Nefertari Family as they sail away, and Toto remarks that Vivi was looking enthusiastic. Koza replies that he supposes her pirating tendencies have surfaced again. On the Marine ship next to the royal ship, Hina reports that they have departed Arabasta and she will make sure that the Nefertari Family gets to Mary Geoise safely. Meanwhile, Vivi stands in the crow's nest and feels the ocean breeze as she is told to get down. Igaram is worried about horrifying things that could happen to her up there, but Pell says that she has a lot of experience on a ship. Cobra coughs, and Chaka tells him not to overexert himself; saying that they could head back if he is not up to the journey. Cobra refuses, saying that he wanted to ask the World Government about poneglyphs ever since he met Nico Robin, so he would go to Levely no matter what. He also wants to know what the founder of the Nefertari Family did all those years ago. Vivi jumps onto the deck, causing Igaram to cry out in fear, but Vivi lands easily and goes to her father. She asks him how he is doing, and Cobra wonders how much longer he has left, knowing that Vivi needs to choose a husband. He says that there are many pictures of suitors in the palace, but Vivi says he can throw them out.
At Loguetown, servants welcome Sterry, the newly coronated king of Goa Kingdom, and his wife Sarie Nantokanette to their hotel, which only served royalty traveling to Levely. Nantokanette remarks that she has seen worse and asks her husband what he thinks. Sterry, however, is hardly content, saying it only had a view of Gol D. Roger's execution platform. The servants wish him a nice rest, but he tells them to go away, as he did not desire trash near him. It is revealed that many countries are abuzz because of Levely, a meeting of royalty from over 50 countries on Mary Geoise. They will discuss global affairs and make plans for the future. However, peaceful conversation between the very diverse rulers is often very difficult. In Kano Country in the West Blue, someone reports to the ruler that Chinjao and Sai have not yet returned but the war is over. The ruler replies that it seems they will not make it to Levely in time and that there are many things he wishes for them to say. At Black Drum Kingdom in the South Blue, Wapol makes plans on how to bring Dalton down. At Drum Island, Dalton reacts in shock to Kureha's statement that she will accompany him as his doctor. In Dressrosa, Rebecca asks Viola if she can go to Levely, which the latter agrees to as Mansherry expresses excitement. Elizabello II calls Riku Doldo III, saying that he refused his escort ship and that they can go to Levely together. Doldo comments that everyone is treating this like a vacation, which Elizabello does not argue against. At Ryugu Kingdom, Shirahoshi is scared to go up despite her brothers' pleas, as Manboshi states that they have enough signatures for their petition. Neptune says that they will appear untrusting of humans if Shirahoshi does not go, and Fukaboshi reminds his sister of their mother Otohime's dream.
Somewhere at sea, Luffy gives sailing orders to his crew, but they only barely follow them because they are still recovering from falling off Zou. Nami says to go a little to port, and Carrot is quickly up to the task. Carrot expresses awe that they are floating on the water, and the Sanji retrieval team is bewildered to see her on board. Carrot embraces the Straw Hats, and Pedro asks if they can turn back, but Carrot says Wanda will be angry at her and begs them to let her come along. Carrot shows them the things she packed, although they will only last half a day when the voyage will take several days. She continues expressing awe at the sea as Luffy agrees to allow her on board while eating one of her carrots. Carrot sees this and pounces on him, biting him on the neck. Nami tells Luffy to pat Carrot on the head, which causes the mink to become docile and allow Luffy to have her carrot. Chopper is astounded that Carrot could have killed Luffy, and Luffy says that he is starving and tells someone to make a feast. Nami agrees, but charges each of them 5000. As they argue, Pedro receives a newspaper revealing that the headquarters of the Revolutionary Army was discovered in a state of ruin.

Pedro shows the rest of the Sanji Retrieval Team the newspaper that explains the destruction of Baltigo. Luffy notices Sabo's picture and reveals to the crew that Sabo is his other brother. Nami and Brook are shocked to learn about Sabo and Nami questions Luffy about why are all of his siblings are such dangerous people. Meanwhile, Luffy sees a picture of Dragon as Nami recalls Garp stating Dragon was Luffy's father. Luffy is comically surprised as he realizes this man is his father while Nami asks how he just figured that out. Luffy casually states that his father does not resemble him at all as Carrot is even more surprised at the fact that Dragon is Luffy's father.
Luffy however, is more curious about Sabo's fate. Reading the newspaper reveals that the Marines and the Cipher Pol were intimated by an unidentified individual but by the time they arrived at the scene the Blackbeard Pirates had destroyed the place. Luffy is enraged remembering Blackbeard's actions while Nami is confused why the Blackbeards would do such a thing. Luffy speculates that Sabo's fight with Burgess might have something to do with the attack. The fate of the revolutionaries seems to be at large as there is not much information with respect to what happened to them.
Pedro reassures the crew that Dragon and Sabo might not be harmed as that would have been a big news stating they must be safe, relieving Luffy. Meanwhile, Chopper alerts the crew about a fire due to a stove Luffy forgot to switch off. As the group panics, a storm approaches. Back at Zou, Bariete informed Wanda that Carrot snuck away with the Sanji retrieval team and apologized for getting bribed by Carrot and not informing her about Carrot's departure. Wanda shows no worry, having faith in Luffy and his group. She then asks Inuarashi, who is keeping watch, to rest and says that they can post guards. Inuarashi is concerned about how the Beasts Pirates located Zou and suspects that they had a vivre card that led them to the island. While hoping that they lost the means to track Zou after Jack's fleet sank, Inuarashi is worried that they might return.
Immobilized underwater, Jack is extremely angry and waiting to be rescued. In his hideout, a drunk Kaidou has been informed about Jack's failure to rescue Doflamingo and is shown crying in front of his subordinates, telling them about how his dream for an all devil fruit crew has been destroyed since he cannot acquire any more SMILEs and increase the number of Gifters. Immediately, his emotions swing to anger and he screams about how Law and Luffy don't know who they've messed with. Eustass Kid is shown imprisoned in a cell, beaten and injured.
Back at the Sunny, the storm has passed and Luffy presents his cooking to his group, who finds his food completely inedible. Nami then finds that they lost all of their food supply. Much to their horror, Luffy has wasted all their supplies in one go.
On the way to Whole Cake Island, Sanji is seen with Tamago on Big Mom's ship, who suggests he join Big Mom, like his father wants him, and says Sanji can easily gain Big Mom's favor with his cooking. Sanji declares that he broke all ties with his family and bluntly states that his hands won't cook for people with no respect for their own crew members, referring to the Pekoms incident. He further declares that he trained in hell only for his friends. Finally, Vito comes with a photo of Pudding, which just came from Whole Cake Island. Understanding of Sanji's defiance, Vito decides to show Sanji the photo as a courtesy. Sanji then gazed at the photo and sees that Pudding is beautiful, making him love struck.

On board the Big Mom Pirates' ship, Vito tries to engage Sanji in conversation about a comic strip in the World Economic News Paper, in which the Marine hero Sora battles Germa 66. The comic was intended to propagandize the activities and strength of the Marines, but Vito ended up idolizing the Germa instead. Vito feels honored and excited to meet Sanji, a member of the family which commands the Germa, but Sanji is angered at being associated with the Germa, telling Vito that he has nothing to do with them.
As Sanji returns to his private room, Vito follows him in. Caesar complains about being kept in a cage while Sanji is treated as an honored guest, but Vito tells him that Caesar is just a prisoner while Sanji's upcoming marriage will finalise the Charlotte and Vinsmoke alliance. Sanji insists that he is not going to cooperate with the marriage plans, and kicks Vito out of his room. Gotti, angry at Sanji's disrespect towards Vito, prepares to attack Sanji while Vito tries to calm Gotti down. A woman interrupts Gotti, warning him that if Sanji is harmed in any way, their leader will be punished for it. Gotti apologizes profusely to the woman as she scolds him; as they leave, Sanji notices something familiar about the woman.
A few days later, on board the Thousand Sunny, Luffy's group are starving and overheated. Brook asks Nami to see her panties, but Nami is too weak to beat him up. Luffy and the others attempt to fish, but Chopper complains to Nami that the sun is so hot that the sea is boiling. In spite of the heat, Luffy manages to catch a fish. Chopper looks up the fish in one of Sanji's encyclopedias and discovers that its skin is poisonous; however, before he can warn the others, Luffy eats the skin and begins to suffer from the poison. Afterwards, Nami cooks the fish according to Sanji's recipe, and the others compliment her on how good the fish tastes.
When a Den Den Mushi on board the Sunny starts ringing, Pekoms remarks that they have crossed into Big Mom's territory. He directs the crew to either hide or disguise themselves, but before they can, a ship approaches the Sunny from out of the fog. Pekoms, expecting one of Big Mom's scout ships, fearfully exclaims when he realizes that the ship belongs to Germa 66; the Germa, in turn, announce themselves and confirm that the approaching ship belongs to the Straw Hat Pirates. A hooded man with eyebrows similar to Sanji's looks down upon the crew, who are shocked at his appearance.

The hooded man on the Germa 66 ship asks the Straw Hat Pirates why they have entered Big Mom's territory. On board the Thousand Sunny, the Sanji Retrieval Team hurriedly furls the sails to avoid crashing into Germa's much larger ship. The onlooking Germa 66 soldiers remark to the hooded figure that Sanji was not supposed to be escorted on the Straw Hats' ship, and the hooded man agrees that they must have missed him.
The Sanji Retrieval Team, believing the hooded man to be Sanji, begin cheering and calling out to him; Chopper also begs him to bring some antidote for the poisoned Luffy. However, the man removes his hood and reveals that he is not Sanji, but Vinsmoke Yonji (although he understands their mistake). The Straw Hats realize that he must be Sanji's younger brother, and, as if to confirm their relationship, Yonji immediately becomes lovestruck upon seeing Nami. Despite this, Yonji orders the ship to turn around, but Chopper continues to call him Sanji, annoying him greatly. Chopper begs Yonji for an antidote to Luffy's poison, but Yonji instead challenges the team to plunder the Germa 66 ship for the cure. The Straw Hats are angered that his personality is nothing like Sanji's, and Pedro prepares to attack.
Suddenly, a woman comes up behind Yonji and kicks him off the ship, before jumping off the ship herself and landing aboard the Sunny's deck. The woman, Vinsmoke Reiju, greets the Straw Hats and apologizes for her brother's behavior. Yonji leaps out of the water and expresses anger at his sister for embarrassing him, but Reiju counters that he was shaming himself. Brook notices that Yonji is hovering in midair, and Pekoms reveals that the reason why Big Mom is so keen on an alliance with the Vinsmoke Family is to gain access to Germa 66's advanced technology. Brook expresses confusion at this, revealing his understanding that "Vinsmoke" was the name of a line of royals which once ruled over the entire North Blue with their military might. Nami expresses great shock at their infamy; however, Yonji, overhearing, confirms this and states that their name was once synonymous with evil, which is why they appear as the villains in the Sora comic. Reiju commends Brook for his history knowledge, but corrects him by stating that the Vinsmoke Family is still of noble status despite no longer ruling any land, and that this status is recognized by their right to attend Levely.
Reiju spots the dying Luffy and discerns that he ate an armored stonefish from the Boiling Sea. Chopper becomes upset over his failure to heal Luffy, but Reiju says that Luffy is in luck, as this poison is her favorite delicacy. She then places her mouth over Luffy's and sucks out the poison (much to Brook's envy), and the Straw Hats observe that the rash is being transferred from Luffy to Reiju, until Luffy's skin gets fully cleared. An astonished Chopper asks Reiju if she is all right, to which Reiju responds dismissively that she is the "Poison Pink".
Luffy immediately wakes up and is embraced by the crying Chopper and Carrot, although he has no memory of his ordeal and asks to eat more of the fish skin. Luffy then notices Reiju and mistakes her for Sanji, but is corrected by Chopper and told by Brook that she saved his life. Reiju thanks the Straw Hats for everything they had done for Sanji up to this point, revealing that he left their family at a very young age and that their father had been searching for him ever since. She also reveals that, when Sanji's first bounty poster began circulating, their father sent Marine HQ to apprehend him; however, due to the poor depiction of Sanji, the Marines ended up chasing after Duval instead. Two years later, when the Marines managed to finally capture an accurate picture of Sanji, their father personally raised his bounty and ordered the change of bounty condition to "Only Alive". Nami asks where Sanji is, but Reiju responds that she does not know; Luffy then proceeds to thank Reiju for saving him, but demands that she give Sanji back to them. Yonji tells a smiling Reiju that she has saved an enemy, before asking Pekoms why he was hanging around with the Straw Hats. Pekoms states that he has his own reasons, and that he was not obligated to reveal them to Germa, and Reiju leaps back on board the Germa 66 ship. The two Vinsmokes warn the Straw Hats that both parties should keep quiet over their meeting, to prevent an incident which would jeopardize the wedding. Reiju and Yonji then sail away, with Reiju wishing the Straw Hats luck.
Meanwhile, Aladine surveys the scene from underwater, informing Jinbe that Luffy is indeed on board, and requesting further orders.

The Thousand Sunny is docked at an island in Big Mom's territory, and a guard apologizes to Pekoms for thinking he was an enemy, as Pekoms had lied to him that he had hijacked the Sunny. Pekoms affirms that he has sweets stocked in the Sunny and asks the guards to keep its arrival a secret in order to surprise Big Mom. The guards, swooning at Pekoms' smooth demeanor, easily agree. Meanwhile, Luffy and Chopper gaze in awe at the town before them, which not only has a large variety of people walking around, but is also composed almost entirely of chocolate. On the Sunny, Nami and Carrot excitedly wear their new dresses, and Nami beats up Brook for peeking under her skirt. Pekoms tells them that it takes a day to get to Whole Cake Island from their current location, so he tells them to get groceries before they depart. Carrot notes that a large variety of races are gathered on the island, including minks. Pekoms then explains Big Mom's dream: a utopia where every race can coexist peacefully. He reveals that there are 34 islands surrounding Whole Cake Island ruled by ministers, which are all collectively known as Totto Land. The town they are in is Chocolat Town on Cacao Island, which is ruled by Minister Chocolate and is made entirely out of chocolate. Carrot asks if the chocolate can be eaten, and Pekoms affirms this, but reveals that it is illegal to consume the roofs because they protect residents against the precipitation the island gets. Pekoms tells them to come back quickly and that he will stay on the ship, but asks them to bring him back some chocolate. He then looks for Luffy so he can get into his disguise, but Carrot and Nami reveal he has already gone to explore the town, outraging Pekoms. Nami says to not worry, as they should find him easily, and her assertion is affirmed as a person cries out that someone has eaten a cafe.
In town, an angry policeman confronts the very rotund Luffy and Chopper for eating an entire cafe, but they reply that they had a good reason, which was that it was too good not to eat. The police officer angrily tells them that they are coming to the station with him, and Pedro prepares to free Luffy and Chopper by force despite Brook's pleas. Suddenly, someone comes flying down on a carpet telling the policeman to wait, and he recognizes the person as the proprietor of the cafe. A woman comes down and the policeman shows her what happened to her cafe, but she unexpectedly yells at Luffy and Chopper for not eating the entire building. She puts jam, biscuit, and chocolate in their mouths as she confirms the policeman's realization that they are actually dismantlers that she hired. The policeman warns Luffy and Chopper to put up a notice before they dismantle anything else, and apologizes for the chaos he caused. He then congratulates the owner, Charlotte Pudding, on her upcoming marriage, which makes her very happy. The Sanji Retrieval Team is bewildered by their unexpected savior, when suddenly a wolf mink approaches Pedro, asking what he was doing there. Pedro shuts his mouth, whispering that he was on vacation and telling him not to alert others of his arrival. Nami is surprised that Pedro knows people in this town, and Pedro says he will tell her later.
Later, the Sanji Retrieval Team eats at another cafe, and Luffy thanks Pudding for bailing them out. Pudding, however, is thankful to him for declaring her cafe to be delicious, revealing that it was made from a recipe she created from scratch. Brook cries at Pudding's generous nature as Luffy shares his love of chocolate with her, but Nami says that they cannot stay long. Pudding understands, but asks if they want tea first to wash down the chocolate. As she makes the tea, Pudding asks the Sanji Retrieval Team what their names are, and Luffy tells her who he is despite Nami futilely attempting to cover his mouth, which makes her aghast.
On Whole Cake Island, Big Mom asks how long they have before the Tea Party, and anthropomorphic flowers respond that they have three days. Talking pieces of furniture confirm that Sanji has arrived, and people begin singing as Big Mom asks about the wedding cake and its ingredients. Her subordinates call in from different islands, having acquired ingredients for the cake by murdering the people guarding them. Big Mom and her entourage sing as they celebrate the upcoming ceremony, and Big Mom remarks that she has heard of Luffy's presence in her territory.

Luffy and the Sanji Retrieval Team are shocked to discover that Pudding is not only one of Big Mom's daughters, but the daughter that has been engaged to marry Sanji. Pudding, in turn, is equally shocked that the guests she had invited for tea were Sanji's crewmates. She asks them how they managed to get past Totto Land's tarte inspection, before warning them that they will be killed if Big Mom discovers their presence. However, she remembers that the Straw Hats are also famed pirates, and retrieves a knife to defend herself; Pedro, in turn, threatens Pudding, until Nami defuses the situation.
The group discuss the situation over tea. Pudding reveals that the Charlotte Family is comprised of 129 people (Big Mom, her 43 husbands, 39 daughters and 46 sons), and that Big Mom's children have all been raised to understand that she will arrange their marriages to grow the strength of her crew. However, one of Pudding's sisters left Whole Cake Island to pursue a marriage for love, which attracts Nami's attention.
Chopper proceeds to ask Pudding if she had met Sanji yet. Pudding is flustered by the question and blushes, responding that she had met him once. She remarks on his gentlemanly mannerisms, his reputed strength, and their shared passion for cooking; however, Chopper has to correct her misconception that Sanji's epithet, "Black Leg", meant his legs were black. Luffy responds enthusiastically to Pudding's admiration for Sanji, but when Nami asks Pudding if she has fallen in love with Sanji, she becomes even more flustered and responds that it is irrelevant because Big Mom's commands are mandatory.
When Pedro suggests binding and gagging Pudding to prevent her from revealing their presence in Totto Land, Pudding draws a map for the Sanji Retrieval Team, revealing a secret route through Totto Land that would allow them to arrive onto Whole Cake Island undetected. She reflects that, despite everyone's excitement at the upcoming wedding, and despite her own happiness at finding Sanji so 'wonderful' and compatible, she did not want to stand in the way of his intention to return to the crew. The crew express great shock at the fact that Sanji turned down a woman - Luffy is so moved that he even cries - but Pudding replies that seeing the crew's mutual commitment to Sanji helped her to decide that she did not want to marry someone who would spend the rest of his life regretting the marriage. She arranges to bring Sanji to rendezvous with the retrieval team on the southwestern coast of Whole Cake Island, but warns them that Big Mom will never willingly let Sanji go.
When someone comes knocking on the door, Pudding helps the team sneak out. After purchasing some supplies, they return to the Thousand Sunny, only to find Pekoms missing and a warning to "turn back" scrawled in the bathroom. Unfazed, Luffy declares that things have finally gotten interesting, and that they will continue ahead.
Elsewhere, on Broc Coli Island, Germa 66, led by the first two sons of the Vinsmoke Family, are shown bringing an end to its two-year civil war after four hours. Angry that the Germa has taken everything from him, an opposing soldier attempts to shoot the eldest Vinsmoke son while his back is turned. However, he orders a Germa agent to take the bullet. He then twists the soldier's gun so that it points at the soldier's head, remarking that he has no concern for the soldier's family or the war, and that the war was going to make him late for Sanji's wedding. The Vinsmoke then executes the soldier. Meanwhile, the second Vinsmoke son retrieves the compensation paid by the 'victorious side' to Germa for its assistance in defeating their enemies. The two Vinsmokes then contact an unseen individual via Den Den Mushi and learn that Sanji has already arrived on Whole Cake Island. The elder Vinsmoke comments that he cannot wait to see Sanji again, but is called out as a liar by the other. They promise to arrive on Whole Cake Island on the day before the wedding.
The two Vinsmoke brothers are finally shown standing atop a building and surveying their destruction of the city, as Germa 66 is hailed by the populace it had 'saved'.

After leaving Cacao Island, the Sanji Retrieval Team continues on to Whole Cake Island using the route Pudding gave them. Luffy is worried about the missing Pekoms, but Pedro assures him that Pekoms is tough and looking for him would be very difficult. Nami examines the map Pudding gave them, looking for the best way to get there without being spotted by the enemy. Pedro calls out from the crow's nest, saying that he has spotted an island. Carrot and Chopper get excited about docking on the island, which Nami presumes is made of jam. However, she tells them that they will not be docking. Nami plots the next direction they will take, and Luffy excessively steers that way, much to her chagrin. Nami says that by following the route the map has set out, they can avoid surveillance. She then leaves the navigation to Brook as she goes to prepare food and forbids Luffy from going to the kitchen again. Carrot leaps up to the crow's nest and asks if she can help as a lookout. She sees that part of the faraway ocean is grape-colored, and Pedro reveals that some of the islands have rivers of juice that flow into the oceans. Nami asks him how he knows so much about Totto Land, and Pedro reveals that he has been there once before. Suddenly, the crew is confronted by a giant sea centipede, and they prepare to battle it.
On Whole Cake Island, the citizens hear that Big Mom's illness has reared its head again, and this time, she craves croquembouche. Tamago says that there were croquembouche tourists staying on the island, but a woman reveals that they have already checked out. The people of Totto Land quickly work together to make Big Mom some croquembouche, and they hear that Big Mom is headed for the capital, Sweet City, while leaving a path of destruction in her wake. An anthropomorphic sun attempts to stop her, but she throws it into the ground as she enters Sweet City. Big Mom starts eating anything around her as the citizens evacuate in a panic. As she searches for croquembouche, she devours any anthropomorphic object in her path. Charlotte Moscato, the Minister of Gelato and Big Mom's 16th son, tries to calm his mother, promising that they would have croquembouche ready soon. However, Big Mom attacks Muscat, seeing him only as an edible obstacle. Muscat attempts to flee from his deranged mother, but she pulls away 40 years of his life span and renders him unconscious.
The shocked citizens continue to evacuate, and Jinbe suddenly appears from the Juice River with a pile of the anthropomorphic croquembouche tourists. He throws the croquembouche into Big Moms' mouth, immediately satiating her. The croquembouche are glad to be eaten if they are found to be delicious. Big Mom greets Jinbe and thanks him for the poneglyph he gave her, asking if the unusually sweet atmosphere on the island is because of him. Jinbe denies this, saying he just arrived. He then says that he has something important to discuss with Big Mom, who then gets angry as she wonders if he intends to leave her crew.

A few hours ago, Jinbe told the Sun Pirates that he wanted to join the Straw Hat Pirates because he believed Luffy would become Pirate King and bring peace to Fish-Man Island. Aladine replied that given how passionately Jinbe has talked about Luffy, he should go and follow his aspirations. Jinbe was flustered that he has talked about Luffy that much, and his crewmates reflected that Jinbe had become a pirate and joined Big Mom in order to protect them, so they were willing for Jinbe to do something for himself for a change. The Sun Pirates said that they could take care of themselves, and Jinbe became extremely grateful, although the fish-men got worried about what Big Mom would say. This would especially put Aladine, as he had married Charlotte Praline, the 29th daughter of the Charlotte Family. Praline then appeared and yelled at Aladine, thinking he would abandon her if the fish-men had a falling out with Big Mom, but Aladine assured her that he would negotiate with Big Mom. However, Praline said that there was no need to negotiate, as she would follow him anywhere, and she embraced him lovingly. Jinbe asked Praline if they would incur Big Mom's wrath by leaving, and she replied that nobody who has tried to leave has survived.
In the present at Sweet City, Charlotte Moscato's body is carried away as a citizen asks Mont d'Or if Jinbe will be killed as well, but he does not know what Big Mom will do. Inside the Whole Cake Chateau, Big Mom speaks with Jinbe about cutting ties with her, and some pieces of cake tearfully ask him why he is going. Big Mom eats them, saying that she does not care about the reason and that pirates should live freely. However, she says that she will lose a valuable and powerful resource, so it is only right that Jinbe loses something as well. A roulette wheel is then brought out, with pictures of arms, legs, heads, and crowns on the slots.
As night falls, the Sanji Retrieval Team stands on a solid sea of sweet syrup. Luffy wants to sleep for the night, but Nami does not want to get ambushed again by the giant ants they had just dispatched. Pedro says that the sea will start flowing again at daybreak but has frozen for the night, and the team tries to unfreeze it. Brook says that he has put the ants to sleep, but it will be chaos when they wake up, and Pedro states that his ship was once eaten by these ants. Luffy wonders why he was in Totto Land before, and Carrot reveals that Pedro was once a pirate with Pekoms, although Pedro says he only accompanied Pekoms halfway. They were on a journey to find poneglyphs for Nekomamushi, but it ended when they came to Totto Land, as Pedro had fallen there. The team is shocked to hear this, and Nami thinks that this must trigger bad memories for Pedro, but he says that he is glad to be aiding the others on this voyage. Pedro states that he had heard Nekomamushi and Inuarashi showed the Straw Hats the Road Poneglyph on Zou, which surprised him, as they had not shown it to strangers since 26 years ago when they showed it to the Roger Pirates. Pedro knows that the rulers must have faith that the Straw Hats will follow in Roger's footsteps, so he tells them that Big Mom's Road Poneglyph will be useful to them after they defeat Kaidou, thus they should steal it while they are here. He then asks Luffy to buy him time to sneak in and steal it while they rescue Sanji, which Luffy agrees to, and Nami tells Luffy that the arrangement is not that easy. Before Luffy and Brook have a brief discussion on fate, Chopper then notices that the ants are awake again as they rush at the ship.
The next morning, the team reaches Whole Cake Island, and Pedro reveals that the tallest cake is Big Mom's castle. Nami intends to go straight to avoid security, and Luffy suddenly sees someone standing on the coast.

At the southwestern shore of Whole Cake Island, Luffy and Carrot get excited as the Shark Submerge III emerges from Channel 3, inside it are Pedro and Brook. Pedro apologizes to Luffy for taking Brook on his quest, but Brook says that he should be able to help infiltrate and steal Big Mom's Road Poneglyph by detaching his soul from his body, which scares Carrot. Luffy bids farewell to Pedro and Brook and says that they will be waiting around after meeting with Sanji and Pudding. Pedro reminds them to stay alert and remember the message that Pekoms left. The Shark Submerge III submerges as Pedro and Brook pilot it through a river towards Big Mom's castle, going deep to avoid detection.
Luffy is excited about adventuring on Whole Cake Island, and calls out for Sanji and Pudding. Nami questions if Luffy really saw them earlier like he said he did, which Luffy affirms as Chopper and Carrot taste the meringue ground. Luffy goes up a hill and says that he saw Sanji and Pudding standing right where he was, but disappeared when he briefly looked away. Suddenly, Luffy sees Sanji standing against a tree, and he, Carrot, and Chopper race toward him. However, Nami does not see Sanji there and wonders what her crewmates are doing, as they also lose sight of Sanji. Luffy, Chopper, and Carrot become instantly enthralled by the forest in front of them, which is made entirely out of candy, and they call to Sanji. Nami decides to take their visions of Sanji seriously, but wonders why he would be hiding from them. Luffy, Chopper, and Carrot decide to split up and look for Sanji, although they are more interested in the sweet treats in their paths, but Nami tells them to stop. Luffy tells her that they should follow their instincts, but Nami questions their motives and says that they will look for Sanji together. As they walk on a bridge, Luffy, Chopper, and Carrot keep getting distracted by sweets, which Nami berates them for. She reminds her crewmates that they are in enemy territory and should go back if they do not find Sanji soon, which disappoints them. However, the trio is still distracted by the heaping of sweets, and as Nami shouts at them again a giant crocodile jumps out from under them with its mouth open.
The team barely manages to race across the rest of the bridge as the crocodile takes a giant bite out of it. Chopper asks Luffy if they should fight the crocodile, but Luffy says there is no need as the crocodile, who is wearing a bowler hat and suspenders, notes aloud that they are just humans. It then walks away on its hind legs, causing Luffy to get mad that it did not find them delicious, to Nami's chagrin. Nami tells her crewmates that the crocodile they encountered is the definition of weird and dangerous. Luffy, however, questions that after everything she's seen since entering the Grand Line, should she really be freaked out at this point (and points to Chopper and Carrot who fall in the same category of being weird), leaving Nami embarrassed after realizing this. She admits that he does have a point, but she still wants to go back and wait on the coast. Suddenly, Luffy sees another version of himself, which shocks his crewmates. The two Luffys ask who the other is at the same time, making the same movements and expressions. They begin threatening the same thing at each other, mirroring each other's actions as though they are reflections of each other. Chopper and Nami grow extremely confused about what is happening, and Carrot sees Sanji lying on a tree branch. The Sanji Retrieval Team calls out to Sanji, saying they came to take him back and wondering where Pudding is. Luffy heads over to Sanji, but ends up headbutting his other version, causing them to get into a fistfight as Chopper sees Sanji running away again. The two Luffys tell the others to go after Sanji as they continue fighting, matching every blow and wondering who the other is.
While chasing after Sanji, Nami, Chopper, and Carrot encounter a large man buried to the neck in the ground, which frightens both parties. They ask the man who buried him, and he reveals that he is here because he likes being buried. The man asks them for some juice, causing Chopper to become enraged over his insanity, forcing Nami to pull Chopper away as the pirates ignore the buried man and continue running after Sanji. The man offers to share the direction Sanji went in if they give him apple juice from a waterfall, but the team is suddenly forced to duck as a rabbit rides in on a large bird and swings a spear at them, which cuts apart a few living trees. Thoroughly bewildered by the insanity of the forest, Nami tries to convince the others to go back, saying that if Sanji was really there he would not sit idly by while this happened. However, their compasses and watches begin spinning nonstop as everything in the Seducing Woods comes to life, intending on covering up the pirates' exit and playing a game of death.

In the Seducing Woods on Whole Cake Island, the living wildlife whisper among themselves, wondering if the Sanji Retrieval Team has noticed them and saying that "Madam Brulee" is playing with the pirates. Meanwhile, Nami, Chopper, and Carrot run from the crane-riding rabbit Randolph, whom Carrot says is not a mink despite its appearance. Randolph spins its spear over its head, and Carrot flips back toward it as she attacks it with Electro. Carrot notes that Randolph cannot use Electro, proving it is not a mink, and Nami tells Carrot not to get separated from them. Carrot electrocutes the crane with Electro as she runs back to Nami and Chopper, and Randolph leaps off its downed steed. Randolph hurls its spear at the pirates, and they dodge it as they run into the buried giant again; the spear ends up stabbing the giant in the back of the head. Chopper remarks that the giant makes a good landmark, meaning that they are getting closer to Luffy.
When they relocate Luffy, who is still fighting his reflection, Nami tells him that they need to head back to the coast. Luffy agrees to go back with them as he and his reflection run in opposite directions. The Sanji Retrieval Team approaches the damaged donut bridge, but one of the Luffys suddenly calls out to the rest of the team; the other Luffy, the one with the team, immediately clamps his mouth shut. The Luffy with the team wonders where Sanji is, but Nami replies that they are not sure that the person they saw was really Sanji. Suddenly, the Sanji Retrieval Team runs into the buried giant again, which shocks and confuses both the team and the giant. They decide to turn around and go back over the river, but end up face-to-face once more with the giant. Nami tries to understand how they are looping back continuously to the same spot, when she suddenly sees the living flora in front of her moving around. Nami realizes that there was never a path back to the coast to begin with, and everything in the forest starts coming to life around them. "Luffy's" expression changes as he tells Nami what the Seducing Woods really are; he then transforms into Charlotte Brulee, the 8th daughter of the Charlotte Family, and grabs Nami. Brulee remarks that Nami's and Carrot's beautiful faces make her want to slice them up with her fingernails.
Meanwhile, in Lake Aprico beside Whole Cake Chateau, a Germa 66 ship sails into the port. The single ship then converges with a much larger platform suspended above other interlocked ships; collectively, the country on the platform is introduced as the Germa Kingdom, the country ruled by the Vinsmoke Family and the only maritime country in the world. The vast majority of the kingdom's citizens are shown to be male Germa 66 soldiers, who train constantly every day.
From the balcony of the Kingdom's royal castle, a pensive Sanji looks down at the training soldiers before turning to his elder sister, Reiju, and asking her how long she intends to sit in his room. Reiju responds that they have not seen each other in 13 years, and yet he still gives her the cold shoulder. Sanji replies irritably that he made it clear that he wanted nothing to do with their family anymore, and expresses distaste at the family's choice of interior decoration: a large picture on the wall that showed their father standing over four decapitated kings. Reiju explains that the picture was taken during the Conquest of Four Nations, which showcased their father's dream of regaining the family's ancestral dominion over the entire North Blue. Reiju questions Sanji as to why he would want to forsake his royal status and live a mundane pirating life, telling him that he could live a life of luxury and be served by his own personal maids. Reiju continues, stating that Sanji would have access to the wealth, power and devoted soldiers gained from their family's generations of strength, but Sanji reiterates once more that he has no intention of marrying Charlotte Pudding. As they converse, a voice from outside the room calls to the "commander", who responds that he is heading to Sanji's room.
Suddenly, the Vinsmoke patriarch, Vinsmoke Judge, enters the room and is greeted by Reiju. Judge asks Sanji if he is intent on giving him a hard time, but Sanji retorts by calling him a "bastard" and refusing to acknowledge Judge as his father. Judge asks if Sanji did something to Yonji, despite Yonji's formidable strength, and Sanji simply replies that he must just be stronger. Judge then calls on Sanji to step outside, and to settle their quarrel using physical force.

In the Germa Kingdom, a few Germa 66 agents rush to see the duel between Sanji and Judge, wondering what Sanji is like. In Yonji's fortress, Yonji tells an engineer that he told Sanji off about refusing to cooperate with the wedding plans, expecting things to be the same as in the past, but ended up getting a dent in his head as a result of his brother overpowering him. The engineer unsuccessfully tries to repair Yonji's facial structure with a hammer; he next resorts to using a press machine to press Yonji's face on both sides, which returns it to normal. Yonji wonders how a "good-for-nothing" person like Sanji managed to best him and swears to make him pay.
Meanwhile, the Germa 66 agents get their first glimpse of Sanji's combat prowess, admiring the strength he is displaying even without wearing a raid suit. Sanji launches a kick at Judge, who blocks the attack with his arm before berating Sanji for kicking his own father. Sanji retaliates that Judge started the fight, and once again refuses to acknowledge him as his father. Judge continues to swipe at Sanji with his spear, and Sanji states that the only reason he returned to the Germa Kingdom was to protect his crew. Judge reminds Sanji that reneging on their pact will incur Big Mom's vengeance, and questions if Sanji would really sacrifice his own family. Once again, Sanji tells him that he only came to protect his crew while angrily stating he does not care what happens to his family in such an eventuality as he no longer considers them family.
During the fight, Sanji recalls snippets of his childhood. He recalls being beaten by Ichiji, Niji and Yonji, after they caught him making food for "rats" (an activity they considered "below" royalty). Sanji attempted to retrieve the food he had made by punching Ichiji in the face, but his brother retaliated with much stronger force, causing Yonji and Niji to laugh and tell Sanji that, even though they were all born on the same day, he was nothing like them. When Judge and Reiju passed by behind them, Sanji called out to his father for help; however, Judge replied that he had no obligation to assist, or even raise, a worthless son, and denounced Sanji as a disgrace to their family name. As Reiju laughed, Sanji's brothers resumed their bullying.
In the present, Judge asks Sanji if he was reminiscing about his past and swings his spear at him, but Sanji blocks it with a Busoshoku Haki-imbued leg. Judge and Germa 66 are surprised to see Sanji's display of Haki, and Judge offers him a sword, reminding Sanji that he had trained him in swordsmanship. Sanji, however, refuses to use his hands for anything other than cooking, a spectating Vinsmoke Reiju is in disbelief at Sanji's strength describing him as a beast. Judge criticizes him for keeping his old habits before he leaps high above Sanji, leaving the Germa 66 agents awestruck, and Sanji tries to counter Judge's aerial attack with a Diable Jambe kick. However, Judge blocks it, grabs Sanji's leg, and throws him into the ground, saying that war advances technology as he kicks Sanji with an electrified foot. He then blasts Sanji away with a blaster in the back of his shoe. As Judge continues, and tells Sanji that the Germa he once knew is a thing of the past, Sanji asks if he should really view his birth family in a higher light despite them not giving him any decent memories. Sanji state all he holds is hatred for Judge and reactivates Diable Jambe as Judge commands his men to form a wall between them; this causes an attacking Sanji to hesitate, as he tells the men to get out of the way. Much to Sanji's shock, Judge then pierces one of his men from behind, positioning the point of the spear right in front of Sanji before channeling electricity through its tip and sending Sanji flying backwards.
Back inside the Germa Kingdom's royal castle, Reiju tends to Sanji's wounds while expressing her surprise at Sanji's combat prowess. However, Sanji shrugs her off and reiterates his disdain for his family, saying that, despite his hopes of returning to find them improved, they were even worse now than he remembered them being. Judge tells him that the Germa 66 soldiers would give up their lives for the family, and Sanji asks him why he is not using them to try and conquer the North Blue again. Judge explains that an alliance with Big Mom will guarantee their conquest; however, as he refused to hand over one of his "precious sons" to meet her terms for an alliance, he sought out Sanji, the dispensable son whom he never truly considered a son. Angry and upset, a distracted Sanji notices that Reiju had stopped administering aid and had placed wristlets on his arms - wristlets which, Judge reveals, use the same explosive mechanisms as the collars World Nobles place on their slaves. Judge warns Sanji that they will permanently damage his hands if he tries to escape Whole Cake Island, and further warns him that Big Mom is the only one with possession of the key. Even without this guarantee, Judge remarks that the soldiers of the Germa Kingdom will never let Sanji leave alive, and he threatens Sanji with the ultimatum that he has no choice but to go through with the wedding as scheduled.

On a balcony in the Germa Kingdom's royal castle, Sanji stares at the exploding wristlets placed on his arms by his father and sister. It is shown that, a little while earlier, Sanji had tried to remove the wristlets forcibly, setting off a warning alarm; Reiju intervened, telling him that the keys in Big Mom's possession are the only way to remove them. Sanji recalls a childhood memory of Zeff bandaging his wounded hands, before (literally) beating into him the lesson that a chef's hands are not meant for fighting. As his anger mounts, Sanji yells out from the balcony in frustration.
Meanwhile, Brook and Pedro successfully infiltrate Sweet City using the Shark Submerge III. As they land, they overhear the locals discussing Jinbe's betrayal of Big Mom. Totto Land's newspaper reported that, after asking to leave her crew, he retracted his request upon hearing the price she demanded for such a betrayal. Brook realizes that Jinbe's position as Big Mom's subordinate was what led him to turn down Luffy's offer to join the Straw Hat Pirates, and reflects that the newspaper's account of Jinbe's cowardice was uncharacteristic of the fish-man they knew. Pedro is astonished that Big Mom has a former Shichibukai in her crew, and asks Brook if Jinbe is an acquaintance of the Straw Hats. Brook confirms that he is.
Suddenly, Pedro spots Baron Tamago and Sanji's fiancee, Charlotte Pudding, shopping for a wedding dress. Pudding is anxious to tend to a prior engagement, but Tamago insists that she make finding a dress her priority. The store's staff suggest that Pudding choose an item that would suit the groom's tastes, but a flustered Pudding remarks that she has only met Sanji once before. Brook and Pedro realize that Pudding was unable to slip her handlers, and that the pair that Luffy spotted on the shore of Whole Cake Island could not have been Sanji and Pudding. As they continue their spying, two soldiers report the Sanji Retrieval Team's movements since arriving in Totto Land, including: the arrival of the Thousand Sunny on Cacao Island; the disappearance of Pekoms; the presence of Luffy, Nami, Chopper and Carrot in the Seducing Woods; and the presence of Brook and Pedro elsewhere in Totto Land. Tamago recognizes the soldiers' sketch of Pedro but instructs the soldiers to focus on locating Pekoms. He muses that, in honor of their long partnership in Big Mom's service, he wants to appeal to Big Mom to forgive Pekoms, but that the situation is complex. Brook and Pedro start to panic, realizing that the whole Sanji Retrieval Team are in dire straits.
At the northeastern coast of Whole Cake Island, the Fire Tank Pirates are gathered behind Capone Bege, his wife Charlotte Chiffon, and Capone's son, Capone Gang Pez. A tied-up Pekoms is shown standing at the edge of a cliff. The two exchange words as, just before he is shot, Pekoms warns Capone that his underestimation of Big Mom will be his downfall. After being shot, Pekoms falls off the cliff and into the shark-infested waters below.
Inside the Queen's Chamber in Whole Cake Chateau, Caesar Clown is shown talking with Big Mom. Big Mom explains her dream for her family to encompass all the races of the world, and for all of its members to be able to sit and converse with each other at eye level. She reveals that she had previously commissioned Caesar to develop a drug which will turn her whole family into giants, and inquires as to its progress. Caesar reflects to himself that such a project was impossible, and that he had swindled her funds to spend on women and alcohol; however, he lies and states that, were it not for the interference of Luffy and Trafalgar Law, her drug would already be complete. He bemoans that, with the destruction of his research lab on Punk Hazard, he no longer has her drug. Big Mom, however, shocks and horrifies him when she reveals that she had an exact replica of his lab built out of candy and reinforced iron. Caesar is taken to the lab by the Big Mom's eldest son, Charlotte Perospero, who warns him that, if the drug is not ready in two weeks, Caesar will be turned into candy and (presumably) licked to death.
As night falls over Whole Cake Island, Luffy continues to labor in the Seducing Woods. He carries "Sanji" and "Pudding" into the center of a clearing in the woods. There, it is shown that multiple, bound versions of Sanji, Pudding, Nami, Chopper and Carrot are already gathered, each making animal sounds. Luffy exclaims that he has found all of them, but that they are all acting strangely. He then asks them why they were multiplying.

The story starts in Chocolate Town, where the narration explains that every six months, the citizens of Totto Land are asked a question, "Leave or Life?". Those who choose life have a small round object removed from their bodies.
Back in the Seducing Wood, Luffy is confused by all Namis, Choppers, Carrots, Sanjis, and Puddings he's collected. He cannot understand why they are multiplying and making animal sounds. One of them starts issuing threats to Luffy, and turns out to be the real Nami. After some blows to the head, Luffy apologizes while Nami furiously tells him she had been looking for him when he ambushed her. Nami marvels at her fake's likeness, and Luffy asks if they did not just multiply for fun. Nami angrily tells him that it is impossible. Nami turns her anger on the trapped giant, who had seen the whole thing but did nothing due to being immobilized. Luffy asks if something happened and Nami explains that their captain attacked them, much to his surprise.
Nami explains that it was someone impersonating Luffy who had tagged along with them as they tried to leave the woods. The woman then revealed herself to be Charlotte Brulee. Nami asks where the real Luffy is, and while Brulee is answering, Nami was able to pull out her Clima-Tact and escaped Brulee's hold by hitting her in the stomach with its expansion feature. Brulee tries to attack again, but Carrot attempts to fight her. Using a mirror, Brulee rebounds her Eleclaw attack back at her. Brulee explains that she ate the Mira Mira no Mi, a fruit that gives her the ability to reflect back anything she wants. Carrot tries to attack again, but this time is pulled inside the mirror, a move Brulee calls Mirro-World. Carrot is now a prisoner inside Brulee's mirror. Nami demands Carrot back, but Brulee tells her not to worry, as she doesn't plan on killing them, and asks if they realize the situation they are in. Brulee informs them that Big Mom is well aware of their presence in her territory. In fact, the only reason Brulee, Randolph, and the parts of the talking landscape are there is because Big Mom ordered them to. They were ordered to let them wander around aimlessly for a bit, but they absolutely cannot meet with Sanji, and to make them aware of what happens when they defy Big Mom. She then commands the talking wilderness, calling them "Homies", to make sure they don't lose sight of Nami and Chopper.
A tree root grabs Chopper's leg. Chopper tells Nami to find Luffy while he holds them off. Nami realizes that they have significantly underestimated the power an Emperor wields. She promises to come back with help. Brulee marvels at Chopper's abilities, saying her mother would love to add him to her collection. Nami concludes her recount, saying that she'd been running like crazy through the woods ever since. Luffy calls it absolutely crazy and asks where Chopper and Carrot are. Nami tells them it all happened right where they were standing, but there is no trace of them now. She then turns her attention to the buried giant. She demands to know why neither Brulee or her henchmen so much as touched him, assuming that he must be an accomplice. The giant tells them that he wouldn't exactly say they were enemies and promises to tell them more if they bring him some juice from a nearby river. Luffy tells him that if he can tell anything useful, he will gladly bring him all the juice he wants.
The giant remarks that Luffy seems pretty strong, but not so much for Nami. Nami angrily assures him that she is plenty powerful. He explains that he thought Chopper was pretty strong too, but the trees still jumped on him no problem, saying they don't stop until they've completed their mission. Luffy asks how they are able to move in the first place. The giant explains that every six months, each citizen is required to give a month's worth of their lifespan, in the form of their soul, to the country in exchange for protection. Luffy asks how that is even possible. He explains that Big Mom is a Devil Fruit user who ate the Soru Soru no Mi, giving her the ability to control souls. The pieces of soul are then spread throughout the islands. The souls then inhabit nearby objects, giving them sentience. The newly animated objects are called "homies". The collection is carried out by pieces of Big Mom's own soul, the "incarnations".
Nami remembers being in Chocolat Town and seeing things that should not have been alive. The giant also affirms that the souls can settle into animals. The giant explains that all the fakes Luffy gathered are animals transformed by Brulee's ability. Luffy then angrily asks why he didn't say anything and the giant explains that he didn't want to get involved. He then explains that long ago, he was Big Mom's husband. After giving her two daughters, she discarded him. A figure comes up from behind and grabs the giant by his ponytail and pulls him out of the ground. It turns out that the giant is really just a large man with an even larger head. The one to pull out his head was Charlotte Cracker, the 10th son in the family, Minister of Biscuits, and one of the three Sweet Commanders. The man pleads with Cracker to allow him to see Chiffon again, so he can congratulate her on her marriage. He also mentions that Lola ran away, and Nami is surprised to hear that name.

Nami is shocked to hear that the man with the gigantic head has a daughter named Lola, remembering how Pudding told them about an older sister who ran away from home in search of a marriage of her own choosing. The man tells Charlotte Cracker to unhand him, as he wanted to see his daughters, Lola and Chiffon. Nami recalls Lola giving her mother's vivre card on Thriller Bark, and realizes that Big Mom is Lola's mother while the man is her father, which surprises Luffy. Suddenly, Randolph comes riding in on his crane as they rush at the two Straw Hats. Luffy and Nami prepare to defend themselves, but Cracker suddenly knocks Randolph over by shouting at him. Cracker's shout causes the nearby tree homies to shrink and wither away, and Luffy and Nami note in shock that they did this not because of Haki, but because of fear. The tree homies wonder what Cracker is doing in the Seducing Woods, and he questions them whether he was not good enough to be there, before turning to Randolph and yelling at him for intruding in their business. Randolph apologizes, saying that his crane forced him to come, which the crane says is a lie.
Cracker states that Big Mom takes initiative, so she sent him in order to reliably deal with Luffy, who took down Donquixote Doflamingo and may have been too strong for Brulee. Brulee, having arrived at the scene, takes offense to this, as does an enormous tree homie she is standing on, who is revealed to be the master of the Seducing Woods, Kingbaum. Kingbaum states that no one they have targeted has emerged from the Seducing Woods alive, but Cracker states that they do not have time to play games: the rest of the Vinsmoke Family will be arriving at Whole Cake Chateau the next day, and they are sealing a long-awaited and important alliance with Germa 66. An irritated Brulee states that she knows that, as she turns the Straw Hat copies back into animals. Luffy sees her on the tree and mistakes her for a branch. Brulee gets offended and reveals that she has captured Carrot and Chopper inside her mirror. Brulee tells Cracker that she has already succeeded in capturing some of the Straw Hats as she drops the mirror on the ground, shattering it. Luffy talks with Chopper and Carrot, who did not shatter with the mirror, and they tell him to hold on for a second.
Cracker then decides to return to business by killing the man with the gigantic head first, saying that Big Mom does not care about his demise. The man pleads with Cracker, saying he could be his father, but Cracker says that he, like Big Mom, considered her 43 husbands as outsiders to the family. Pound asks again about his daughters as Cracker prepares to kill him with his sword, but Luffy suddenly blocks Cracker's swing. Luffy then kicks Cracker's arm, forcing him to let go of the man, and Luffy prepares to defend him, whom he has taken a liking to. The homies run away in terror, knowing that Cracker is about to fight Luffy, and Nami prepares to flee the scene with the man, who reveals his name to be Pound. Pound remembers that Nami stated Lola's name earlier, but the two are forced to run from the pursuing homies. As the homies chase them, Nami pulls out the Vivre Card Lola gave her that was hidden between her breasts, which glows very brightly and causes the homies to shrink back in terror. Brulee asks what is wrong with everyone, and Kingbaum replies that they cannot oppose Nami due to feeling Big Mom's powerful soul around her. Suddenly, Luffy is knocked into one of the tree homies by Cracker, who taps his limbs to multiply them, gaining a new weapon with each limb. Cracker states that Luffy has no chance of coming out victorious. Nami tells Luffy not to go all out, but Luffy replies that he knows no other way of fighting.

Cracker announces himself to Luffy as the "Biscuit Knight", and his sword as "Pretzel"; Cracker further proclaims that Pretzel has no equal among swords. An on-looking Nami is shocked that Cracker's limbs, and even Pretzel, have multiplied, and warns Luffy to fall back since Cracker was likely an executive member of the Big Mom Pirates. Luffy refuses, however, and charges at Cracker, hitting him with an Elephant Gun attack that Cracker easily blocks with his shields. Cracker then repels Luffy and assaults him with his multiplied Pretzels, which overwhelm Luffy as he struggles to counter them. Cracker then drives a Busoshoku Haki-imbued Pretzel into Luffy's abdomen, sending Luffy flying far away despite Luffy also coating himself in Haki.
As she continues to watch on, Nami realizes that they are truly in over their heads if Luffy cannot even defeat one of Big Mom's underlings. She calls on Luffy to run, but is blocked by Brulee and Kingbaum. Brulee laughs at their helplessness, saying that, like the other Worst Generation crews that entered the New World seeking to make their captains Pirate King, the Straw Hats will hit the same wall and stumble. Brulee further reveals that, during the past two years, Eustass Kid, Scratchmen Apoo, Capone Bege, and Urouge had all entered Big Mom's territory, but aside from Bege (who subordinated himself to them), they were all chased away without even encountering Big Mom herself. Brulee throws a mirror down at Nami's feet and appears inside it, saying that Urouge alone managed to defeat one of their previously Four Commanders. However, an enraged Big Mom then sent Cracker to deal with him, leaving Brulee confident that Urouge's corpse is lying somewhere in the Woods. Brulee mocks the mere thought of the Straw Hats being able to stand up to Big Mom and ruin her plans, emerging from her mirror and grabbing Nami by the ankles. She reiterates that they, too, will perish without even seeing Big Mom's face.
As Brulee drags Nami into her mirror, Nami calls for Pound, who throws a wild punch at Brulee. Brulee dodges it, but is forced to release Nami, and she warns her stepfather that his actions now qualify as irredeemable rebellion against Big Mom. Nami then strikes Brulee with Thunderbolt Tempo, sending her crashing to the ground and frightening the nearby homies. Pound warns that Brulee will definitely return, as she can appear in any mirror, and Nami apologizes for dragging him into the conflict. However, Pound replies that it was settled since Big Mom authorized her subordinates to kill him at their leisure. He then asks Nami if she is really friends with Lola, which she confirms. Nami then withdraws Big Mom's Vivre Card, saying that she is eager to put it to good use.
The homies start running away from the pirates, screaming that this was more than they bargained for; however, Cracker repeats his orders to not let them leave the Seducing Woods alive. Luffy attacks Cracker with Hawk Gatling, but Cracker easily blocks it with his Haki-imbued shields, and Luffy remarks that Cracker's Haki is the hardest that he's ever come across. Cracker then slams Luffy into the ground, telling Luffy that, if he truly considers himself Sanji's friend, he will leave Sanji be to get married and live the luxurious life of a royal. Cracker draws closer to Luffy as he berates him for his selfishness, stating that Sanji would not appreciate being pursued by his former pirate crew, and that even if Luffy did manage to get past Cracker, Sanji would simply tell the "lowly pirates" to leave. Luffy, enraged by these taunts, activates Gear 4 and blows Cracker away with Kong Gun; Luffy warns him not to put words into Sanji's mouth, saying that, whatever Sanji's feelings on the marriage, he would never speak to the crew in that way.

As a beaten Cracker slowly gets up, Luffy angrily states that he is going to meet up with Sanji. Luffy flies towards Cracker to deal the finishing blow, but Cracker gets up and attacks Luffy with Pretzel Roll. Luffy's fist meets the tip of the sword, breaking it and shattering Cracker's body in half. However, a smaller figure rises from the bottom half of the body and slices Luffy's arm, causing him to recoil in pain. Luffy asks who the man is, but the man simply laughs and reveals that he is Cracker before expressing his surprise that Luffy broke through his "armor". Luffy is shocked at the revelation, saying that Cracker coughed up blood after being hit with Kong Gun, but Cracker reveals that the blood was actually a specially made jam that he used with his Devil Fruit, the Bisu Bisu no Mi. Cracker states that, due to his craftsmanship, he can make biscuits with his Devil Fruit into anything he desires, giving him a limitless range of abilities to fight his opponents. As he creates several puppets resembling his original suit of armor, Cracker mocks Luffy for only being barely able to defeat one of his potentially infinite biscuit soldiers. Cracker reiterates that Luffy will never be able to see Sanji, but Luffy recalls Sanji's promise to return to the crew and attacks the puppets with rapid fire Gear 4 punches. He shatters the puppets' shields, but Cracker has them advance as he leaps out from behind them, driving Pretzel toward Luffy's head. Luffy barely manages to dodge the attack, and the fight continues.
Nearby, the homies all run away from the clearing in which Luffy and Cracker are fighting. However, Nami stops the homies in their tracks as she stands inside Kingbaum's mouth, using Lola's Vivre Card to force the homies to do her bidding. When she asks them who they fear more, Cracker or Big Mom, the homies reply that Nami scares them more than either of the Charlottes. At the same time, inside Brulee's Mirro-World, a shackled Chopper tells Carrot, also shackled, that he has a plan, and so she should call him "Brother Chopper". Carrot refers to him as "Choniki" instead and asks what the plan is, and Chopper explains his realization that the Mirro-World is connected to every mirror on Whole Cake Island. Thus, instead of trying to escape, they should use Brulee's power against her. At Sweet City, Brook and Pedro sit inside a biscuit soldier patrolling the streets, knowing that the soldier will return to Whole Cake Chateau after its night watch, thereby allowing them to infiltrate the castle.
The next morning, inside Whole Cake Chateau, Big Mom's homies inform her that the Vinsmoke Family will soon be arriving at the castle to meet and exchange gifts, and that the wedding cake is on schedule for tomorrow. Big Mom asks about the intruders in the Seducing Woods, but they assure her that they are certain to fail against Cracker and that their likelihood of reaching Sanji will be nonexistent once he enters the Chateau. Big Mom notes that not all of the Vinsmoke children are gathered, but her hat updates her that the two eldest sons have, in fact, just arrived. Outside the Chateau, in the Germa Kingdom, Judge and Reiju are happy to receive the news of their return, while Yonji voices his eager anticipation at their reunion with Sanji. Sanji, looking down from a balcony in the Vinsmoke castle, trembles as he watches Vinsmoke Ichiji and Vinsmoke Niji disembark; as the Germa 66 soldiers give their commanders a hero's welcome, Niji angrily wonders why Sanji was not there to greet them, but Ichiji tells him to quiet down.

As the newly reunited Vinsmoke Family eat breakfast within the throne room of their castle, Judge reflects that Broc Coli Island was one of numerous nations impacted by the fall of Doflamingo's weapon trade; he and Reiju note that one side caved in and hired Germa 66 out of desperation to end the war, rather than continue sustaining casualties. However, Ichiji and Niji express complete indifference to the politics of the war, showing concern only for the money they had made. Yonji reflected on the profit-boosting possibility of working for both sides, but Judge says that it would make them no better than pirates. Niji then mentions the upcoming Levely, and Judge replies that as their goal nears completion, the World Government will likely strip the Vinsmokes of their right to participate in Levely.
Niji remarks that it is strange to see his father in high spirits, expressing surprise that Sanji ultimately proved of use to them. He tells Sanji that when Sanji left the family 13 years ago, the brothers often pondered humorous ways in which he might have died, causing Yonji to laugh. Sanji's only response is to tell Niji to finish the food left on his plate, but Niji replies that it was unappetizing and that he will throw it away. Sanji's expression darkens as he orders Niji to eat it, calling him a spoiled prince who does not know the value of food. This enrages Niji, who calls for the head chef Cosette; Cosette appears and vehemently apologizes for making food not to Niji's liking, and Niji tells her to stay still as he throws his plate directly at her. Sanji catches the plate before it makes contact with Cosette, causing the food to fall onto the floor. Both Niji and Sanji are angered, with the latter expressing fury over the former's attempt to harm a woman. Niji replies that she is just a menial servant, but Sanji picks up the food, examining it and complimenting its nutritional value. Cosette attempts to stop him so that she can clean it up herself, but Sanji remarks that she must have put in great effort to make the dish and he eats it off the floor, shocking Cosette. All the Vinsmokes (except Reiju) are repulsed by Sanji's action, but Sanji continues by telling Cosette that she used the perfect seasoning for this dish, causing her to become flustered and start crying from an earnest compliment by one of the royal family.
An enraged Niji attempts to kick Sanji, but Judge tells him not to attack Sanji before the wedding. Niji halts his kick right in front of Sanji's face, although the force of it is sufficient to knock Cosette over. Niji labels Sanji a shame to their family, but Sanji replies that being in this family was shameful to him. Sanji proceeds to berate them for not appreciating meals, harming women, and treating their subordinates like expendable pawns. Ichiji then interjects, saying that Sanji's comments only show that he had too long associating with commoners, and that they are meant to act like royals. Judge concurs with Ichiji and Niji and holds up a photograph of Zeff, wondering if he was responsible for Sanji's negative upbringing. Sanji is shocked that his father knows about Zeff, and Judge states that they have pinpointed the Baratie's location. Judge recalls receiving both the exploding wristlets and Zeff's photograph from Tamago, before telling his son that if he continues challenging and defying him, he will see to it that Zeff is killed. Judge tells Sanji that this is his first and final warning, before telling Sanji that he will leave his old friends and old life behind if he wanted everyone to remain unscathed. As his siblings leave the throne room, Sanji recalls being raised by Zeff on the Baratie as well as their tearful goodbye, and Judge instructs him to prepare to head to Whole Cake Island for their lunch meeting with Big Mom and Pudding later in the day.
Later, Sanji stumbles upon a heavily beaten and unconscious Cosette, becoming enraged at Niji for his possible vindictive actions. Yonji appears and states that Sanji brought this upon himself and Cosette by sticking up for her. Yonji asks if Sanji wants to confront Niji and Sanji accepts his offer, but they instead end up before a highly secured room; Yonji reminds Sanji that it was the same room they had never been allowed to enter as children. They enter the room, and Sanji expresses his disbelief as he sees dozens of soldiers from Germa 66 being kept in large bottle-shaped containers.

Vinsmoke Yonji reveals to Sanji that the people kept in bottle-like tanks are the soldiers of Germa 66, and a shocked Sanji notes that they are all identical and wonders if they are even alive. Yonji tells Sanji that the Germa Kingdom has always been a kingdom of science, revealing that their father Vinsmoke Judge was hailed as a brilliant scientist before they were born. Judge was once part of a lawless research team, in partnership with Vegapunk, and the two discovered the Lineage Factor of living organisms, giving them the blueprints to life itself. Upon discovering this, the World Government decided it was too great a power for them to have; they arrested Vegapunk and drove the other researchers apart. Judge continued this research in secret, leading eventually to the creation of the clones that served Germa 66 as its foot soldiers. Yonji states that other nations not only fear Germa, but also envy their possession of an extremely loyal and easily replenishable military force (a 20 year old clone can be grown in five years).
Sanji tells Yonji to stop, stating that the revelations were making him nauseous, and he sits down and lights a cigarette. Vinsmoke Ichiji and Vinsmoke Niji then enter the room, saying that, when the family first learned that Sanji had been spending his recent life as a pirate, they had hoped it might have toughened him up, but all they had seen indicated that Sanji was as disappointing as ever. Upon seeing Niji, Sanji grows enraged at what he did to Cosette and kicks him in the face, but Ichiji reminds him that they can easily kill Zeff in response to any resistance by Sanji. Niji then moves behind Sanji extremely quickly and grabs him around the neck, taunting him over his powerlessness before kneeing him in the back. Niji's knee is electrified, and the attack causes Sanji to cough up blood as Niji punches him into the ground with an electrified fist. Niji tells Sanji that if he knew he cared about Cosette that much, he would have beaten her even more, and then arranged for a crippled Cosette to serve in Sanji's personal staff. Ichiji welcomes Sanji "home" and reminds him that he is at the bottom of their family's hierarchy.
As he listens to his brothers' taunts, Sanji recalls further parts of his childhood. As children, he and his siblings stood before Judge as their father informed them that they were his greatest scientific achievements; through his scientific breakthroughs, Judge had genetically enhanced their bodies to surpass normal human limitations. He instructs them that, if they train, they will be able to develop superhuman abilities and lead Germa 66 to achieve Judge's ambitions. As the training regime begins, however, Sanji quickly began lagging behind his siblings in their routines, which irritated them. Sanji faced off against Niji in swordsmanship training, but his wooden sword broke when it came into contact with Niji; Niji then easily beat him up with his sword, to the point where Germa 66 soldiers had to pull Niji off Sanji to prevent further damage. Later, a Germa 66 aide reported to Judge that Ichiji, Niji, and Yonji were all developing rapidly, both physically and intellectually, but Sanji's genetics had not changed since he was born, leaving him as a normal human being. An enraged Judge soon discovers Sanji in his room, having just cooked a plate of food for a rat. Judge proceeded to berate Sanji for serving others, stating that Sanji's mother had long passed and that there was nothing to be gained from following the legacy of the dead. Judge warned Sanji that, since he did not have his siblings' aptitude, he would have to train much harder to contribute to the Germa Kingdom. Judge then shattered a window, sending the rat and Sanji's dish falling toward the ground, causing Sanji to cry.
As their training continued, Sanji was once again beaten up by his brothers while Vinsmoke Reiju watched on and laughed; later, Reiju treated Sanji's wounds and confided to him that she only laughed at their brothers' actions so she would not be bullied herself. Judge and his aides continued observing no progress from Sanji, and Judge eventually decided to hold a state funeral to mourn Sanji's "death" in an accident. As they watched on, Sanji's brothers expressed a mixture of surprise and glee at the news of his death, while a nervous Reiju smiled at their conversation. In reality, Sanji had been detained inside the palace while other Germa 66 soldiers detained his face in an iron mask; he was then imprisoned in a dungeon, and began yelling for someone to speak with his father. One of the soldiers then revealed to Sanji that they had been acting under Judge's orders, as Judge wished to start over in a world where Sanji had never been born. Sanji began to cry in his cell, as he shouted for his father to let him out and apologized for being born weak.

Over 13 years ago, the Germa Kingdom cooks made a fancy meal every day, but had no idea where it was going to, intriguing them. A servant took the meal to Sanji's cell, which he had been in for six months. The cooks continued wondering who the meals would possibly go to, but were told by others to stop questioning the king's orders. The guards loosened Sanji's iron mask, allowing him to eat, and Sanji heard his siblings training outside. Outside, Ichiji took down a grown man, and Judge's aide stated that his children had magnificent skills, causing Judge to happily embrace and congratulate them.
As Sanji ate, he remembered his earliest attempts to cook, which resulted in him cutting his hand. A cook stated that a royal like Sanji should not be in the kitchen, but Sanji was later able to make some kind of dish. He then carried it to the medical ward, and a guard attempted to convince him to not go there alone in the rain, but Sanji continued and told him to leave before slipping in a puddle. The weather began to get worse, and Sanji was attacked by a dog who wanted the food. Finally, a battered Sanji made it to the medical ward, and he presented the food he made to Eponi. Eponi reminded him that his mother could not stomach most food, but decided to try it anyways. However, the food tasted extremely bad, and Sanji went to visit his bedridden mother. His mother took interest in the dish and told Eponi that from now on Sanji would cook for her. Eponi and Sanji told her that Sanji's food had become a mess after his journey, but Sanji's mother ate it anyways and complimented it. She cleared her plate and asked Sanji to cook something again, though she later died.
Back in his cell, Sanji requested a cookbook and some cooking utensils, and while he practiced cooking, he read something in his book about the All Blue. Later, Ichiji, Niji, and Yonji discovered Sanji and entered his cage to beat him up, and Reiju stood nearby. After their brothers had left, she tended to Sanji's wounds, though she said she was not on his side as she did not want to be targeted as well. Reiju said that the modifications made to their bodies had made her brothers incapable of empathy, though they had not affected her in the same way. She then revealed to Sanji that they were about to traverse the Red Line to go to the East Blue and fight some wars there. Sanji was thrown into the wall as the ships comprising the Germa Kingdom split apart and climbed up the Red Line, and as his brothers laid in wait, Sanji revealed to Reiju that he wanted to become a chef, and a shocked Reiju told him to stop telling her things like that.
In the East Blue, the people of Cozia noticed Germa 66's presence and attacked them as Judge continued his troops' onslaught. Sanji asked Reiju if he would have to be around his father if he ran away into the East Blue, and Reiju told him to stand back as she bent the bars of his cell. She then ran off, reminding Sanji that he would get only one chance to escape. As Germa 66 began their invasion of Cozia, Sanji looked for the key to free him from his iron mask, but he was caught by Judge. Sanji pulled out a dagger as he told his father that no one would stop him from leaving. Judge expressed his disappointment at Sanji's insubordinate behavior and told him that since he was now a commoner, he would be sure to die out in the world. However, Judge then stated that he was happy to hear this, since his humanity had prevented him from killing Sanji but Sanji leaving now would fulfill his wish to eliminate his weak son. Judge then requested to Sanji that he should never identify himself as his offspring, since he was the one thing he was ashamed of. This caused Sanji to start bawling. Outside, the Germa 66 soldiers turned their attention to a cruise ship at the port, but left it alone due to it not being related to their mission. Having removed his iron mask, Sanji and Reiju stand outside, with Reiju telling Sanji to get on a ship and abandon his old life, saying that one day he would meet people who would treat him the way he deserved to be treated. She finally told him to not look back as he ran toward the ship in tears.
Back in the present, Sanji's brothers walk away from him, and he lies on the ground defeated as doctors tend to him. However, Reiju arrives and orders the doctors to leave. She expresses her disappointment at Sanji's care for Zeff leaving him in this state, saying that he should have known what would happen if he came back.
In the Seducing Woods, 11 hours after the battle between Cracker and Luffy started, a very obese Luffy complained that he was full, and an exasperated Cracker was angry at him for eating all his Biscuit Soldiers. Cracker is getting tired of Luffy's strategy of fighting, running, and eating, but Luffy is determined to exhaust Cracker's stamina. However, Cracker is also eagerly awaiting the point when Luffy explodes from eating, but Luffy does not care as he is determined to see Sanji.

Cracker creates more Biscuit Soldiers to battle Luffy, and he tells Kingbaum that he will report the tree homie's insubordination to Big Mom. Baum replies that none of them can put up a fight against Nami due to the power of the Vivre Card she carries, but Cracker is not swayed by the excuse and tells him to save it for Big Mom. Cracker then complains that Nami keeps producing rain that softens his Biscuit Soldiers, making them edible. However, Nami berates Cracker for complaining about a pirate's fight, telling him not to lash out at her soldiers. The homies are appalled to be called Nami's soldiers but fall right in line to her when she pulls out the Vivre Card. Cracker prepares to finish the battle by sending more Biscuit Soldiers at Luffy, and Luffy prepares to eat all of them despite his stomach barely being able to handle it, causing him to wonder if he can stop them without eating them. Nami orders her homies to protect her as she releases a Weather Egg, and she tells Cracker that even though he is an Emperor's commander, Luffy is the man who will become Pirate King and his stomach is limitless. An exhausted Luffy contests Nami's last point, and Nami sends rain pouring down on the Biscuit Soldiers. Luffy reluctantly eats more of them as he remains intent on seeing Sanji.
Meanwhile at Sweet City, people are talking in shock about things they are seeing in their mirrors. As a woman applies lipstick in front of a mirror, she accidentally runs the lipstick across her face when she sees Chopper and Carrot running inside her mirror. Inside Brulee's Mirro-World, Brulee chases Chopper and Carrot with a scythe, and the two start to run out of energy.
In the Germa Kingdom, an aide reports to Judge that preparations are ready and now it is time to head for the Whole Cake Chateau. Meanwhile, Reiju puts a gelatinous mask on Sanji, saying it will sting for a bit. Sanji then receives a large shock from the mask, putting him in pain, but his swollen face is returned to normal. Reiju says that his face is still injured, but his current state will still be better for his meeting with Pudding. Even though Pudding's last name will not change upon marriage, Sanji will still be able to live a happy life with her if she likes him. Sanji gets angry, but Reiju reminds him that it was his choice to come back and that this was the extent of the help she would give him. Reiju then asks where Sanji got his chivalry from, and Sanji remembers back to his childhood on the Baratie. He and the other cooks were disappointed that Zeff refused to hire a female cook, and Zeff stated that he trained all of them through kicks, so he did not want to subject a woman to that. Sanji asked why Zeff would not just treat her like them, but an angry Zeff kicked him and shouted that men are not meant to kick women. Zeff said that he did not care how many times Sanji messed up as a human being, but if he messed up as a man, he was better off losing his manhood. Sanji wondered why Zeff would go that far, but Zeff replied that it was his duty as Sanji's parent, shocking Sanji. In response to Reiju's question, Sanji answers that he is just following the old laws of the universe. Sanji is then brought out to go to the Whole Cake Chateau for the gift exchange with Big Mom, and the Germa 66 soldiers cheer Sanji on as the Vinsmoke Family boards a carriage pulled by a large cat. Sanji sits in sullen silence in the back of the carriage between Niji and Yonji.
In the Seducing Woods, Luffy tells Cracker to give his Biscuit Soldiers a rest, saying that he could not eat anymore. Cracker is gleeful that Luffy has reached his limit, although Luffy is not willing to throw up the biscuits he ate. Cracker then rushes toward Luffy as he offers to help him by stabbing holes in his stomach and end the battle, but Luffy blows air into his muscles again. He expands even more as he reveals a new form of Gear 4: Tankman Full Version. Cracker is bemused by Luffy's new form and asks if he can even move. Cracker tries to stab Luffy with Pretzel, but the sword is absorbed into Luffy's body, confusing him. Cracker is then absorbed into Luffy's body, and Luffy tells Nami not to spray any water on the remaining Biscuit Soldiers. Luffy then pushes Cracker out of his body and sends him flying through the Biscuit Soldiers and into the distance, injuring the Sweet Commander.

Cracker is sent flying through his Biscuit Soldiers and several tree homies as he flies into Sweet City, crashing through a tower and causing the nearby citizens to run in fear. In the Whole Cake Chateau, a servant reports to Big Mom that two of the Three Sweet Commanders, Smoothie and Katakuri have reported in, and Big Mom wonders what is taking Cracker so long. Cracker crashes into the edge of the Chateau, and his siblings Charlotte Mont-d'Or, Charlotte Galette, and Charlotte Opera stare at him in shock. They realize that this was likely Luffy's doing, and declare a state of emergency and lockdown in Sweet City. Meanwhile, Pound emerges from his hiding spot and apologizes to Luffy for not having faith in him, having been convinced that he had no hope of victory. Nami tells him not to speak his mind all the time, and Luffy starts shrinking as he reveals that Gear 4 burns a lot of calories. Nami rejoices that they actually beat a Four Emperors commander, but gets annoyed at Pound for not joining in her celebration. Kingbaum reflects that he actually went against Big Mom due to her Vivre Card, which her children were forbidden from carrying around just for this reason, and he wonders in anger how Nami managed to get one as she admires it more.
However, Pound tells the pirates that they are in a very precarious position, as when Sweet Commander Snack was defeated, Cracker sent a fleet out to sea to take revenge, and Big Mom created a storm that manifested her rage, which allowed them to swiftly defeat the enemy. Pound reveals that Big Mom can control the weather by summoning the thunder cloud Zeus on her left hand and the sun Prometheus on her right. Nothing can stop her once she has reached that point, and so Pound begs the pirates to leave before Big Mom finds them. Luffy and Nami reflect on Sanji's departure and the steps they took to reach him, and Nami realizes that Sanji was supposed to head for the Whole Cake Chateau today; thus, they need to stop him from going inside. Luffy tells Kingbaum to take him to the Chateau.
As the Germa Kingdom carriage travels to the Whole Cake Chateau, the people around it wonder about the commotion going on in Sweet City. Meanwhile, Luffy and Nami ride Kingbaum out of the Seducing Woods, with Nami contacting Chopper through a mirror shard. Chopper tries to assure Nami, but keeps screaming and getting cut off, though he also says that Nami could not help them regardless. Carrot then attempts to reassure Nami as well, but also screams as the shard is shattered and the connection is cut off. Meanwhile, Luffy lies asleep as he continues shrinking, and he starts craving for meat. Baum then tells Nami that they are approaching Germa 66, and a servant reports to Judge that an unidentified object is heading toward them. Luffy leaps off of Baum and runs toward Sanji, shocking him and Yonji, and Nami calls out to Sanji as well, causing Yonji, Niji, and Ichiji to become lovestruck. Luffy leaps onto the carriage, causing it to tilt, and the Germa 66 guards order him away at once. Luffy prepares to rescue Sanji, but Sanji grows tense as he remembers the sheer power of their opponents and the threats made to both his crew and Zeff. He then kicks Luffy out of the carriage, shocking Nami, and he tells his crewmates to leave, calling them filthy and lowly sea thugs. Sanji says that his name is Vinsmoke Sanji and that he has embraced his life as a prince, not having told them due to not wanting to make them feel inferior. He says that he has chosen the obviously better option of marrying Pudding and tells them to leave, saying he does not even remember Luffy's name. However, Luffy does not believe any of Sanji's words, and Yonji tries to step in, but Sanji holds him back as he prepares to teach Luffy a lesson himself.

Still shocked at Sanji's words, Luffy asks Sanji to clarify what he means. Sanji states that he wants them to leave. He thanks them for their efforts to reach him, but says that their efforts are futile, as his family eagerly watches on. Sanji continues by comparing the size and wealth of Big Mom's crew to the Straw Hats', saying that it should be obvious which is the better choice for him. He voices that he's always doubted that someone like Luffy could become Pirate King, prompting Nami to tell him he's gone too far. When he responds by simply glaring at them, Nami is speechless, and Luffy asks the cook if their time together up until now has all been a lie. Sanji replies that it took them long enough to figure it out, and that it has been embarrassing being associated with them. He decides he needs to literally beat the truth into Luffy and prepares Diable Jambe, astonishing the onlooking Germa soldiers at the display of flames.
Realizing he's serious, Luffy braces himself as Sanji launches toward him. He lands a "Joue Shot" directly to Luffy's face, sending him flying away and causing him to lose a tooth. Luffy quickly recovers in mid-air, and lands on his feet to Sanji's surprise. Sanji again tells them to leave, and Luffy responds that he refuses to fight his cook. Sanji in turn tells him to just get out of his sight, which Luffy also refuses, earning him another kick to the face. Again Luffy quickly recovers, and gets back to his feet. As he rises, Sanji has a flashback of the moment Luffy first asked him to join the crew. Nami screams for Sanji to stop, explaining that they have only gone through all of this in order to bring him back, including fighting of the Big Mom's commanders all night. Luffy silences her however, saying that he's fine with whatever happens in this moment. Sanji questions this as he resumes his Diable Jambe-powered assault on Luffy, while the latter continues to not fight back. Luffy remains on his feet despite the blows, to Nami's horror. Sanji continues to insult Luffy and once again encourages them to leave, but Luffy does not budge. Rising into the air to prepare a final attack, Nami begs Sanji to stop, and says that they'll leave. Luffy however reaffirms that he isn't moving an inch, inspiring another flashback from Sanji of Luffy asking the cook to join his crew. Sanji lands a flame-powered "Concasser" right to Luffy's scalp, finally putting him down.
The onlooking Germa soldiers are impressed with Sanji's strength, convinced that he must have the Vinsmoke blood running through his veins. Sanji finally turns to get back to his carriage, but is stopped by Nami. She slaps Sanji hard across the face, and bids him a very angry farewell, calling him "Lord Sanji" now rather than her usual "Sanji-kun". Sanji is unable to look her in the eye, and Vinsmoke Judge comments that Sanji has finally severed his bonds as he returns to the carriage. As the carriage pulls off, Luffy gets back to his feet and yells that the cook isn't getting off that easy. He explains that he doesn't believe the chef for a second, and that he's never heard Sanji say something so fake. Sanji meanwhile palms his face, and shows an increasing amount of anguish at Luffy's words. Luffy continues to remind Sanji of all they've been through together, and that he should know this isn't enough to make him turn his back on his friend. Luffy was able to perceive that he wasn't actually the one feeling the pain the more and harder Sanji kicks, and Sanji finally breaks into tears at hearing this. Nami tries to dissuade Luffy by convincing him that Sanji has finally gone too far, but Luffy continues to call out for his chef. Reiju asks Sanji if they should stop again, but he tells them to keep moving as he has another flashback of when he first told Luffy about the All Blue. Luffy appeals that their adventures are still waiting for them, and finally states that he isn't budging an inch from his spot until Sanji comes back to him. He isn't willing to let the "best chef" walk away so easily, and will starve to death if he can't have another meal prepared by Sanji's hands. Niji and Yonji laugh at Sanji's anguish and tears, while Sanji again remembers his torture at his brother's hands. Luffy announces his hunger strike, and that he's not budging from that spot until Sanji comes back, as he can't become the Pirate King without him.

Right outside Sweet City, Nami asks Luffy if he really intends to stay put, reminding him of what Pound told them what Big Mom did the last time after a Sweet Commander was defeated. However, Luffy is intent on waiting for Sanji to return, and the pirates notice storm clouds approaching them. Kingbaum shrieks in terror and then reveals that Big Mom is infuriated, causing Nami to realize in shock that Big Mom really has the power to manipulate the weather like Pound said. In Sweet City, the citizens look up in awe as they see Zeus and Prometheus working together to create a thunderstorm, and as the Germa Kingdom carriage enters Sweet City, the citizens run to make room for the approaching Enraged Army. Inside the Germa Kingdom carriage, Niji and Yonji reflect excitedly that the Enraged Army is headed to kill Luffy, who will stand no chance against heavyweights like Bobbin, Amande, and Mont-d'Or, whose combined bounty is too high for them to count. They mockingly wonder if Luffy will really stay in one spot like he said once the Enraged Army arrives. Outside Sweet City, it begins to rain, and Nami realizes that the rain is sweetened. However, Luffy flips over onto his stomach, refusing to even consume that.
In the Whole Cake Chateau, Big Mom is called over by her daughter Anana, who complains that the head chef will not give her knives to mutilate her stuffed animal. Big Mom orders her sons Dolce and Dragee to get knives for Anana, but they do not want to do it since she often uses them to pop the balloons they hang onto. Another son begs Big Mom to not foster Anana's psychotic behavior, but Big Mom is fine with her murderous tendencies and tells her children to get along as she departs to meet the Vinsmoke Family, whom their sister Pudding is marrying into the next day. Big Mom enters the dining hall and takes a seat at the table with the Vinsmoke Family and Pudding. She expresses her excitement for the cementing of their alliance tomorrow, and Judge expresses his excitement for the wedding ceremony as well. Food and dish homies then come onto the table as the two families start to eat, and Pudding slides a note to Sanji which says they need to talk in private later.
Outside Sweet City, Nami and Kingbaum beg Luffy to run and hide as the Enraged Army approached them. However, Luffy continues refusing to move, even though Nami believes he has no chance of taking down the Army. Inside Pudding's room in the Whole Cake Chateau, Pudding apologizes to Sanji for putting his crewmates in a bad situation, although Sanji replies that he would not have met them at the coast. Pudding says that she would have taken the blame for Sanji going to the coast, saying that once Big Mom's exploding handcuffs were put on the arranged spouse, there is little chance of escape. Sanji states that only defeating Big Mom's entire crew could get him out of this now, and he has no allies to help him do that, as his family never really cared for him. Sanji pulls off his mask to reveal his beaten face, shocking Pudding. He continues, reflecting that all his friends would be in danger if he refused to get married, especially Zeff. Thus, after much consideration, he has decided to stop struggling due to having nowhere to run, in the hopes of sparing his crewmates from Big Mom's wrath. Pudding cries as she apologizes for the situation her mother puts Sanji in, but Sanji calms her, saying nothing is her fault. He then tells her that his dream at this point is to cut himself off from the people he had associated with for the past 13 years after he had escaped from his horrible family life, keeping them safe as his adventure ends. Pudding continues crying as she loudly states that she will not let their marriage become bad like his family life. Sanji does not respond, causing Pudding to grow flustered and backtrack. As Luffy begins fighting the Enraged Army, Pudding apologizes for not thinking about Sanji's views on the wedding, but he stops her as he embraces her, revealing that he is ready to get married tomorrow.

In the outskirts of Sweet City, amidst the bodies of the Chess Soldiers, Galette holds Nami in place with a fluid substance. Galette expresses her surprise that Nami was able to summon a large lightning bolt, and Nami said that she could do it because of the thunderclouds made by Big Mom. Meanwhile, Amande pulls out her Meito, Shirauo, on Kingbaum. The tree homie begs her to spare him, as he did not willingly betray Big Mom, but Amande slowly bisects him vertically. Kingbaum cries from the pain, and Amande states that she wants his death to have meaning by being as painful as possible. Meanwhile, Mont-d'Or stands on two levitating books, praising Luffy who can crush the army right after he defeated Cracker. As Luffy fights through more chess soldiers, Opera attacks him with a mass of cream, increasing its "sweetness" to burn Luffy's arm.
Luffy activates Gear 3 and charges at Opera, but he suddenly finds himself inside another location, where nothing is orderly. Mont-d'Or then appears from a wall, revealing that Luffy is in the "World of Books". Luffy then sees Amande approaching Nami inside a cage, and Nami warns him to dodge. Suddenly, a book closes over Luffy's head, returning him to the real world, and Luffy is punched from both the back and the front by Charlotte Counter and Charlotte Cadenza. Luffy falls to the ground, and the two halves of Kingbaum fall as well. Amande then approaches Nami as she tears her dress, removing Lola's Vivre Card from her bra. Galette understands that this card was the reason the Straw Hats overpowered the Chess Soldiers and escaped from the Seducing Woods. Amande sees the word "Lola" on the card, and the Big Mom Pirates start worrying that the Straw Hats killed Lola to get the card. Nami tries to explain that Lola is their friend, but the Big Mom Pirates decide to report this to Big Mom, taking the captive Straw Hats with them. Luffy hangs onto the ground as he is pulled away, refusing to leave his spot, but Counter stomps on his head.
In the Whole Cake Chateau, Big Mom agrees to a request Sanji made, shocking him. She agrees to let the Straw Hat Pirates leave the island alive as long as Sanji goes through the wedding without a fuss, saying that she is a reasonable woman. Sanji thanks Big Mom, and she reminds him of how much the Straw Hats have gone against her, though she is willing to forgive it as her top priority is overseeing the marriage and completing the alliance with Germa 66.
Inside the Room of Treasure in the Whole Cake Chateau, Tamago oversees the three poneglyphs they had in possession, and reflects that of the approximate 30 that exist, there are only nine they need that will allow them to reach Laugh Tale and uncover the secrets of the world. Meanwhile, Sweet Commander Charlotte Smoothie squeezes another person, squeezing juice out of them and drinking it. Smoothie asks why increased protection from her is needed, but is willing to do it regardless. Tamago reveals that Pedro has returned for the first time in five years after Pekoms spared his life, and so now they must do all they can to protect their Road Poneglyph from him. Brook's detached soul listens from afar, and returns to the alcohol room nearby where he and Pedro are hiding. Brook reveals to Pedro that a Sweet Commander is guarding the poneglyphs, causing Pedro to grow worried about their rapidly decreasing chances of success. However, Brook replies that there is no way to leave and come back later with the entire crew, as they would most certainly be fought upon their return. Brook asks who Tamago's target was, and Pedro affirms that it is him. Brook then asks Pedro to be the bait in their operation, which is exactly what Pedro was thinking.

In Brulee's house in the Mirro-World, Carrot cries for help as Brulee lowers her into a hot cauldron. The homies nearby look forward to eating rabbit mink meat, and a chained-up Chopper retorts that Carrot does not even taste like rabbit. Brulee quiets him, saying he would join Big Mom's collection of strange beasts. However, since Chopper is in Heavy Point, he knows he can escape from his chains simply by transforming, and can also use Monster Point again if needed. As Carrot gets closer to the cooking pot, Chopper prepares to take the chance to escape and fight.
Meanwhile, Big Mom takes the Vinsmoke Family (minus Sanji) to the library in the Whole Cake Chateau. She opens a very large book, revealing a manticore that had escaped from Impel Down two years ago inside a page. She then shows them a unicorn, and the Vinsmokes are intrigued to see living creatures within the pages of a book. Big Mom reveals that the library is full of a large range of creatures that never age, kept within books by her son Mont-d'Or's ability. She says that her most recent additions include a centaur from Punk Hazard, a griffin from the South Blue, and a longarm-longleg hybrid known as a longlimb human. Niji is shocked that she keeps humans in the books as well, and Judge notes to Big Mom the large diversity he has seen in Totto Land. However, he says that he has not seen any giants, and Big Mom's expression turns sour and angry, but she quickly returns to her normal self and replies that he probably just missed them. A servant then reports to Big Mom that they have brought the two she asked for, and Big Mom takes her leave from the Vinsmokes. She asks her servant why he is acting nervous, and he expresses his admiration for the Vinsmokes, and Big Mom tells him to be quiet and not place so much worth on what is on the outside.
Meanwhile, in the Prisoner Library, Mont-d'Or, Bobbin, Perospero, Opera, and Galette turn a book to page 55, where Luffy and Nami are being kept in a cell. Big Mom's Den Den Mushi is then placed in front of the two Straw Hats, and Luffy shouts at her to let him go. Big Mom laughs at his liveliness and says that she thought he had broken his promise to battle her due to not bringing his entire crew. Luffy replies that he still intends to fulfill that promise, but now he is just here to get Sanji back, though he would still fight Big Mom if she showed up. Big Mom and her subordinates outside laugh at the statement, with Big Mom telling Luffy that he was nothing compared to her and that she could have him killed without even needing to show up. Big Mom says that if they give up on rescuing Sanji, she will free them once the wedding is complete, as the wedding is the most important thing to her right now. However, she tells the Straw Hats that if they interfere with her plans, they should get ready to see hell. Big Mom recalls the time Luffy ate her candy on Fish-Man Island and gave her treasure in return, revealing to him that a legendary treasure box known as the Tamatebako was a part of it. Big Mom wonders why Fish-Man Island gave away a national treasure, but has taken such a liking to the box that she will forgive the Fish-Man Island incident altogether and open the Tamatebako in front of everyone during the wedding ceremony.
Luffy shouts at her to be quiet, saying the wedding would not happen and asking to speak to his friend Pudding. Big Mom laughs incredulously about the Straw Hats being friends with the bride-to-be, and asks Nami if she really killed Lola like she had heard. Nami vehemently denies it, saying that they were friends with Lola and she had given them Big Mom's Vivre Card, having told them to tell Big Mom she was well and that the Vivre Card would cause Big Mom to help them out. However, Big Mom quiets Nami in a fit of rage, saying in great anger that she would like very much for Lola to be dead and will send hired assassins after her if Nami reveals her location. Big Mom reveals that Lola ran away from her most crucial political marriage of all time, and that she would never forgive her. Nami is shocked as she remembers meeting Lola on Thriller Bark and how Lola wanted to marry every man she met, and Big Mom shouts that were it not for Lola's rebellion, she would have gained enough power to defeat Kaidou, Shanks, and even Whitebeard and become the Pirate King. Big Mom says that she will get Lola's location out of Nami eventually, but Luffy shouts that her story is boring, saying that Lola did not need to be a pawn in Big Mom's rise to power. He challenges the Emperor again, saying he would get Sanji back and defeat her in the end.
Meanwhile, inside a guest room, Sanji sits on a windowsill with his head in his hands, hoping his crewmates stay safe and do not do anything rash. Inside the Room of Treasure, Tamago and a Chess Soldier race to intercept Pedro, who is causing trouble out in the open. While Pedro distracts everyone, Brook prepares to give a special live concert.

Big Mom's Den Den Mushi hangs up, and Bobbin, Perospero, Mont-d'Or, Galette, and Opera laugh at Luffy's provocation of Big Mom. However, Luffy is still adamant in his defiance. Anglais then rides in to the Prisoner Library, reporting that there is an intruder in the Room of Treasure. In the Queen's Room, Zeus asked Big Mom if Luffy's actions have made her mad, but she happily denies it, saying she is too excited about getting her hands on Germa 66, the Tamatebako, and some wedding cake tomorrow to be angered by meager threats. Big Mom's hat then receives a signal, and reports that an intruder is making a ruckus near the Room of Treasure. This angers Big Mom, who asks who it is and wonders if they are after her Tamatebako. Inside a guest room, Sanji paces around, trying his hardest to accept the marriage as it would prevent his friends from being killed. He knows his anxiety would cause Pudding to become unhappy, and so tries to focus on his love for Pudding and his desire to make her happy. Inside Pudding's room, she departs from an attendant who is in the midst of revealing to her that Nami possessed Lola's Vivre Card. The attendant then tells her that Big Mom did not approve of the wedding dress she selected and picked one for her, and had planned out everything that needs to happen after the ceremony. Pudding remembers her mother calling her a doll and taking control of the wedding preparations, saying her daughter would be fine if she obeyed her orders. Pudding stepped into the balcony while it was still raining, despite her attendant's pleas, and she remembers Lola departing from Whole Cake Island several years ago. Lola had assured her that Big Mom would not kill her since they were family, and she would decide her own marriage.
Within the halls of the Whole Cake Chateau, Pedro races through them as Big Mom's soldiers report that the security in the Room of Treasure has been wiped out and that Pedro is in possession of a bomb. Pedro races to meet the soldiers, and he cuts them down without losing his speed. He then leaps onto the wall, running on it as the soldiers shoot at him. Pedro then throws his bomb at them, causing a large explosion as he drops back down to the floor. Tamago keeps tabs on Pedro's path, planning to trap him in the garden, when he is contacted by Charlotte Smoothie. Smoothie reveals that Tamago was right and there is a second intruder, with Pedro acting as a decoy. The second intruder had sneaked into the Room of Treasure and locked them out, but since there is only one door to the room, they can wait and kill him once he gets outside. However, Tamago states that since the second intruder is just a skeleton, Smoothie needs to capture him alive in order for him to be put in Big Mom's collection. Meanwhile, Brook stands inside the Room of Treasure, commending Pedro for taking out much of the security. One of the guards looks in awe at Brook's strange appearance, and the Chess Soldiers attack, intent on getting him to Big Mom. Brook notes that the Chess Soldiers are all homies and so act based on what their soul tells them, and as he clashes with the soldiers, he plays the guitar and his soul flares up, causing the soldiers to collapse, unable to withstand the power of his soul.
Meanwhile, Pudding enters the Prisoner Library, and she asks Opera to let her into Luffy and Nami's prison cell. A Chess Soldier inserts a bookmark, allowing Pudding to enter Luffy and Nami's cell, and Luffy tells her that they went to the coast she told them to go to. Pudding apologizes to the two for letting her siblings attack them, and for failing to make it to the coast. As Sanji picks flowers, Pudding reveals that he proposed to her, but she knows it is because he is kind and it is her fault for it. She says she will not marry Sanji before whispering something to Luffy and Nami, which shocks them. Luffy shouts at Pudding, but she steps away from the book in tears before telling them goodbye.

Inside the Vinsmoke Family's guest room, Yonji wonders where Reiju is before asking Judge where Sanji and Pudding will live after the marriage ceremony. Judge replies that they will live in Germa Kingdom in order to put Pudding under their power, as he believed that Big Mom, as a pirate, may try to take advantage of them afterwards. Niji wonders if Big Mom is planning the same tactic, but Ichiji reminds him that they do not care what happens to Sanji, causing Niji to laugh and look forward to living with his brother again.
Inside Brulee's house in the Mirro-World, Brulee prepares to begin cooking Carrot in a soup, much to the delight of the various hungry people in her house. However, Chopper notes that Brulee is basically digging her own grave, as the Carrot hanging over the soup pot is actually a frog that Brulee transformed into Carrot using her powers. The real Carrot is in the attic, and she stands directly over the pot, crying for help to trick Brulee's crowd and to mask the frog sounds her double is making. Chopper notes that of the 16 people in Brulee's house, the most troublesome looking ones appear to be Brulee herself, Randolph, the Noble Croc, and a mysterious man called Diesel. As Randolph prepares to cut the rope holding Carrot's double over the pot, Carrot throws a rock at him from the attic, successfully knocking him over. Brulee is confused and angry at Randolph, and Diesel suddenly alerts her to an intruder in the attic. They then see Carrot hanging onto her double over the pot, and Carrot kicks the pot at Brulee, sending the boiling liquid inside crashing down on her.
While the house falls into chaos, Chopper activates Brain Point and becomes small again, allowing him to free himself from his chains before eating a Rumble Ball. Randolph and several others race to help Brulee, but Carrot creates a ball of electricity with Electro before slamming it into the ground, electrocuting all of them. Chopper then activates Monster Point right behind the Noble Croc, and as the Noble Croc looks around to find the source of the noise, Chopper grabs him by the tail and flips him over, sending him slamming backfirst into several of Brulee's guests and knocking himself and them out. With Brulee, Randolph, and the Noble Croc defeated, a shocked Diesel runs away in order to report this to Big Mom. He mocks Chopper and Carrot, saying they could not catch up to him, but Carrot easily catches up to him and bites him in the shoulder before covering his eyes, causing him to crash. Carrot and Chopper celebrate their victory over Brulee's team, and prepare to travel through the island's mirrors in order to find their allies.
In Sanji's room, Eggplant Soldier reports to him that Luffy and Nami are currently imprisoned while Pedro and Brook are on a rampage. However, Sanji cuts him off and asks to have the food that he requested. Sanji prepares to cook some food for Pudding since she never ate lunch, and the servant understands, stating that she is still under the weather. In the Room of Treasure, Brook discovers the key to unlock the cage containing the poneglyphs, and one remaining security guard angrily attacks him, reprimanding him for causing such a mess. However, Brook cuts him and another guard down as he replies that that is good, as since Pedro is out risking his life for him he feels obligated to thoroughly succeed in his mission. As Brook enters the cage with the poneglyphs, Big Mom approaches Smoothie and the others outside of the Room of Treasure, telling her daughter to get out of the way. She then bursts through the door of the Room of Treasure and angrily confronts the terrified Brook, but she immediately takes an interest in his unique body. Meanwhile, Big Mom's forces chase Pedro into the Chateau courtyard, surrounding him. From the other side, Tamago greets his old acquaintance Pedro, the captain of the Nox Pirates, and wonders why he, who had craved life so much when he was here five years ago, was making the same mistake again. As Pedro removes his cap and Tamago removes his sunglasses, revealing that they both have injured left eyes, Tamago questions Pedro's decision to return in light of the fact that Big Mom took away 50 years of his lifespan five years ago, leaving him with little time to live. However, Pedro replies that he is aware of this, and that he has no intention to return to Zou alive.
Meanwhile, a heavily injured Reiju struggles to move down a hallway.

Chopper and Carrot race through the Mirro-World, peeking into various mirrors around Sweet City. They are only able to find citizens, who are frightened to see them in their mirrors, especially when the two peek into bathrooms. Inside the Mirro-World, they ride on a cart pulled by Diesel, and try to wake Charlotte Brulee up in order to find the Whole Cake Chateau. Chopper states that they can travel in and out of the mirrors as long as they are in contact with Brulee, and so it should be easy to enter the castle and reunite with Luffy and Nami once they reach it.
Inside Sanji's guestroom, he curses at the low quality of the bento he made for Pudding. He decides to just eat the leftovers, and gleefully imagines interacting romantically with Pudding. He rushes out with the bento and a bouquet of flowers, and Eggplant Soldier asks if he is going on a walk. Sanji replies that he is going to receive some healing power from his only ray of light, confusing the servant.
In the Prisoner Library, Nami tells Luffy to stop as he pulls at the stake binding his arms to the cell and twists himself around, with Opera calling it pointless struggling. Nami says that Luffy will tear his hands off if he continues struggling, and Luffy replies that that is the point, as they needed to get out and he would rather lose his hands than die here. He says that he does not want his life to end by him staying here, waiting for help, before eventually being killed by Big Mom, and tells Nami to rip her hands off too, which she vehemently refuses. Luffy says he will help her afterwards, and continues struggling despite Nami's cries.
In the third floor courtyard, Pedro and Tamago begin their clash. As they battle, Pedro remembers him and his former crewmate Zepo discovering five years ago that Pekoms had joined the Big Mom Pirates, and in the present, he and Tamago both say that the other will not emerge from this battle with just the loss of an eye. As they clash swords, Pedro remembers standing before a roulette wheel five years ago, with Zepo having spun it to the 100 years of life option. However, he only had 30 years left to live, so Big Mom killed him and still had 70 years to take from the grieving Pedro. In the present, Tamago states that not only does he have better range than Pedro, but he is also wearing tights that prevent him from being affected by Electro. Five years ago, Pekoms had tearfully begged for Pedro's life, and Big Mom decided to be lenient and only take 60 years in retribution for Pedro taking Tamago's eye. However, Pedro took out his left eye, stating that he needed to return to his country and watch the dawn of the world. Impressed, Big Mom decided to only take 50 years, allowing Pedro to continue living. In the present, Tamago kicks Pedro in the face, sending him flying back, and he asks Pedro again why he returned to the country where he lost nearly everything. Pedro replies that the Straw Hats had saved his country, and so he believes they are the ones who will cause the world to enter its dawn, and will likely even surpass people like the two of them. Pedro is fine with throwing away the remainder of his life like this, but has no intention to die right here and right now, only wanting to go once the Straw Hats had achieved their goals. He then races past Tamago and bisects him in the torso, causing a giant yolk to fly out.
Meanwhile, Sanji attempts to enter Pudding's room, but the door homie refuses to let him in. Sanji recalls that Pudding's room has a balcony, and so he goes to it. He plans to hand her the meal and flowers through the window, and is initially conflicted about violating her privacy, but goes forth anyways. Sanji hears Pudding laugh, and as he looks in the window he sees her talking to someone. He sees in shock that she is talking to Reiju, and wonders why his sister is here. He then watches as Pudding laughs hysterically, revealing a third eye on her forehead and stating gleefully that she would never marry Sanji. Pudding says that Big Mom dotes on her because of her acting skill, and although she was tired of the pampering, she readily agreed to trick Sanji and the Straw Hats into believing that she was in love with him. Inside the Prisoner Library, Luffy curses Pudding as he remembers what she whispered to them when she visited. She had told them that Sanji, who she called an idiot, was going to be shot by her during the wedding on the next day. Inside Pudding's room, she mocks Reiju and her family for agreeing to this deal, saying Big Mom's goal is to get her hands on the Vinsmokes' clone army. Reiju sarcastically says that Pudding has a beautiful personality, but Pudding ignores her and states that they have lured the Germa Kingdom right here to trap them like flies. Sanji sits outside, shell-shocked, as Pudding reveals that tomorrow, they planned to massacre the entire Vinsmoke Family.

Pudding continues laughing about the planned massacre of the Vinsmoke Family, saying their blood will stain the ceremony hall, although she warns Reiju to be careful and not get any blood on the wedding cake, or else Big Mom will get mad and destroy the ceremony hall. Pudding pulls out a Walker .36 Caliber Percussion Revolver which she will use to shoot the Vinsmokes, and she reveals that it is loaded with Candy Jacket bullets that can penetrate armor, meaning that it can also go through the Vinsmokes' iron outer skeletons. Pudding looks forward to seeing Sanji's expression when she pulls the gun on him tomorrow, and Nitro and Rabiyan laugh with glee. Pudding makes a few shocked faces to mockingly predict how Sanji will react, and then asks Reiju if she wants to know how Sanji proposed to her today. Pudding mocks Sanji's injured face that was under his mask, and mockingly reenacts his proposal, calling it cheesy. She calls Sanji ugly and a failure, saying that at least she wanted a proper prince. Outside, Sanji tries lighting a cigarette, but the rain prevents it and tears start streaming down his face.
In the Room of Treasure, Big Mom asks Brook why is he getting up again, wondering why is he going after her Road Poneglyph and not after Sanji. As Brook struggles to get back to his feet, he replies that since Sanji is a kind person, he knows that his crewmate will likely sacrifice himself and not get rescued for the sake of others. As he stands before Big Mom, who has Zeus on her left hand and Prometheus on her right, he says that on the other hand, Luffy is someone who will break through any barrier to achieve his dreams, so Sanji's situation should be decided just by those two. Big Mom infers that Brook is then here because he has nothing better to do, but Brook replies that his mission is just as important. Should they fail to rescue Sanji, they can at least honor him by acquiring the Road Poneglyph and making this journey worth something. Big Mom retorts that losing Sanji is not the worst that could happen to them, as they could easily die on this journey. However, Brook says that death should never be considered when making a plan, calling Big Mom "young lady" as he raises his sword.
In the Mirro-World, Carrot manages to revive Brulee by tickling her, and Brulee finally gives in to the duo's demands. Carrot asks her where the castle is, and after she swears revenge under her breath, Brulee states that she does not remember and tells them to just ask the mirrors. Carrot and Chopper ask which mirrors lead to the castle, and the mirrors that do respond to them. Chopper asks if any of them are reflecting Luffy, Nami, Brook, Pedro, or Sanji, but none of the mirrors know who they are with the exception of one, whom Sanji had just passed by. However, Carrot tells Chopper to leave it to her, as she claims to be skilled at drawing and plans to draw portraits of their teammates.
Back in Pudding's room, in order to prevent Reiju from dying of blood loss or revealing her plans, Pudding reaches into the side of Reiju's head. Her hand penetrates Reiju's head, and pulls out a strip of film containing Reiju's memories. Pudding reveals that she ate the Memo Memo no Mi, which allows her to turn people's memories into film strips and alter them. She then cuts out Reiju's memories of their encounter and replaces them with a soldier's memory of being hit by a stray bullet, in order for Reiju to explain how she was shot. Pudding then dons her sweet persona as she hopes they both have a good time at the wedding ceremony, and she calls a soldier to take Reiju to the infirmary.
Inside the Prisoner Library, Opera watches as Luffy continues pulling at his stake, and Nami continues crying out as more blood comes from Luffy's wrists. Opera then tells Nami that Big Mom ordered him to get Lola's location from her by the end of the day, but Nami refuses to sell out one of her friends. Opera then prepares to torture Nami by shooting her with a crossbow once every five seconds until she confesses, and a frightened Nami begs him to stop the escalated threats. Luffy shouts at Opera to stop, and tells Nami that he will have ripped his hands off in the next five seconds, which Nami does not want to happen either. Luffy and Opera both tell Nami to stop being so difficult, when someone suddenly enters the Prisoner Library. Opera tells the intruder that he is not allowed to enter castle grounds at the moment, but the intruder simply apologizes before preparing a punch. The intruder, Jinbe, then punches Opera in the stomach with great force, causing him to skid onto the ground in shock. Luffy, Nami, and Opera are all bewildered to see Jinbe, and the former two wonder why is he here. Jinbe replies that he heard the two of them were captured, and they can talk later, but now he is preparing to free them.

On Whole Cake Island, inside the Chateau infirmary, a doctor and a homie guard both comment on Reiju's incredible enhanced healing ability. As they talk, Sanji sneaks in undetected and ties and blindfolds the homie to a chair. Reiju then wakes, noticing Sanji's presence with surprise. She also inspects her injured leg while recalling foggily that she had been caught in a supposed crossfire. Sanji tells her that her memory has been overwritten, and proceeds to tell her what really happened.
In the Prisoner's Library, Jinbe burns the book imprisoning Luffy and Nami, in order to free them. Nami thanks Jinbe, but wonders why he is on the island. Jinbe explains that his Sun Pirates are subordinate to Big Mom's crew. Nami points out the knocked out Charlotte Opera, and comments with concern that his actions constitute rebellion, and Jinbe affirms that there's no going back now. He tells Luffy and Nami that they have to hide somewhere where they won't be found, while Luffy complains about being hungry. Jinbe wonders how Luffy can be worrying about his stomach at a time like this, but Luffy interjects that he didn't ask for any food. Luffy recalls Pudding's words and tells Jinbe to look after Nami, before running off to find and warn Sanji.
In the infirmary, Reiju tells Sanji that she believes his version of events as she had been investigating Pudding due to finding her suspicious. Sanji proceeds to bemoan his belief that his own sacrifice would secure the safety of his crew, as Reiju notes on how Judge underestimated Big Mom before stating that they should not stand in the way of the planned assassinations. A shocked Sanji objects immediately, not wanting Reiju to die, but a touched Reiju responds that Sanji owes her nothing for helping him escape the Germa Kingdom 13 years ago. She urges Sanji to escape Whole Cake Island as soon as possible, and to worry about protecting the Baratie once he is safely away.
Before Sanji can object further, Reiju divulges to him one of her strongest childhood memories. She recalls a fight between their father and mother, during which their mother refused to undergo the surgery which would transform their soon-to-be-born sons into emotionless machines. While she was ultimately unable to refuse the surgery, she secretly took a drug that counteracted (in part) the effects of the Lineage Factor manipulation surgery. The drug led to a sudden deterioration in her health, and did nothing to prevent the surgery's successful modification of Ichiji, Niji and Yonji. However, the scientists monitoring the Vinsmoke brothers began observing behaviors in Sanji that revealed that his modification had been unsuccessful. While Judge blamed Sanji for the drug's success, Sora cherished Sanji's displays of kindness, crying in happiness as she told Reiju and Eponi about Sanji's actions. After listening, a horrified Sanji begins to state that their mother's death was his fault, but Reiju overrides him and tells him that their mother was happy from the bottom of her heart, and did not regret a thing. Reiju continues by stating that Sanji cannot be a failure, and that he is in fact kinder than anyone, leaving Sanji speechless.
On the second floor of the Chateau, Luffy has taken hold of one of Big Mom's subordinates and is strangling him, trying to elicit Sanji's whereabouts. At the same time, in the Hall of Treasures, Charlotte Smoothie learns of Jinbe's rebellion and orders all homies and soldiers to seal off the fourth floor. Smoothie warns the soldiers not to inform Big Mom of the chaos inside the Chateau, and gives them permission to kill the rebels if necessary.
Back inside the infirmary, Reiju encourages Sanji to forget about Germa and leave. She reflects that Germa is nothing but a war machine that the world can do without, and that the Vinsmokes are a family of murderers that deserve death. Sanji continues his objections to Reiju's proposed self-sacrifice, but Reiju explains that she cannot disobey their father's commands. With Luffy fast approaching and leaving a trail of destruction behind him, Reiju states that she believes the Baratie is under no threat from Big Mom and (further) reveals that Sanji's handcuffs are fakes she had switched out with the real pair. Reiju concludes by telling Sanji forcefully to consider what was most important in his life; in particular, she emphasizes that he will never again meet people as amazing the ones he has now, for as long as he lives.

In the Treasure Room, Big Mom has captured Brook and begun petting his head, much to his embarrassment and mortification. She marvels at how Brook is a living skeleton and praises him for instilling such fear into her chess soldiers, but tells him that he will not be able to defeat the three homies infused with parts of her own soul: Napoleon the bicorne, Zeus the thundercloud, and Prometheus the sun. As they talk, the chess soldiers declare that they have finished their investigation: there is nothing in Brook's clothes or the cylinder, and they conclude that he did not steal anything. Big Mom laughs and apologizes to Brook for suspecting him, but remarks that she would never let anyone steal her Tamatebako or rubbings of her poneglyphs. She adds that she would look foolish if someone made off with those things and got to Laugh Tale before her a second time, remarking how letting Roger get by was a mistake. She affirms her understanding that Roger used his ability to hear "The Voice of All Things" to somehow decipher the poneglyph, but adds that she possesses someone else who will awaken the same power one day and allow her to be the next to reach Laugh Tale.
As her mother finishes her explanation, Pudding enters the Treasure Room. Mama laughs since she was just talking about her daughter, and asks if her third eye managed to achieve true opening. An annoyed Pudding replies that her power is all her mother ever talks about, and reminds Big Mom that she is a half-breed, meaning there is no guarantee that she will ever be able to awaken her third eye. Big Mom laughs and apologizes, but is positive in her assertion that Pudding has the blood of the Three-Eye Tribe in her veins. Brook makes a mental note about Pudding's heritage while Pudding is surprised to see that he has made it this far. Pudding then asks her mother if they could talk in private.
On the third floor courtyard, Pedro is battling Viscount Hyoko. Pedro manages to slash through him, causing his body to break like an egg. The onlookers declare in shock that the next form will be Count Niwatori. An onlooking soldier states that he goes from Baron Tamago, to Viscount Hyoko, to Count Niwatori, the latter being his most powerful form. Pedro is impatient and does not feel like waiting around for Count Niwatori. He pulls out a string of explosives, saying that a cluster of soldiers makes for a great distraction. As the explosives detonate, a shocked Pedro is saved by Carrot and Chopper, who pulled him just in time into the Mirro-World. Chopper explains how the Mirro-World is accessible only by physical contact with Brulee, before asking Pedro for an update on the others' situations. Chopper is shocked to learn that Luffy and Nami were captured, and worries at the same time about Brook. Carrot holds up a highly stylized mural of Luffy, Nami, Sanji, Brook, and Pedro, and asks the mirrors to tell her where they are. Two mirrors respond that Nami has escaped and is with Jinbe.
Elsewhere on the third floor, Luffy is being pursued by soldiers as he continues his search for Sanji and the request to send all ministers as reinforcements has been sent. As he passes the infirmary, Reiju secretly grabs hold of his arm and pulls him forcefully into the room, before closing the door behind her to hide him from his pursuers. Luffy recognizes Reiju and asks her what she is doing, and Reiju informs Luffy that Sanji was at the infirmary until only a moment ago. Luffy hurriedly tells her about Pudding's nefarious plans before spotting Reiju's bandaged leg and asking her if she was okay. An amused Reiju replies that she is fine and informs Luffy that her brother is already aware of the situation; however, his continuing concern for the Baratie hostages and the Straw Hats compelled him to remain on the island. After learning that Sanji was aware of the situation, a relieved Luffy thanked Reiju for bringing him up to speed and, much to Reiju's shock, jumped out the infirmary window. After landing on a citizen's house, Luffy declares that he will wait for Sanji at the place he promised to be.
Elsewhere in the Chateau, a solitary Sanji is reflecting on everything that has happened. He arrives at the conclusion that there is no going back.

Big Mom's forces chase after Jinbe and Nami, intent on surrounding and trapping them. They then recognize Jinbe with a shock and realize that he is rebelling, and Jinbe asks Nami to take care of the soldiers chasing them from behind. As Jinbe races toward the forces heading to them from the front, Nami uses Thundercloud Rod to shock the ones behind them. However, she accidentally shocks Chopper, who had emerged from a nearby mirror in order to rescue them. Nami and Jinbe enter the Mirro-World, where they reunite with Chopper, Carrot, and Pedro. Brulee sees Jinbe and realizes he has rebelled against them, having heard earlier that he had backed out of facing Big Mom's roulette while trying to quit the crew. Jinbe affirms this, saying that the wheel would have brought nothing more than death and ill will, and Pedro states that he made the right choice, as his comrade spun the wheel five years ago and had his entire lifespan removed. Brulee laughed and stated that that was the point, as Big Mom does not let people leave Totto Land alive. However, she is interrupted as the Sanji Retrieval Team boards the carriage to look for Luffy, Brook, and Sanji, though Diesel is barely able to pull such a heavy load.
In the Queen's Chambers, Prometheus puts a bandage on a wound that it received from Brook after the wound became deeper, upset by the pain. Big Mom commends Brook for managing to give her top homies their first injuries, and Pudding asks if she is going to continue carrying Brook around. Brook is surprised by Pudding's bluntness, and Big Mom states that since she is mesmerized with Brook she will carry him around instead of putting him in the museum for the time being, and Brook is appalled by his new fate. Big Mom then commends the rest of the Straw Hats for making it through the Seducing Woods and ending up in the Prisoner Library, and Pudding asks if Big Mom is going to kill them after the ceremony, which she affirms, shocking Brook. Big Mom states that the Vinsmoke Family is likely intoxicated after she sent barmaids to them, and Pudding reveals that Reiju went sneaking around, but she dealt with her. Big Mom shows concern about the encounter, warning her daughter that an encounter that goes wrong could jeopardize the wedding, but Pudding reveals that she did get to test her gun out on the Vinsmokes' bodies, which blows through them. Big Mom laughs and gleefully plans out the wedding assassination. When Sanji lifts Pudding's veil, he will see her third eye and falter, allowing her to shoot him through the head, giving the Big Mom Pirates the signal to commence the attack. Before the Vinsmokes will be able to react, they will face countless numbers of guns pointed at them, and their blood will stain the floors as gunshots ring out all over the room. The Big Mom Pirates will then begin the real celebration, eating cake and black tea as they gain control over Germa 66.
Meanwhile, a Chess Soldier peeks into Sanji's room, reports that Sanji is indeed sleeping in there, and receives orders to not let anyone in or out of there. However, the one actually in the bed is Eggplant Soldier, and he wakes up in shock that he fell asleep in Sanji's bed. However, since Sanji is not back yet, he decides to get a bit more sleep. In the meeting room on the second floor, Mont-d'Or goes over the Sanji Retrieval Team's statuses, knowing that Pekoms was with them until they entered Totto Land and that Pudding led six people to Whole Cake Island. Brook is currently in Big Mom's hands, and Mont-d'Or confirms with Count Niwatori, who survived Pedro's explosion, that Pedro blew himself up. They had received a report from Brulee that she had captured Chopper and Carrot, and now the only outstanding problems are Luffy and Nami. The two of them were supposedly imprisoned, but Mont-d'Or had heard rumors that they had escaped, and confronts Opera as to why this and rumors about Jinbe's appearance have circulated around. Opera vehemently denies the rumors, saying he never saw Jinbe and that he burned Luffy and Nami to death due to them not having any information on Lola. As he says this, Opera notes in his mind that there is no way he could say the rumors are true, as Big Mom would definitely punish him by removing his lifespan. Mont-d'Or reluctantly decides to cross out Luffy and Nami as well, and asks about the whereabouts of the Vinsmoke Family, to which he receives confirmation that they are in their rooms. Mont-d'Or then adjourns the meeting, happily stating that the intruders are gone and their goal now is to prepare for the wedding to make it as good as possible. However, he tells the Chess Soldiers afterwards to continue keeping watch, as he does not trust Opera.
In the third floor infirmary, Reiju looks out of a window at Sweet City, where a weak Luffy is stumbling to the spot where he agreed to meet Sanji. Inside the Chateau, Sanji sits on a bench as he considers the basket of bento he prepared for Pudding, reflecting that it was surprising he made this for Pudding since it contained all his crewmates' favorite foods. Sanji accepts his oncoming death at the wedding tomorrow, thinking that it was for the best since Germa would be exterminated and Big Mom would be happy, giving his crewmates their best chance to escape. Bobbin then approaches Sanji, surprised that the latter is not in his room as he takes out a piece of meat from Sanji's basket. However, Sanji remembers Luffy's declaration that he would not eat anything until Sanji fed him again, and he kicks Bobbin over the head, saying the meat was not for him. Bobbin slams into the wall, and Sanji reclaims the meat he made as some of the guards race toward the disturbance. A bewildered Bobbin asks what Sanji is doing, causing a shocked Sanji to give himself a mental shake before running off with the bento basket in hand.

After hearing the commotion caused by Sanji's attack, some of Bobbin's subordinates race toward his location. However, Bobbin bounces his head around, causing them to fall asleep. He tells them that there is nothing to worry about and that he will deal with the situation himself, before breaking off into a sprint as he says that even demons come to Big Mom's tea parties.
Inside the Mirro-World, Nami, Chopper, Carrot, Pedro and Jinbe locate a mirror inside Big Mom's bedroom. After spotting her asleep, with a snoozing Brook in her hands and Zeus, Prometheus, and Napoleon asleep around her, the team ponder how to rescue Brook. Brulee screams out for Big Mom to save her, causing the team to bind and gag her and Diesel, but Big Mom does not notice. Instead, half-asleep, she only notices a fly buzzing around her room, and smacks the fly into the ground with extreme force before falling back asleep. The noise wakes Brook, but he goes back to sleep when he sees that it was just a fly. Zeus, Prometheus, and Napoleon also wake, and, believing that Big Mom was being attacked, attack the spot where she had smacked the fly before also returning to sleep. The Sanji Retrieval Team is terrified at what they just witnessed, wondering how they are supposed to save Brook.
Meanwhile, Sanji runs through Sweet City, on his way to the place where Luffy promised to be waiting for him. On the way, a dog races up to him and tries to get into his basket of food. Sanji shakes the dog off, telling it that the food was not for it.
Back inside the Mirro-World, the team finds a skeleton in the Chateau's Execution Room and some seaweed in the kitchen, which they use to make a stand-in for Brook. Jinbe puts Brulee directly in the mirror, to allow any of them to cross through it. Chopper sneaks into the room, but accidentally sneezes, causing Big Mom to semi-consciously slam her hand down where he is standing. Carrot tries next, quietly landing on Big Mom before whispering to Brook to wake up. However, she is forced to flee from a sleep bubble coming from Big Mom's nose, and Zeus spots her. Thinking she is the fly, Zeus shoots a lightning bolt at Carrot. Pedro is the next to try, but Big Mom starts tossing and turning, forcing him to retreat. However, Big Mom finally lets go of Brook, and Nami sets out to retrieve him. Nami wakes Brook up, but Brook screams at the sight of the skeleton she is holding. Thinking the noise is still coming from the fly, Big Mom grabs Prometheus and throws it at the two Straw Hats, but Jinbe manages to bring them safely back to the Mirro-World.
Sanji reaches the outskirts of Sweet City, where he comes across the bodies of the soldiers that Luffy and Nami had earlier fought. He begins to search among them, looking for Luffy.
Inside the Mirro-World, Brook expresses his shock at his sudden rescue, and Nami gets mad at him for screaming and almost getting them killed. Pedro then apologizes to Brook for putting him in danger by sending him to a highly guarded room, but Brook replies that it was a once-in-a-lifetime chance, as they would be unlikely to succeed in reaching the poneglyphs again without fighting a full-scale war. He then pulls out rubbings of Big Mom's three Poneglyphs from inside his skull, explaining that he had barely managed to finish copying them before Big Mom arrived. The others, including Brulee and Diesel, are shocked that he actually succeeded in copying the poneglyphs. The team celebrates Brook's accomplishment, and Chopper declares that they have only one objective remaining: to retrieve Sanji.
Finally, after a period of searching, Sanji hears the sound of a stomach growling behind him. After following the sound, he smiles tearfully as he sees Luffy leaning against the base of Kingbaum, asleep and weakened from hunger.

In the Mirro-World, the Sanji Retrieval Team is unable to find Luffy and Sanji's whereabouts from the mirrors, and Nami deduces that they must not be in the castle, so she begins to think about the place they fought this morning. Chopper is bewildered to hear that the two fought, but Jinbe understands that Sanji must have had things he needed to do in his role as a member of the Vinsmoke Family and it would be difficult to get him to return. He then tells the team that they must hasten, as the wedding is actually not going to be a simple ceremony. He asks if they came with Pekoms, whom the team remembers and asks if he is all right. Jinbe affirms this, but says that the lion mink would have been killed as part of a certain plot had Jinbe not noticed it. In Sweet City, two citizens wonder if they just heard a gunshot, but are unable to tell in the rain. Meanwhile, an injured Bobbin curses three shadowed figures before collapsing.
In the sixth floor guestroom in the Whole Cake Chateau, the barmaids start passing out from the immense amounts of alcohol consumed, and Yonji calls them pathetic as he and his family continue consuming the "weak" alcohol by the barrel. He and Niji wish they had Nami to serve them, and Ichiji recalls having heard that she was captured, before wondering if they can bargain to get her for themselves. Judge then advises giving the drinking a rest, saying that tomorrow night will be the time to party. He excitedly thinks about their upcoming alliance with the Big Mom Pirates tomorrow, and points out that their "failure", Sanji, helped this to come about. The laughing Vinsmoke men then have a toast to their "dud", reflecting that this is the first time he will ever be useful, unaware of the smiling Homies in the room who know of Big Mom's plan at the wedding. Later, the Chess Soldiers guard the Vinsmoke guestroom, receiving orders from Mont-d'Or to not let them contact a single person between now and the ceremony. The Chess Soldiers also guard Reiju who is still in the infirmary, and she remains awake as Judge and Big Mom fall sound asleep.
In the outskirts of Sweet City, Sanji approaches Luffy, who wakes up after smelling the bento basket in Sanji's arms. Sanji says he never told Luffy to wait there as he drops the bento basket at his feet, revealing the poor condition of the bento due to him dropping it and the rain getting into it. However, Luffy starts eating it and cries that it is extremely delicious, noting that Sanji put all the crew's favorite foods in it. However, Sanji calls him a liar. Finally, Luffy finishes the meal and fully regains his strength, and Sanji tells him to leave. Luffy is quickly taken aback and tells Sanji to come with him, but Sanji gives him the reasons why he is unfit to return to the crew. The first reason is that he attacked and disrespected Luffy, his captain, despite the latter coming to save him. The second reason is that Zeff is still being held as a hostage, and the third reason is that despite despising his family, he still does not have the conscience to let them be murdered tomorrow. Sanji asks if Luffy understands, but Luffy responds by punching Sanji in the face, sending him crashing into Kingbaum's remains. Luffy then shouts at Sanji to tell the truth, and as he remembers all the times he spent cooking for the Straw Hats, Sanji tearfully confesses that he wants to return to the crew. However, he is powerless to stop the wedding and save his family, but Luffy assures him that they can work to wreck it together.

Sanji is surprised to hear that Jinbe rebelled against Big Mom and freed Luffy and Nami, and is grateful that Nami is safe. He solemnly reflects that he cannot bring himself to face Nami after all the grief he caused his crewmates. He and Luffy then notice that the rain is stopping. Inside Mirro-World, the Sanji Retrieval Team discovers Luffy and Sanji from a mirror shard that Nami had while she and Luffy were riding on Kingbaum, so they look for more shards nearby. Luffy hears Chopper's voice calling out from the shard, and explains to an appalled and confused Sanji that the rest of their crewmates are inside the mirrors. Luffy talks to his teammates, and they tell him that all of them have been rescued and that Brook managed to get copies of the poneglyphs. Pedro then asks if Luffy and Sanji reached an agreement, and Luffy replies that Sanji is not coming back yet, shocking everyone. Luffy reveals that they are going to crash the wedding and save Sanji's family, after which Sanji will come back to the crew. The Sanji Retrieval Team falls into a stunned silence, and Sanji states that he cannot drag his crewmates into a battle with an Emperor. However, the Sanji Retrieval Team immediately erupts with affirmation, expressing their joy at the possibility of getting Sanji back. Nami coldly states that she will never forgive Sanji for putting her through such fear the previous day, but then says that she will forget about it in order to crash the Tea Party and get him to return, which puts Sanji into a euphoric state.
Jinbe then says that he knows what they have to do, as Big Mom's investment into her tea parties would guarantee her unbridled wrath against them. Not only that, but the ministers they had faced were only a small fraction of the Big Mom Pirates, who would have many powerful people attending the tea party. This is in addition to the various rulers of the Underworld that have been invited from all over the world. In contrast, their team consists of ten people. Brulee and Diesel react in outrage that they were numbered among the team, telling the Sanji Retrieval Team to drop dead. Jinbe then asks if Luffy knows Capone Bege, which Luffy affirms, and Jinbe reveals that Bege is a boss of one of the five most powerful mafias in the West Blue. Jinbe had heard that Bege was a person who cut off animal heads and watched in joy as their lifeless bodies writhed around. The same applied to other organizations, as Bege would go directly after the boss. However, he only took his opponents' wealth; rather than gain power from taking them down, he took pleasure in watching the power struggles that formed as a result. Because of this, Bege is targeted by many enemies, but he enjoys that too as he has managed to dispatch them with his Devil Fruit powers. These habits did not change as Bege grew tired of his land exploits and set off to sea as a pirate, as he took down many captains of famous pirate crews. Now, he is protected from his enemies by Big Mom, and due to his sharp vigilance and high defensive powers, he acquired the title of "Rook" and was placed in charge of security at the wedding. Thus, since his crew is the security, there is nothing standing between them and Big Mom. As Big Mom plans to murder the Vinsmoke Family during the wedding ceremony to take control of Germa 66, Bege plans to take the head of Big Mom herself.
The Sanji Retrieval Team is bewildered to hear about this and all the schemes taking place during it. Jinbe then reveals that Pekoms was taken by Bege and was offered to help in the plan, but the steadfastly loyal lion mink refused. Bege then shot him into shark-infested waters in order to prevent him from revealing the plan, but Jinbe's crew found him and rescued him just in time. Luffy is angered that Bege would do such a thing, but Jinbe states that it may be wise to not consider Bege an enemy despite what happened to Pekoms. Rather than having the Sanji Retrieval Team quickly come up with a plan for the wedding in five hours' time, Jinbe suggests that Luffy ally with Bege, who has been meticulously planning for the event. Luffy then agreed, despite the ensuing protests of his teammates, and Jinbe states that he has already made the preparations, saying that they could always decline the alliance if Luffy ultimately disagreed. In the Fire Tank Pirates' base in northwest Whole Cake Island, Vito affirms that he disposed of Bobbin to prevent him from going after his hero Sanji. Someone asks Bege if Jinbe's group is really coming here, and Bege affirms this, saying that Jinbe does not joke around and it is in both of their interests to oppose Big Mom together. The rest of their dealings will depend on how Luffy acts, with Bege being willing to dispose of his fellow Supernova if Luffy makes him angry.

In the giant kitchen on the eighth floor of the Whole Cake Chateau, head chef Streusen oversees the final touches being added to the wedding cake. Streusen describes the cake ingredients in great detail, comparing them to aspects of life and getting emotional as his subordinates carry the ingredients to the right places.
In the eastern inlet of Whole Cake Island, the Sun Pirates order Pekoms to stop moving, as he still needs rest. Pekoms asks for confirmation that Jinbe reported Bege's treachery to Big Mom, and Aladine lies that he did, though Pekoms is not entirely convinced that Bege is getting his retribution. The other Sun Pirates assure him that this is the case, but Pekoms continues to protest, saying that he heard people sneaking around at night and trying to get out and see for himself. The Sun Pirates say they will not let him do that, and Pekoms cries in outrage as he asks what they are hiding.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Sanji approach the Fire Tank Pirates' base, remembering Jinbe's directions on how to get there. Luffy asks what Bege is like, and Sanji tells him to picture a mafia boss. Vito then opens the main entrance, bursting with delight at getting to meet Sanji again. He tells them that the others are already inside, and Chopper then emerges without his hat on, greeting his crewmates and saying they should take a bath. Luffy and Sanji are shocked to hear Chopper, who hates baths, say that, but Vito says that Bege would not meet with them unless they are clean. Inside the Women's Bath in the base, Nami tells Chiffon about what Lola was like on Thriller Bark, and Chiffon is overjoyed to hear about her twin sister, thanking Nami for saving her. Carrot excitedly follows along with the story as well, and Chiffon wonders if Lola found someone to marry, recalling Big Mom's rage when she left. She says that all giants hate Big Mom for a certain reason, but one day the prince of Elbaf, Loki, had fallen in love with Lola at first sight and proposed to her. Big Mom was overjoyed at the prospect, as she could not only end the enmity between her and the giants, but could also gain control over the military forces of Elbaf, which are known as the strongest in the world. After Lola ran away, Big Mom used Chiffon as a substitute, but the giants found out and the wedding was annulled, with the relationship being even worse from then on. Big Mom then gave up on the giants and started looking into Gigantification research; her rage toward Lola grew greater and greater, to the point where Lola is considered a criminal in Totto Land and Chiffon was brutally beaten by Big Mom for resembling her, giving her injuries that lasted years. Chiffon no longer considers Big Mom her mother, but says that Lola probably does not know about Big Mom's ill will due to her carefree nature, whereas Chiffon did not feel anything when Bege told her about his plan to assassinate Big Mom.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Brook emerge from their bath, with Luffy discontent due to relaxing before the battle has started. They then open a fridge and take out some milk, despite a Fire Tank Pirate member berating them for their rudeness. They then drink the milk, which heals Luffy's missing tooth and Brook's skull crack, appalling the guard. Three hours and 30 minutes before the start of the Tea Party, Brulee and Diesel, who are cleaned up despite still being imprisoned, react in outrage when they find out about Chiffon's compliance with Bege's plot. However, Chiffon reminds them about what Big Mom did to her, saying that Bege and Pez are her only family now. Bege then comes into the meeting room, where the Straw Hats are waiting in fancy outfits. He addresses the topic of forming an alliance, saying that the easiest way out for his crew is to eliminate the Straw Hats now. However, Sanji points out that Bege's plan cannot work with him dead, and Jinbe asks Luffy what his instincts say about an alliance. However, Luffy instead addresses Caesar Clown, who is sitting next to Vito with his hair spiked up. Caesar becomes panicked, and he remembers Bege's crew approaching him in his lab. Bege, in possession of Caesar's heart, offered him his freedom in exchange for the use of his power. Caesar protested against the thought of continued servitude, but ended up going with Bege anyways. Later, Caesar was horrified to learn the Straw Hats would be coming to the base, not wanting to see them ever again. In the present, Caesar states that he is actually Bege's sworn brother "Gangster" Gastino, which briefly fools Luffy, but the Straw Hats quickly make him see straight again. This results in argument between them with Caesar cursing Luffy and Law for forcing him into this situation, but Bege squeezes his heart to silence him as he asks Luffy if he will accept the alliance or not. Luffy decides to first punch Bege for shooting Pekoms, and uproar occurs between the crews as Bege calmly sits there daring Luffy to try. Jinbe then cuts in, telling everyone that they all have a common enemy and they all have something to gain by banding together against her. Luffy then gathers around to Bege to learn the plan, which Bege states will be perfect as Caesar tells them to get over it so he could be free of them.

Sanji, though not inherently interested in assassinating Big Mom, ponders how she can be killed, noting that she seems extremely tough. Pedro says they will need to do it quickly, with Nami recalling how the team was nearly killed retrieving Brook from her while she was sleeping. They then ask why they are aiming for her at the tea party, when several of her children will be around. Bege then replies that under certain conditions, they will have five seconds to take Big Mom's head. If they fail, then total war will erupt and their chances of success will be zero. Bege says the plan will start with Caesar Clown, and Caesar reminds Bege to refer to him by his alias, threatening to kill Pez if Bege does not uphold his end of the bargain and release him after the plan is executed. Caesar then presents the KX Launcher, which contains phosphorous poison that will kill anyone once it enters their body. However, not even that can pierce through Big Mom's skin, and so two conditions must be met: there must be no interference in the planned five seconds, and Big Mom's body must be weakened.
Pez starts to cry due to Bege's loud voice, and Bege quiets him down with baby talk. Bege tells the Sanji Retrieval Team about Big Mom's immense durability, with not even bullets or cannonballs being able to injure her. However, he did see Big Mom get injured once in the previous Tea Party. During tea parties, Big Mom puts a portrait of the mysterious Mother Carmel directly across the table from her. During the last tea party, a servant accidentally dropped the portrait, causing Big Mom to emit an earsplitting shriek that caused everyone to lose consciousness, as well as activate her Haoshoku Haki. When she kneeled down, her knee began bleeding. Thus, Bege plans to cut the picture in half, as not only will this leave Big Mom defenseless, but the people around her will be incapacitated from her shrieks for at least five seconds. Bege then presents the Sanji Retrieval Team with earplugs to protect them from Big Mom's shrieks. Luffy then suggests rescuing the Vinsmoke Family in the process, but Bege tells him that it will take three seconds for Big Mom to react to the portrait being destroyed, meaning there is a good chance they will die in those three seconds. Thus, Luffy will serve as bait to keep Big Mom's forces at bay. Nami and Chiffon are outraged that Bege is carelessly risking Luffy's life, but Luffy agrees to it, saying he has the perfect entrance planned. Luffy says the cue will be when Sanji and Pudding kiss, but Sanji reminds him that Pudding will shoot him before that, so he will dodge; Luffy will instead make his entrance once he hears the gunshot.
Bege says that once Big Mom starts shrieking, Luffy's group can rescue the Vinsmokes while Caesar will break in through a mirror with Brulee's help. Once Caesar arrives, the team can escape the room and go back to their ships, where they can escape the island. The distressed Brulee tries thinking of a way she can report this to Big Mom. After Big Mom's assassination is successful, the alliance will part ways, and Bege wishes everyone luck. With two and a half hours left until the wedding, Sanji prepares to go back to his room to prepare for the wedding, and Luffy asks Bege to help him with his entrance, to Bege's exasperation.
Meanwhile, the various islands in Totto Land celebrate the upcoming wedding, and in the Germa Kingdom, the soldiers of Germa 66 reflect on the peacefulness, having not been allowed at the wedding. In the Whole Cake Chateau, the Vinsmokes get changed for the ceremony. Meanwhile, Big Mom cries hysterically about Brook's death as she holds his lifeless skeletal substitute, but she is reminded about the wedding, and tosses "Brook" aside in glee as it is reported that her guests are streaming into the castle. In Pudding's room, Nitro and Rabian ask why Pudding is so sullen as she sits in her wedding dress. Pudding replies that she is not looking forward to being splattered in blood after shooting Sanji and having to rewrite everyone's memories in order to continue to be seen as a good girl.

At Whole Cake Island's eastern bay, Pekoms is asking Aladine where the Sun Pirates are going. Aladine informs him the crew is leaving the country, and Pekoms asks if Big Mom is aware of this while reminding about what happens to those who leave Big Mom's umbrella. Aladine lets Pekoms know how grateful Jinbe is. He recalls Jinbe's final address to the Sun Pirates, having learnt of Capone Bege's plan to assassinate Big Mom. While Jinbe is uncertain that the plan will work, he is glad (if shocked) to learn about Big Mom's own plan to assassinate Germa. Jinbe remarks that if Luffy finds out about this, he would surely do something rash to save Sanji. Not wanting this to happen, Jinbe declares his intention to help Luffy out and fully betray Big Mom. When recounted that when he tried to leave her crew honestly, she dragged out her penalty roulette, which is marked with numbers that, if chosen, indicates how many crew members would suffer along with Jinbe. Not wanting to subject them to such an absurd punishment, Jinbe orders the Sun Pirates to run before the Tea Party starts, because he knows security will be light as the ships are sent to escort guests. Aladine assures Jinbe that they would protect him in the same way he would protect them. Jinbe tries to brush it off, which angers Aladine, who can tell Jinbe plans to die. Jinbe tells Aladine of his intent to join the Straw Hat Pirates, and that, in doing so, it was only a matter of time before he put his life on the line to defend his new captain. Aladine understands Jinbe's intentions and tells him to do what he must. He then says that he and the crew will go back to Fish-Man Island, asking Jinbe if he was still worried about Ryugu, and Jinbe says yes. The flashback ends with Jinbe and Aladine reaffirming their friendship. Aladine then tells the crew to set sail, much to the abandoned Pekoms's dismay.
Inside Whole Cake Chateau, the Vinsmoke Family makes its way to the ceremony venue, which Judge explains is on the Chateau's roof. Behind him, Yonji asks Reiju where she was the previous night. Reiju brushes it off, lying that she requested a change of room to escape the ruckus of their drinking and celebrations. Niji patronizes his brother, telling him to keep out of other adults' business. Niji then confirms with one of Big Mom's subordinates that Sanji was preparing for the ceremony, which leads Reiju to ask herself what Sanji was planning on doing.
Outside, the homies are getting excited as the ceremony's start draws closer. A pig-drawn carriage hurries in and stops before a welcoming crowd, with some remarking how late they are. The Underworld guests then step out of the carriage and proceed to the entrance of the Chateau: the Black Market King, "God of Fortune" Lu Feld, "Queen of the Entertainment District" Stussy, "Major Undertaker" Drug Peclo; the president of the World Economic Journal, "Big News" Morgans; Giberson the Concealer, a leader in the storage industry; and a shipping magnate, "Deep Current" Umit. Lu Feld and Peclo trade barbs, each asking the other why they were invited, but are silenced by Stussy. Morgans comments about what big news the marriage is, while Giberson and Umit note how it was already common knowledge in the Underworld. Charlotte Perospero then welcomes the guests and prepares a candy escalator to take them to the roof, explaining that they are the last guests and that Big Mom hates latecomers. The guests marvel at the escalator's craftsmanship, before boarding. Perospero then gives some lollipops to some nearby waiting children, telling them that they can eat the escalator in a few minutes.
On the roof, just outside the banquet area, a guest is demanding to be let in without a body check. Bege politely tells him they can't do that. The person, organ dealer Jigra, reminds Bege that he was invited to the last wedding too, but could not attend due to having to go to his mother's funeral. He told Big Mom this, and asks Bege to guess what she sent in return. Before he can finish, the man is shot in the head. Bege demands to know who shot him. A man on the doorframe then tells Bege how the story would have ended: "She sent me the head of my father, who was in the hospital. I'm here for revenge, open the door", at which point he would have opened fire, killing two of Bege's subordinates in the process. The person talking is revealed to be Sweet Commander Charlotte Katakuri, second son of the Charlotte Family, who had thrown a jelly bean at Jigra. Bege is visibly irritated by Katakuri's presence, given that Katakuri had trained his Kenbunshoku Haki so well that he can see slightly into the future, posing the biggest threat to Bege's plans. Katakuri instructs Bege to tell Big Mom that sniping Jigra was his judgment, before foretelling Bege's eventual acquiescence.
The final guests enter the party room, excited by the atmosphere. Charlotte Smoothie greets them and offers them a drink; the selection is a piece of lava, a beautiful woman who had stabbed one hundred men, and a giraffe that makes a funny sound. Giberson, Stussy, and Peclo all get a glass of the giraffe, squeezed into the glass by Smoothie's Devil Fruit ability. As they marvel at the taste and feel of the drink, Big Mom enters the venue. She welcomes the guests, informing them that everything in the room is edible and to make sure to enjoy everything that happens today.

At the top of the candy stairway and the Whole Cake Chateau itself lies the Whole Cake Chateau Rooftop, which is where the Tea Party is currently going on. Vito peeks over the walls from the outside, watching in glee as Morgans talks with Vinsmoke Judge. Bege waves it off as nothing to care about, but Vito points out that there are a lot of high-profile guests here, including Charlotte Family children Perospero, Compote, Katakuri, Smoothie, Daifuku, and Oven. He expresses his apprehension at going against people like this, confusing the door homie nearby. Inside the walls of the rooftop, a Chess Soldier presents the portrait of Mother Carmel to Big Mom, and Big Mom is excited to see her. Her guests go along with the excitement, despite not knowing who Carmel is. However, a first-time guest asks about Carmel's significance, causing Big Mom to knock him out with Haoshoku Haki in a fit of rage. The emperors of the Underworld then present Big Mom with their gifts for her and Pudding, delighting her even more. Upon Morgans' prompting, Big Mom then reveals the Tamatebako in her possession, and says she will open it for everyone to see along with all her other presents during the banquet after the wedding ceremony.
Outside, two members of the Fire Tank Pirates report to Bege, having finished their preparations. Bege confirms that the cooks have all come to the tea party, that the exits are all blocked off, and that communications are jammed with a Horned Den Den Mushi. Bege commends his men before telling them to get changed. Bege then tells Caesar to come out of his body with the escape mirror, and the scientist emerges holding a very large mirror. Bege then instructs Caesar to hide the mirror and explains that his job would be to fly in with the mirror once Big Mom starts shrieking, allowing the assassination party to escape into it after killing Big Mom. The door homie is shocked to see Bege with Caesar and wonders what they are plotting, but Bege notices it and has Gotti cut off its face, killing it. With 30 minutes before the ceremony, Bege looks inside his body to see if everyone is ready, but is shocked to see Luffy and his crewmates sleeping. Jinbe tells him to let them sleep, as they had not slept since their arrival on Whole Cake Island. He promises to wake them up 10 minutes before the ceremony starts, and Bege threatens to leave them behind if they become a hindrance. Bege then tells Caesar to get back inside his body and prepares to enter the venue, stating that there is no going back once he does so.
Meanwhile, in the bride and groom room on the ninth floor, Sanji and Pudding sit next to each other, with Sanji remarking that this feels like a dream. Putting on an act, Pudding tearfully asks if this is a good or a bad dream, causing Sanji to become lovestruck at her beautiful appearance. He tries his best to remember that Pudding is acting and intends to kill him, but then tells her she can kiss him on the forehead during the ceremony if she wants. However, Pudding claims she will kiss him on the lips, causing Sanji to get a massive nosebleed and crash into the wall. Outwardly, Pudding expresses concern for him, but inwardly she is sick of his behavior and eager to kill him as soon as possible. Later, as the tea party is in full swing, the wedding ceremony begins, with Sanji and Pudding flying in on a giant teacup carried by Zeus. The guests celebrate, while Bege notices that Sanji is caught up with his attraction to Pudding and notes what a "good actor" Sanji is.

With the wedding ceremony getting underway, Jinbe attempts to wake Luffy while the team waits for the signal inside Capone's body castle. Nami comments that only food will wake him, and Chopper asks one of Capone's men to bring meat out for Luffy.
Above the wedding venue, Sanji and Pudding stand in their teacup atop Zeus. Pudding tells Sanji of her happiness and Sanji responds that he is happy too; however, both bride and groom keep their true thoughts to themselves, with Pudding eagerly awaiting her time to kill him, and Sanji reminding himself to stay focused on his role in the plan. The head chef, Streusen, then arrives, calling forth an enormous wedding cake with the wedding altar at its peak. Big Mom and the guests respond enthusiastically to the sight of the cake before Pudding and Sanji arrive at the altar. Observing the Vinsmoke Family as they take their seats at their allocated table, Big Mom eagerly anticipates the imminent start of the slaughter.
At their table, the Vinsmoke Family watches the exchange of vows. Yonji comments on Pudding's beauty, but Niji responds that only someone crazy would want to marry Big Mom's daughter, and Ichiji reminds him that Sanji is their sacrifice, to be forced to spend the rest of his life under Big Mom's control. Reiju, however, observes silently as members of the Charlotte Family take their seats at surrounding tables, in preparation for their plot to assassinate her family. While Reiju is content to allow Germa's destruction and her own death, she ponders hopefully that Sanji will escape to safety, and puts her trust in Luffy to ensure this outcome.
As the exchange of vows commences, a finally awake Luffy is seen running with the rest of the team towards an unknown destination. From his position observing, Katakuri has a brief vision of Pudding collapsing onto her knees, which confuses him. Smoothie asks her brother if something is wrong, and Capone begins to sweat as he realizes that Katakuri has seen slightly into the future. As Sanji lifts the veil from Pudding's face in order to perform the kiss of oath, Pudding reveals her third eye to him, expecting him to be shocked and disgusted. Sanji is indeed shocked, but because he views the eye as beautiful. This shocks Pudding and brings her to tears, leading her to recall periods of her childhood in which she was bullied by others for having a "creepy" and "ugly" third eye, as well as her own increasingly twisted responses to these attacks. Through her tears, she tells herself that she must kill Sanji, but she remains stunned by the compliment that she had never received before.
On the floor of the venue, Big Mom and her children become increasingly confused as to why Pudding had not yet shot Sanji. Big Mom eventually signals the officiating priest to do it instead, but Katakuri foresees that Sanji will successfully dodge the shot. He then decides to snipe Sanji personally, but Sanji successfully dodges this shot as well. This causes Katakuri's jellybean to hit the priest, killing him and sending his shot flying, which both surprises Katakuri as Sanji glares at him for his action. The shot's sound signals to Luffy that it was time for Luffy to make his entrance. From their table, Judge and Ichiji respond in shock and confusion to both shots, while Reiju is concerned for Sanji's safety.
Suddenly, Katakuri stands up and moves in front of his mother. When she asks him what happened to Pudding, he tells her to forget about Pudding, and that there was no way to prevent what would happen next; the rest of the Charlotte Family is also left unsure what to do about the assassination plan. Brulee begins to cry tearfully that she had no choice but to do the Straw Hats' bidding, and Luffy declares his intention to take Sanji back. As the giant cake begins to shake, it suddenly explodes as a dozen "Luffys" emerged from within, several of whom have taken substantial bites out of the cake itself. With all the Luffy duplicates yelling out Big Mom's name, Big Mom herself yells out in shock as the guests watched on, aghast.

Three and a half hours ago, Bege reacts in surprise to Luffy's suggestion of putting a mirror inside the wedding cake. Brulee protests heavily, and Luffy remembers that she can make copies of people out of animals, which Chopper confirms. Luffy then catches several animals for Brulee to make into copies of him, to her shock. In the present, the wedding guests react in shock to Luffy and his copies flying out of the cake, and Morgans excitedly calls it big news. The guests start to run as the giant cake begins toppling in their direction, and Sanji catches Pudding as he jumps off the cake, placing his trust in Luffy to complete the plan. Smoothie is appalled that Luffy did not die in the Prisoner Library like Mont-d'Or had told her, and Mont-d'Or angrily reflects that Opera lied to him in order to protect himself.
Big Mom then begins to have a crisis as she witnesses the destruction of the cake she was looking forward to immensely. Streusen tries to calm her down, but Big Mom demands another cake before threatening the lives of her cooks. Morgans gets excited to see Big Mom's "Soul Pocus" technique as she removes the lifespans of several cooks, killing them. Meanwhile, in the Mirro-World, the Sanji Retrieval Team gets the last of the Luffy clones out into the wedding venue, and Jinbe and Pedro head out to back Luffy up. Nami, Chopper, and Carrot then head outside as well in order to rescue the Vinsmoke Family, and they leave Caesar Clown behind to do his job, belittling him in the process. Big Mom angrily confronts Luffy and his clones, and wonders aloud which Luffy is the real one. Bege is initially impressed with the bravado of Luffy's plan, but the real Luffy reveals himself to Big Mom, leaving him aghast as Big Mom confronts the real Luffy. Luffy sees the portrait of Mother Carmel and targets it, and Bege has Vito and Gotti get ready to attack Big Mom with their KX Launchers. Nami, Chopper, and Carrot hide inside the wedding cake, preparing to go three seconds after Luffy breaks the portrait and rescue the Vinsmokes.
Big Mom summons Zeus and Prometheus to attack Luffy, and Luffy prepares to attack, but he is suddenly intercepted by a massive tendril composed of a sticky substance. The substance is coming from Katakuri's leg, and Katakuri tells Big Mom that this one is the real Luffy while the others are just animals. Luffy's arms and legs are swallowed in the massive substance, and Big Mom initially gets mad at Katakuri for trying to save her, but Katakuri tells her that he knew Luffy was going after the portrait of Mother Carmel. Katakuri notes that only people close to the family know about the importance of the portrait, and orders Luffy to reveal who told him about it as he sends the Straw Hat falling toward the ground. Bege begins to get worried, and Pedro prepares to free Luffy from Katakuri, but Jinbe steps in and attacks with a massive burst of water, softening the sticky substance and freeing Luffy from it.
Jinbe tells Luffy that Katakuri ate the Paramecia-type Mochi Mochi no Mi and warns him to avoid his sticky substance, before claiming to Big Mom that he was the one who revealed Carmel's importance. Big Mom is not pleased, and accuses Jinbe of starting a mutiny, but Jinbe states that he is simply quitting her crew to join the Straw Hat Pirates, much to Luffy's delight and Morgans' excitement at such big news. Big Mom is fine with that, but must take Jinbe's lifespan in return, and Jinbe is fine with her doing so as long as she does not harm any of his comrades. Big Mom calls Jinbe's desire foolish, and asks again whether he wants to stay or to give up his life, but to her bewilderment Jinbe wants her to take his life, and his soul is not coming out of his body because he shows no fear. The Big Mom Pirates are shocked by his lack of fear, as Jinbe states that he will not cower at an Emperor if he intends to join the crew of the future Pirate King, and offers Big Mom a sake cup to signify his departure if she cannot take away his lifespan. The Straw Hats are amazed by Jinbe's courage and Luffy cheers him on, but Big Mom steps on the sake cup and now recognizes Jinbe as her enemy as she attacks him with Zeus and Prometheus. However, in the midst of the chaos, Brook approaches Carmel's portrait disguised as Luffy, and shatters the portrait with a hammer.

Luffy and Jinbe dodge as Big Mom swings Prometheus at them, and someone tells Big Mom to look over to the banquet table as Brook shatters the portrait of Mother Carmel. Luffy and Jinbe are jubilant and the Big Mom Pirates are shocked to see this, and they wonder how a sentient Luffy clone could be out. Brook then reveals he is not a clone as he rips off his Luffy mask, but the wedding guests think he pulled off his actual skin. Big Mom is bewildered to see Brook again, and slowly asks him if he knows about the importance of the portrait. The Big Mom Pirates become shocked and fearful at Big Mom's upcoming reaction, and Judge believes that the Straw Hats are doing this solely to get Sanji back. As a dazed Big Mom recalls her destroyed wedding cake, her crew mobilizes to defeat the Straw Hats before she goes crazy.
Meanwhile, Pudding furiously attempts to shoot Sanji, trying to show him that she is his enemy who deceived him in order to kill him. However, Sanji dodges all of her shots and asks if she is deceiving herself as well, causing Pudding to briefly waver. Before she regains her composure, she is suddenly attacked, and Sanji pulls her out of the way. The attacker, Charlotte Daifuku, berates his younger sister for her failures as a giant genie emerges from his belt buckle due to his Hoya Hoya no Mi ability. Pudding promises to finish her job, but Daifuku says her time is up as he smacks her away. Sanji is shocked at Daifuku's action, and Drug Peclo realizes that the Straw Hats must be trying to save Sanji from his fate at Pudding's hands. Daifuku's genie attacks Sanji, and Sanji initially manages to counter it, but it blows him away with another powerful strike. In the Mirro-World, Brulee begs Caesar to stop using her as he flies around with her on his back, but Caesar is intent on fulfilling his mission in order to get his heart back. As some of Big Mom's forces are kept busy by Luffy's animal duplicates, Bege pins down Luffy in order to keep his cover, and when he announces it to Big Mom, he is ordered to kill Luffy. Jinbe wonders when Big Mom is going to react to the portrait shattering, because he cannot hold back her forces for too much longer, and he tells Pedro not to block his opponent's attacks. However, Pedro blocks a punch from Charlotte Oven, but Oven heats up his sword with the power of the Netsu Netsu no Mi, causing Pedro to be unable to carry it. Oven recalls Pedro's first invasion of Totto Land, and wonders why he is back with so few years left to live, promising to not show him mercy and burn him to death.
Nami, Chopper, and Carrot hang around inside the wedding cake, wondering why nothing has happened after three seconds. Brook's head is then cut off, but he remains alive as his head rolls toward Luffy. Judge then cries out for help, and the Straw Hats are shocked to see the Vinsmokes trapped at their table, noting that their plan is not going as intended. The Vinsmokes sit at their table, surrounded at gunpoint by several Big Mom Pirates and bound to their seats by Perospero's candy. Judge shouts that there should be honor among thieves, but his sons call his behavior silly as they remain nonchalant even as their lives are threatened. Reiju reflects that it is Judge's fault for turning his sons into barely human beings who feel nothing, even at the prospect of death. Perospero gleefully laughs at the upcoming massacre, and Judge starts to cry as he pleads for this to be a joke. He can barely handle the prospect of death after all the work he put into restoring the Germa Kingdom's power, but his pleas for Big Mom to say something fall on deaf ears as she is entirely preoccupied with Carmel and the wedding cake. Perospero says that Judge is lucky for Big Mom's rage to be focused on something else, and compares the family to a herd of cows about to be slaughtered, paying no mind to their cries.
Meanwhile, Brook tells Luffy that they need to show Big Mom the broken Carmel portrait, as she is currently torn between it and the wedding cake in order to become truly enraged. However, Luffy notices Katakuri approaching them, and Bege tells Luffy to keep going with the plan while he confronts Katakuri. Bege notices that Katakuri's face has turned completely white, which means he has seen a horrific future. Bege tells Jinbe and Pedro to back Luffy up and put on their earplugs as Luffy grabs the shards of the portrait, and the Big Mom Pirates begin to get suspicious of Bege. Katakuri orders Bege to shoot Luffy, but Bege refuses. As Luffy prepares to show Big Mom the portrait shards, Bege says that while Katakuri can see a bit into the future, anyone has the power to change it.

Caesar Clown flies out of the giant mirror placed outside the wedding venue with Brulee still on his back, and Brulee begs him to not show her face since she will be killed, but Caesar replies that they will know she is involved due to the alliance using mirrors to get around. Caesar prepares to fly in the mirror and ensure the last stage of the plan happens smoothly, and he peeks over the wall to see Big Mom's state. To his surprise, however, Big Mom is not screaming even though the plan has been executed and Carmel's portrait is destroyed.
Inside the venue, Luffy races to Big Mom in order to show her the shards of the Carmel portrait so she can focus her rage. Katakuri angrily races at Bege as the latter blocks him from taking action, and he tells Perospero to hurry and kill the Vinsmokes. Perospero taunts the Vinsmokes that their deaths are inevitable, and Judge bitterly wishes that they had brought their raid suits, but Perospero questions why they would bring weapons to their son's wedding. Sanji then shouts for Reiju to run as he struggles to find his footing while running from Daifuku's genie, and Reiju reflects that Sanji going this far to save them gives her the knowledge that conscience still remains in their family, allowing her to be at peace. Meanwhile, Bege shoots Katakuri with several guns inside his castle, but they pass through Katakuri's Special Paramecia body. He and the other Big Mom Pirates are shocked at Bege's outright betrayal, and as Luffy runs past the scene of the conflict, Katakuri attacks him with a mochi leg. However, Pedro steps in and slices up the mochi, but gets his sword caught in its stickiness. Jinbe attacks Katakuri with Fish-Man Karate, but Katakuri dodges him before moving past him. He leaps at Luffy and slams a giant mochi arm into him, pinning him to the ground, but at the last second Luffy stretches out his arms to the front of Big Mom's face, allowing her to see the portrait shards again.
Big Mom grabs the portrait shards and fully realizes the damage done to it, as Katakuri and Perospero get very scared, she unleashes a great cry which shakes the entire venue. Some people are knocked out by her blast of Haoshoku Haki, while others resist the Haki but are rendered motionless due to the sound of her high-pitched cry. Vito and Gotti then jump out of Bege's body with their weapons in tow, and Big Mom scrapes her knee as she drops onto it, shocking Galette. Meanwhile, Chopper inserts earplugs into Reiju's ears, and Sanji frees all of his family from their bindings with Diable Jambe kicks while Nami and Carrot guard the table. Smoothie begs someone to stop Bege and his crew, and as Bege, Vito, and Gotti prepare to fire their KX Launchers, a distraught Big Mom thinks about Mother Carmel and her departure 63 years ago on Elbaf.

At the coast of Elbaf 63 years ago, a five-year-old Charlotte Linlin was left there by her parents. The parents claimed that her father had work to do nearby and they would pick her up later, promising to let her eat as many sweets as she wanted if she stayed put. Linlin easily agreed, but as the parents got back on the ship, they solemnly revealed that they were abandoning Linlin on the island. Her mother cried, but her father assured her that it was necessary after all the destruction she had caused which resulted in her exile from their homeland. Her father hoped that the "Holy Mother" Carmel, would save Linlin. Linlin sat on the shore for a long time, and as night fell, she began to get distressed and call for her parents.
A century ago, the two captains of the Giant Warrior Pirates, Dorry and Brogy, disappeared, and the remnants of their crew were captured by the Marines. However, before they were about to be executed, the beautiful Sister Carmel stepped in and claimed that the heavens had asked for a peaceful resolution. She revealed that executing the pirates would cause the giants of Elbaf to wage war on humans, and as a beam of sunlight shone on her in the midst of a storm, she asked to guide the giants in order to create a world where all races lived together in harmony. Carmel then set up an institution in Elbaf called the Sheep's House, where she took in all lost children regardless of their race. 37 years later, an 80-year-old Carmel welcomed Linlin to the Sheep's House, promising to take care of her until her parents returned. Linlin, who had always been bigger than everyone she met, was excited to live in a place where everything was her own size, and felt like this was home. One time, Linlin wept as she revealed that she put a bear and a wolf in a cage in order to get them to make up, only for the bear to eat the wolf. When she tried to punish the bear, she killed it in one hit, and as Carmel heard this, she was shocked at Linlin's power, but praised her for her efforts to show kindness, regardless of whether or not it worked. Linlin also got into trouble when she tried to get rid of strange things like a Longarm's extra joint or a Fish-Man's fin, but Carmel assured her that those were normal while asking everyone to forgive her since she was kind at heart.
Ten months later, Oimo and Kashii discussed the disappearance of Dorry and Brogy and decided to go get them if they were not back in ten years. As they talked, Linlin chased a giant girl named Gerd, and Kashii asked Linlin if preparations were ready at the Sheep's House. Linlin did not know what he was talking about, and Gerd revealed that they would have a 12-day fasting period to celebrate the Winter Solstice Festival. Linlin was shocked at the thought of not eating, but Gerd assured her that there would be a great festival afterwards. Meanwhile, a young Hajrudin was shown training in order to join the Giant Warrior Pirates once either Dorry or Brogy returned, and the former captains of the Giant Warrior Pirates and heroes of the giants, Jarul and Jorul, commended Raideen as they entered the village. They stated that they must never forget their warrior heritage, and one of the giants asked why they are here. The two giant heroes revealed that they had come to eat semla with everyone at the Sheep's house, and both Linlin and Gerd salivated in excitement at the thought of semla.
The banquet then began, and the partakers thanked the sun for the birth of Loki, Goldberg, Road  as well as for the growth of all the children. There was a lot of semla to eat, but Linlin loved it so much she ate a large quantity of it very quickly, forcing some giants to hold her back so other people could eat. The 12 days of fasting then began, and on the third day Linlin was distraught at the lack of food. Carmel told her that the Winter Solstice Festival was to celebrate the rebirth of the sun, and they would be more thankful for the sun the harder their wait got. Linlin loved Carmel and so obeyed her, but on the seventh day could not withstand her cravings. Gerd rushed to Carmel in a panic and revealed that Linlin was wreaking havoc on the village, and Linlin stood outside, surrounded by flames and the bodies of giants which she had taken down as she cried out for semla. As Linlin's housemates watched the scene in shock, Jorul angrily stated that Linlin had gone too far to be forgiven and that she was not qualified to give thanks to the sun as he prepared to strike her down. Carmel attempted to stop him, but he said that Linlin was an evil spirit in the form of a child as he raised his sword against her.

Sixty-three years ago, Jorul swung his sword at Charlotte Linlin, but she blocked it with her bare forearm and caused it to snap in half. Grabbing Jorul by the beard despite Carmel's desperate orders, Linlin threw the giant hero to the ground, severely injuring him. Linlin then continued looking for semla, and Carmel asked a giant woman if there was any around. The woman reluctantly said there was some in the storehouse for the festival, and as some giants held Linlin down, Carmel stepped toward the flames caused by her ward and summoned a little bit of her soul from her hand. Carmel sent the soul fragment into the flames, creating a sun homie in a flash of light that she named Pandora. As Linlin was fed some semla and satiated, the giants stared in awe at Pandora, and Carmel claimed that it was the sun god and had made all things right. However, an enraged Jarul prepared to thrust his sword into the now-sleeping Linlin, and Carmel tried to stop him. Jarul replied that Jorul was beyond saving from his wounds at his age, and he could not forgive Linlin for having him die in such a manner. Carmel understood but could not leave a lost child like Linlin to die, and promised to go out of the country with her. Hajrudin was angry at Jarul's hesitation, but Jarul tearfully turned around and angrily ordered the two to disappear from his sight. Later, Linlin woke up and did not remember anything she had done, causing the giants to become even angrier, and she was soon hated by the entire giant race once word spread to the other giant kingdoms.
The other Sheep's House children accompanied Carmel and Linlin to another island, where a new Sheep's House was set up by giants and life resumed as normal. In the Sheep's House, the children were raised with the goal of finding good foster parents. However, Carmel later went to a World Government building, where she told surprised CP0 agents that she indeed left Elbaf in order to keep Linlin, as she was now prepared to sell the girl to them for a high price. The agents balked at the price, but Carmel called Linlin her greatest product yet, saying she was strong enough to eventually become an Admiral or Fleet Admiral. She reminded the agents of how she sold them high-caliber orphans every two years to serve as intelligence agents, and the agents reluctantly agreed. Mother Carmel, an orphan trafficker known in the underworld as "Mountain Witch", was satisfied and decided to make this her last deal, as it took a lot of work to act as a loving mother. After the meeting, she continued to nurture her children, but always knew her true purpose in raising them. The Sheep's House later celebrated Linlin's sixth birthday, and Linlin was presented with a giant pile of semla, which was called a croquembouche. The Sheep's House decided to have a tea party to celebrate, and Linlin gorged on the semla with tears of joy fogging her vision. She had the greatest birthday of her life, surrounded by Carmel and her friends, but when she finally finished the semla and thanked her housemates, she saw that they had all disappeared. Linlin fretted as she searched for them to no avail, and in the present day she continues crying out for her mother as she recalls being left alone forever that day.

Big Mom continues screaming at the unexplained disappearance of Mother Carmel and her housemates 63 years ago, not knowing that there were two witnesses to the event that day. One of them was a warrior of Elbaf who cared about the Sheep's House, and when he saw what happened, he was so repulsed that he ran away, never to set foot on the island again. His account was spread throughout the giants, causing them to despise Linlin so much they refrained from even saying her name. The other witness was the chef and failed pirate Streusen, who found the event hilarious. He had the Kuku Kuku no Mi, which gave him the ability to make ready-made food out of natural objects, and he decided to maximize on Linlin's potential by joining her. He approached her, and though he could not help her with the disappearance, he offered to work with her and feed her whatever she wanted.
In the present, Streusen is unable to move due to Big Mom's scream, and he begs her to return to her senses before the Fire Tank Pirates shoot her. Bege, Vito, and Gotti then fire their KX Launchers at her, and the alliance looks on in anticipation while the Big Mom Pirates stare in shock. Big Mom remembers Carmel expressing her desire to make the island they were on into a country where all races could live together and see eye to eye, and Linlin thought that meant everyone else would be the same size as her in that country, which caused her to share that dream. With Streusen, Linlin revealed that she had obtained Carmel's Soru Soru no Mi power by creating a flower homie, and the two decided to make the island their dream country. They entered a life of piracy, and Linlin quickly grew infamous, earning a bounty of 50,000,000 not too long after meeting Streusen. Her power was stated to be dangerous by Cipher Pol and her bounty grew to at least 500,000,000 before she was even an adult as she razed villages with Zeus and Prometheus at her side. In return for sweets, she promised to let all her victims live together in her dream country, threatening to kill them if they refused. To this day, Big Mom notes to the deceased Carmel that there have always been "selfish" people who refuse to agree with her dream, and she will never forgive the Straw Hats for trampling on Carmel's memory by breaking the portrait of her. Big Mom then emanates a great blast that detonates the KX Launcher shots before they hit her, shocking the Fire Tank Pirates.
Katakuri manages to cover his ears with mochi earplugs, and distributes the earplugs to his crewmates, allowing them to regain their composure. With their plan having failed, the Fire Tank Pirates run away in fear, and Caesar prepares to fly in the mirror, angry that his KX Launchers were destroyed. Bege motions for the Sanji Retrieval Team to get into the mirror as his crew races toward it, but as Caesar comes in, the pressure from Big Mom's scream shatters the mirror. The alliance now has nowhere to run and no chance of fighting as they are surrounded by the Big Mom Pirates' forces, but Bege suddenly transforms himself into a giant humanoid fortress as he orders his allies to get inside of him.

As Big Mom continues to scream, Bege urges the alliance to get inside Big Father, while Mont-d'Or and Galette remark that they cannot let Bege or Caesar Clown live. Vito and the rest of the Fire Tank Pirates gesture for the alliance to hurry inside Big Father, but as Caesar flies towards the fortress, Katakuri stretches forward and retrieves Brulee before shooting down Bege's men using his jellybeans. At the same time, Smoothie restrains Nami, Daifuku's genie restrains Carrot, and Oven restrains Chopper.
Nearby, Sanji gestures to his father to retreat into Bege's fortress, but as the Charlotte Family continue firing at them, the rest of the Vinsmoke Family change into their raid suits. One of Big Mom's children shoots fire at the Vinsmokes, but Perospero realizes that Germa's raid suits are fireproof and attempts to bind them in candy once more. However, the Vinsmokes easily evade Perospero's candy wave, and he receives a punch to the face from Ichiji. Niji also frees Chopper from Oven, while Reiju attacks Smoothie and Yonji throws Daifuku's genie into the ground. As Nami falls from Smoothie's grasp, Sanji manages to catch her in his arms, an action which is seen by Pudding. After freeing the Straw Hats, Judge orders his children to retreat inside Big Father.
During the ongoing chaos, Lu Feld spots some mochi and plugs his ears, before noticing the unguarded Tamatebako. However, before he can open it and steal its contents, another burst from Big Mom sends both him and the box flying. To Feld's despair, the box eventually flies off the roof of Whole Cake Chateau.
With the alliance and the Vinsmoke Family gathered inside Big Father, Bege fires Big Father's cannons at Big Mom. However, a recovered Perospero protects his mother with a candy wall, while Katakuri plugs the cannons with mochi to prevent them from firing further. Perospero then binds Big Father's arms and legs in hardened candy, preventing it from moving and placing the entire alliance under siege. As they wait, Brulee begs Katakuri not to punish her for betraying them, pleading that she was a victim of the alliance. Smoothie also wrings Reiju's poison out of her arm, remarking that Reiju's powers was troublesome.
Inside Big Father, the alliance gathers to discuss the situation. An impressed Luffy remarks in amazement at Bege's powers, but Bege responds irritably that this was the first time one of his assassination plots had failed. Jinbe asks what they should do now, and Bege explains that he and Big Father are one and the same-if the castle is destroyed, Bege will die and the alliance will be thrown outside into the middle of the Big Mom Pirates. Caesar attempts to defend his weapons, but he is cut short when Bege collapses and begins bleeding. Bege explains that Big Mom has regained her senses, and she proceeds to attack Big Father. As Big Mom pounds away, she screams for the alliance to show themselves and demands that Bege answer for his betrayal.

Big Mom yells for Bege and Luffy to show themselves, and in desperation Chiffon tries to get Big Mom to spare them for her and Pez's sake. However, Big Mom only grows angry due to seeing Lola's face in her, and continues her attack on Big Father, pointing out that Chiffon is also an accomplice in the assassination plot. As Big Mom attacks, her crew stands outside, preparing to attack the enemy alliance once Bege dies in order to make them an example to the world. Inside Big Father, Bege continues convulsing as he receives injuries from Big Mom, saying that her punches easily break through Big Father's fortifications that is resistant to cannonballs. Luffy tries to run out and attack Big Mom, but Nami has Chopper hold him back. She points out that they have successfully achieved everything they came to do, and tells him to think of a way to escape so they can get to Wano Country.
However, Luffy is concerned for Bege, and Bege admits that he would be willing to bring down his allies with him, but is definitely not willing to let his crew, wife, or son die. He comes up with a plan, where he will turn human, have Caesar exit his body, and have Caesar fly him out of the venue. Caesar immediately rejects the idea, calling it suicidal due to the prevalence of armed Busoshoku Haki users in the venue that could easily shoot him dead. Meanwhile, Judge asks Sanji why he rescued them, and Sanji replies that his father would be saddened to see him holding on to a childhood grudge and laughing at his blood relatives' death. Sanji does not want to live a life where he could not face his father, and he states that the Vinsmoke Sanji who left the Germa Kingdom died 13 years ago, just as Judge wanted; he shouts at Judge to accept that the two are no longer father and son, and to no longer appear in front of them again. Judge obliges, promising to not come near Sanji or the East Blue ever again.
Meanwhile, Caesar argues to Bege that this plan goes beyond what he had agreed to do, and Bege retorts that Caesar will die too if he does not help. Suddenly, Judge tells Bege to open the gate, saying that the Germa will escort the alliance as they make their escape. Caesar is appalled by Judge butting in, and Bege obliges due to the Vinsmokes being capable of flight. Luffy tries to help as well, but Sanji stops him as the Vinsmokes head out, intent on getting rid of their debt to Sanji. Bege finally gets Caesar to act by squeezing his heart, and Caesar rushes out of the fortress along with the Vinsmokes as Bege transforms back into his human form. The Big Mom Pirates immediately open fire as they see this, but the Vinsmokes block their bullets. However, Big Mom also responds by throwing Prometheus at Caesar and Bege, and Caesar flies away from the explosion in a panic. The explosion strikes Reiju, which her brothers do not pay any mind to, and as she gets up, Big Mom decides to attack her first. However, Luffy and Sanji suddenly appear from Bege's body and counter Big Mom's fist, to Reiju's shock. Luffy argues with Sanji, who wanted to be the only one going out, and the rest of their crew is appalled in fear as they watch the two of them take on one of the Four Emperors.

Caesar Clown, holding Capone Bege and the rest of the alliance, attempts to fly off the roof of the Whole Cake Chateau. However, Big Mom and her crew immediately kick into action, with Perospero bringing up a candy wall in an attempt to block Caesar's escape. Ichiji, Niji, and Yonji combine their attacks to destroy the wall and allow Caesar and Bege to pass through.
Meanwhile, Lu Feld spots the Tamatebako, which has fallen onto a lower landing of the Chateau. However, he is confronted by Stussy, who questions him on his intentions. Feld then slips and falls to where the Tamatebako landed. Feld is about to open the chest, but Stussy, who is revealed to be an undercover agent of CP0, shoots him with a flying Shigan. Stussy then claims that the Tamatebako will go to the World Government and orders the eavesdropping Morgans to pin the blame for the box's disappearance on Feld. He reluctantly agrees on the condition that she lets him see the contents of the sea treasure. However, Feld's unconscious body leans on the Tamatebako, causing it to drop towards the ground below.
Back on the roof, Big Mom confronts Monkey D. Luffy over his proclamation to defeat her back on Fish-Man Island. Sanji, however, prevents Luffy from directly confronting Big Mom, grabbing Luffy and telling him not to fall for her bait. Despite this, Luffy wriggles free of Sanji's grasp and declares to Big Mom that he, not she, will become the Pirate King. He attacks her with Gear 4, stating that he will take her down after he takes down Kaidou. After blocking the attack, Big Mom declares that Luffy will never defeat him and that she will ensure he never leaves her territory. Luffy falls back and deactivates his Gear 4 as Sanji grabs him and flees. Judge then charges at Big Mom, who thrusts his spear at her while he calls her a villain for betraying the dreams of the Germa Kingdom. Big Mom stops Judge's attack by biting off the tip of his spear, promising to make use of Germa's scientific powers before defeating him with an attack from Zeus.
In response to the sight of their father going down, Niji and Yonji abandon Caesar's escort and rushes back towards Big Mom. A distraught Caesar encounters a further obstacle when Katakuri appears before him. Katakuri, in turn, is attacked by Ichiji, but before Caesar can use the distraction to escape, he runs into a mirrored version of himself. Brulee manifests her face from Caesar's mirrored body, reminding him of the score she has to settle with the alliance. With his path blocked, Caesar turns around to see a desperate scene: Katakuri holding up a blood-ridden Ichiji; Big Mom holding Niji and Yonji in each hand; an unconscious Judge; and Galette, Daifuku, and Smoothie surrounding a slumped Luffy, Sanji, and Reiju, all restrained with Galette's Devil Fruit power. Caesar and Bege bemoan that the alliance was defeated, prompting Jinbe and Pedro to prepare to charge out. A gleeful Big Mom then announces that she will carry out the alliance members' execution.
Suddenly, an enormous explosion rocks the entire Chateau. The Tamatebako, having finally reached the ground, had smashed open upon impact, triggering the bomb within. The bomb blasts apart a huge section of the Chateau's base, rocking the entire Chateau as it tilts sideways and heads for a spectacular collapse.

When the Straw Hat Pirates were staying on Fish-Man Island, the Minister of the Right had begged King Neptune to ask them to return the Tamatebako they had received, as it would likely explode when opened. However, they found out in shock that Luffy had given it to Big Mom along with the rest of the treasure.
In the present, Whole Cake Chateau starts toppling over after the Tamatebako explodes at its base, and the citizens inside the building start panicking at the structural damage as Niwatori realizes the building is falling down. The citizens of Sweet City are shocked at the sound of the explosion, and run away from the toppling Chateau. Meanwhile, in the wedding venue on top of the Chateau, the Straw Hat-Fire Tank-Germa alliance regroups; Yonji says they were saved, but Niji replies that that has yet to be seen. The alliance members inside Bege's body are unsure of what is happening, and are awed by the sight in front of them. Brulee weeps in terror as Big Mom herself falls off of the venue, and Bege laughs triumphantly as he declares that the Big Mom Pirates are finished. In Sweet City, the citizens realize they cannot run away from the Chateau in time, and up above a panicked Galette falls off, only to be rescued by Katakuri, who tells her to calm down. Morgans is too entranced by the newsworthy event happening as he falls, and Stussy uses Geppo to save herself as she reflects that this could possibly spell doom for the Big Mom Pirates. As the Big Mom Pirates are left to fall, Caesar and the Vinsmokes fly the alliance far away.
However, Streusen drives his sword into the Chateau, cutting off the top part and turning it considerably softer. This allows it to be broken up by the buildings it falls on, protecting the citizens while cushioning the Big Mom Pirates' fall. Big Mom was cushioned by Zeus, and she eats some of the Chateau, remarking that Streusen's creations fill the belly but taste terrible. Mont-d'Or quickly stands back up and reorganizes the crew, ordering everyone to send word to everyone in Totto Land to prevent the enemy alliance from getting away. In the northwest part of Whole Cake Island, Bege ejects the Straw Hats from his body as they prepare to go their separate ways, and he gives Caesar his heart, allowing him to escape happily. However, Vito reports that the Big Mom Pirates survived thanks to Streusen, and the Straw Hats prepare to leave; Bege warns them that they will have to make a day's journey to escape from Totto Land. He then plants a sign in the ground pointing in the Straw Hats' escape direction for the Big Mom Pirates to follow them as he coasts away with Castle Tank, much to Sanji's ire. Bege's crew regrets not being able to say goodbye to their allies, and the Straw Hats prepare to take the Shark Submerge III back to the Thousand Sunny.
Meanwhile, Katakuri has Daifuku form up two groups: one to go after the Straw Hats, and one to go after the Fire Tank Pirates. Smoothie assures Big Mom that they will catch the enemy alliance, only to find Big Mom crying out for wedding cake as her eating disorder kicks in again, much to Smoothie's horror.

The citizens of Sweet City help each other recover from the wreckage caused by the toppling of the Whole Cake Chateau, and an appalled Count Niwatori asks his crewmates what happened. They reveal that the wedding ceremony and wedding cake were ruined, their plan to assassinate the Vinsmoke Family was sabotaged, and Bege had attempted to assassinate Big Mom. Niwatori was angered to hear of Bege's betrayal, and Compote wonders what could have possibly caused the explosion that toppled the Chateau. No one can think of an answer, but Niwatori reveals another piece of information: that communications were cut off to the tea party venue. Oven asks what needed to be communicated, and as Niwatori prepares to answer, Pekoms comes in and reveals that the Sun Pirates all ran away. The two then find out that Jinbe left the crew to join the Straw Hats during the tea party, and Daifuku reports to Katakuri that they have squads going after the Straw Hats, the Fire Tank Pirates, and the Germa Kingdom. Katakuri tells Brulee to come with him, and Brulee agrees to go with him, eager to get revenge on the Straw Hats. Katakuri plans to take out Luffy himself before the Straw Hat captain can become a serious threat to Big Mom.
Suddenly, Smoothie comes running up to her crewmates and tells them to get away from Sweet City, as she is pursued by Big Mom, whose eating disorder has manifested and caused her to go on a rampage for wedding cake. In Big Mom's hand is a dead Opera, which shocks the Big Mom Pirates, who know that standing up to Big Mom in this state is suicide. Smoothie desperately asks for Streusen, but it is revealed that Streusen took a hard fall while saving everyone and will take some time to recover. As the Big Mom Pirates get more and more frightened, Perospero lies to Big Mom that they made a spare cake, but the Straw Hats stole it. He reveals where the Straw Hats currently are, and the crew hopes that Big Mom will hear him. She does, but threatens to kill him should she find out that he lied. She then summons Zeus and uses him as transport to fly towards the Straw Hats, focused solely on getting wedding cake. The Big Mom Pirates are relieved but still stressed, especially Perospero, who knows that it will take days to make a good wedding cake, and that they lack the ingredients they had stolen from other islands. Katakuri points out that the island will be destroyed if Big Mom continues to cause rampage and what happens next is beyond his reach. However, Pudding arrives atop Rabiyan and reveals that she can make a chocolate chiffon cake on Cacao Island, as her skills as a chocolatier are greater than Streusen's skills as a chef. She knows that she can make the cake especially well with Chiffon's help, and her crewmates point out that Chiffon is currently affiliated with Bege, but Pudding says she can get her half-sister to help her as she brings out her Walker and her third eye is uncovered, creating an aura that strikes fear into the citizens. Pudding says she has all the ingredients at Cacao Island, including some reserve ingredients from other islands, and tells her crewmates to direct Big Mom to the island after she has vanquished the Straw Hats. She wishes to repay Big Mom for killing Sanji, believing that the Straw Hat cook insulted her by complimenting her third eye.
Meanwhile, Nami tells her crewmates to hurry up, which annoys Luffy, as she is riding on Jinbe's shoulders. The team approaches the Seducing Woods, and is hesitant about going back in there, but Nami suddenly sees Kingbaum, who has been resurrected with his sides sewn together and is currently romancing with a female tree homie. Nami calls out to Kingbaum, and the team rides on him once again, much to his bitter anger, as Nami had cut Lola's Vivre Card and still has one half after the other was taken. With Kingbaum, the team is confident they can cut through the Seducing Woods, though they notice that the Big Mom Pirates are pursuing them. Nami forces Kingbaum to go faster, but Big Mom suddenly comes flying in at that moment, and she bears down on the Straw Hats in a mad rage, telling them to hand over her cake as she wields Napoleon in its sword form.

As the Sanji Retrieval Team approaches the Seducing Woods, Big Mom and Zeus catch up with them. She draws Napoleon out and slices a large chunk off of Kingbaum. As Kingbaum pleads for his life, Nami asks him about Lady Tree, who is revealed to be his fiance. Baum resolves not to die here and pushes forward. Big Mom prepares for another attack; Luffy decides to fight Big Mom but Nami gets an idea. She uses her Clima-Tact to produce thunderclouds, which distracts Zeus. Attracted to the clouds, it begins to eat them, displacing Big Mom and causing her to miss her attack. Both Prometheus and Napoleon wonder what Zeus is doing and exclaim in disbelief that the Straw Hats are almost at the Seducing Woods. The homies make way for Kingbaum and Luffy notices the Thousand Sunny in the distance.
Zeus approaches them and asks Nami if she has any more thunderclouds he can eat, saying it has never had anything so delicious before. Luffy asks to ride it, but Zeus says that only Big Mom can due to giving him part of her soul. Nami says that if Zeus becomes her servant, she'll make him as many thunderclouds as he wants. Zeus is torn between betraying Big Mom and getting more clouds. Big Mom emits a scream, demanding that the Seducing Woods homies stop Kingbaum. The homies close the path they made but, determined to see Lady Tree again, Kingbaum begins to push through his subordinates. Prometheus hovers over Kingbaum and slams down on top of him, setting Baum and much of the Seducing Woods on fire.
Back at the ruins of the Whole Cake Chateau, Perospero and Daifuku are organizing ingredients to make the cake for Big Mom. Brulee is in communication with Mont-d'Or, proclaiming that there's 10,000 soldiers ready to be deployed to catch Capone Bege and the retreating Fire Tank Pirates. Mont-d'Or orders the tart ships and all other ships in the area to target the south west coast, where the Thousand Sunny is docked. At the same time, Katakuri is in place aboard the Sunny with the crocodile minister and some soldiers lying in wait for the Sanji Retrieval Team.
While Bege is fleeing, Pudding catches up to him and asks to speak with her sister Chiffon. Chiffon surmises that Big Mom is having an eating fit and Pudding is looking for her help, but refuses to come back. Pudding says that Big Mom will kill Sanji and the Straw Hats and is asking Chiffon for her help to stop their mother.

Chopper and Brook pilot the Shark Submerge III down the Juice River after initially struggling to get in due to the juice around it being covered in massive quantities of cream. Even the inside of the submarine is covered with cream from the giant sponge cake, and the two struggle to pilot it as Chopper notices a merman. As the two get closer to the Thousand Sunny, Chopper notices something else and tells Brook to look at it, though Brook declines, and Chopper wonders if the people he is seeing are fishing.
In the Seducing Woods, Jinbe explains Big Mom's eating disorder to Luffy as Big Mom continues to rampage after incinerating much of the forest. Jinbe points out that Big Mom's craving for wedding cake must be because Luffy destroyed the one at the ceremony, but Luffy brushes that aside. The homies of the Seducing Woods start attacking the Straw Hats, and they are left unsure of whether they are going in the right direction. They then come to the doughnut bridge they saw a few days earlier, which has been repaired. Nami says that they cannot trust this, knowing that the shape of the woods will change to keep them lost and revealing that the power of Lola's Vivre Card is nullified thanks to Big Mom's presence. Jinbe reminds Nami to continue feeding Zeus, as they will have no chance of escaping if Big Mom gets her cloud homie back. Big Mom shouts at Zeus to come back, and Prometheus expresses its agitation at its fellow homie's actions. In response, Nami offers Zeus the clouds from her weather egg, and Luffy attacks Prometheus to avenge Kingbaum. However, Luffy's hits, despite being imbued with Busoshoku Haki, do not harm Prometheus due to the homie being made of flames. As the Straw Hats race across the bridge, however, Jinbe stands in the river and fires multiple blasts of water at Prometheus, which stuns it.
A platoon of Big Mom Pirates cuts in front of Big Mom and catches up to the Straw Hats, with two of them attacking Pedro and Carrot. However, Jinbe and Luffy pull the minks away from fighting, as they could not afford to split up. While Nami is distracted, Zeus winds up eating her entire weather egg, causing it to swell up and become a black storm cloud. As it flies into the sky, Sanji pulls the shocked Nami along to keep her with the group, and as the Big Mom Pirates keep up their charge, Nami tells her crewmates to run as far away as they can. Zeus covers almost the entire sky, and Nami shoots a gust of wind at it, summoning a massive lightning bolt which strikes the Big Mom Pirates. The Straw Hats barely manage to escape the bolt's destruction, and on the Thousand Sunny, Perospero sees this and believes that Big Mom has finished off the Straw Hats with Zeus' power. Brook and Chopper look on in shock as they stand next to the Sunny on the Submerge, and Perospero tells them their crewmates have died. He questions if they still want to take back the Sunny even though it will be just the two of them, and gives them the opportunity to leave Totto Land if they wish. However, Brook and Chopper prepare to fight and take back the Sunny.
Up in the sky, Pudding and Chiffon fly toward the Seducing Woods on Rabiyan, and they look on in shock as they see the effects of Zeus' attack. Pudding apologizes for having Chiffon come to do this, but Chiffon is fine with it; as she had told Bege earlier, she wished to help Lola's saviors and repay them for their actions toward her twin sister. Chiffon told her husband that this is what it meant to be honorable, and told him to take care of Pez if anything happened to her as she flew away. Back in the present, the sisters see the Straw Hats, and Pudding points out Sanji. Her third eye comes uncovered, and Chiffon is confused by Pudding's fixation on Sanji.

The Straw Hats stare in shock at the massive hole created by Nami's Clima-Tact, but their joy is short-lived as they hear Big Mom's footsteps inside the hole and hear her calling out for wedding cake. They wonder if she can climb out of the hole, but Jinbe reveals that she is moving in another way as the Straw Hats realize that she is eating through the earth to come at them from below. Big Mom then surfaces, and the crew quickly starts running away again. However, they are soon approached by Pudding and Chiffon, and Luffy expresses his anger at Pudding for her deception. Pudding tries to get him to hear her out, but becomes extremely lovestruck when Sanji greets her, causing Chiffon to tell her to get her act together before Big Mom pulls herself back to her feet. Instead, Pudding goes through a mood swing, where she becomes murderous again and laughs at the Straw Hats' impending doom. Chiffon is appalled by this, and tries getting her back on track; the part of the Pudding in love with Sanji is shocked by the other side of her personality, but winds up slipping back into it. Luffy is exasperated by this, and Chiffon takes the lead and asks Sanji if he can help them make a cake to appease Big Mom, which he affirms. Pudding affirms Chiffon's statement, though her murderous personality tries to make it seem not the case, and the Straw Hats are flabbergasted by her behavior.
Sanji tries to get things back on track and asks where they will make the cake, and Chiffon says they will make it in Chocolat Town on Cacao Island, where they will bring it to Big Mom by ship. She encourages the Straw Hats to keep running from Big Mom until this is done, saying she believes in them. Big Mom, now back on her feet, wonders angrily why Pudding and Chiffon are consorting with the Straw Hats as she unleashes Ikoku on her enemies once again. Sanji tells Luffy they will meet back up again at sea, and gets on Rabiyan with Pudding and Chiffon as they barely avoid Big Mom's powerful slash. However, Pudding sees that the Straw Hats are going in the wrong direction, so she flies down to them and points them in the right direction. She then unleashes her Devil Fruit power on the Seducing Woods homies, causing the memories of the people whose souls inhabit them to come rushing into the homies for a brief period of time. While they are confused, Big Mom cannot control them, allowing the Straw Hats to get a clear path to the coast. Pudding then notices Sanji onboard, and quickly becomes conflicted with her emotions again, but Sanji quickly notices Chopper and Brook fighting onboard the Sunny as they pass over it. On the Sunny, Brook and Chopper stand battered though triumphant over several Chess Soldiers, but the homies continue pouring endlessly out of the Sunny's mirrors. They note that they are probably coming from the mirror in Nami's room, and decide to break it and apologize to her later. Perospero reminds them that the rest of their crewmates are dead, but Brook does not care to listen to him and prepares to continue fighting for the Sunny. Meanwhile, the Straw Hats finally see the coastline, and up in the air, Prometheus angrily berates Zeus for his actions earlier as Big Mom continues her rampage. Outside of Whole Cake Island, Sanji confidently leaves his trust in his crewmates as he goes with Pudding and Chiffon to make a cake to stop Big Mom.

The Big Mom Pirates remark about how many soldiers Brook and Chopper managed to bring down, but the two Straw Hats are now immobilized as Perospero covers them in candy. The candy rapidly progresses up Chopper's body, and Perospero reveals that once he is covered, he will be unable to breathe and the candy will seep into his body, turning the reindeer's entire body into candy and killing him within three minutes. Chopper cannot do anything more than cry out, and Perospero laughs at his agony, reminding them that he gave the two of them a chance to escape. Chopper's body is then completely covered in candy, and there is a clock atop his head ticking down until his death. Perospero then begins covering Brook in candy as Brook cries out, and Katakuri warns Perospero that they will have company soon. Perospero thinks Big Mom will be here soon and prepares to divert her to Pudding and Chiffon on Cacao Island, only to stare in shock as the Straw Hats arrive, still being chased by Big Mom. Katakuri realizes that it was their soldiers who got wiped out by the lightning bolt, and orders the soldiers on the Sunny to get back in the Mirro-World, as they would soon be knocked out by Luffy's Haoshoku Haki. The soldiers obey Katakuri and quickly retreat into the mirror.
Perospero commends the Straw Hats on getting this far, and attacks them with a giant candy iron maiden that is covered in spikes. Luffy prepares to attack it, and Perospero warns about the danger of doing so as he flaunts the spikes. Jinbe tells Luffy to go around it, but Luffy decides to go through it instead. To Perospero's shock, Luffy breaks through the Candy Maiden with Gomu Gomu no Red Hawk. Luffy then extends the punch to Katakuri, and Katakuri stretches his arm with mochi to parry it. With Big Mom on one side and Perospero and Katakuri on the other, Jinbe tells Luffy to get Katakuri off the ship so they can get out to sea, and Luffy barrages Katakuri with punches, but they do not inflict any damage as Katakuri turns his body into mochi. As the rest of the team gets onto the Sunny, Pedro tells Carrot not to be flustered by this turn of events as he believes that the Straw Hats are the people that the Kozuki Family has waited for hundred of years as well as the ones who will bring dawn to the world.
Perospero tells Mont-d'Or through Den Den Mushi to surround the coast with tarte ships, and Mont-d'Or complies. On the Sunny, Nami tells Jinbe about the Coup de Burst, and how it can fly them a kilometer away. The team prepares to use it to get away from the encroaching Big Mom, and Jinbe notices the candyfied Brook and Chopper before he sees a blockade of Candy Island and Nuts Island Tarte Ships surrounding them from the other side. Katakuri knocks Luffy down, and the Sunny suddenly becomes trapped in candy as Perospero laughs from the coast, causing the Straw Hats to become angry and frightened as they can no longer use Coup de Burst. Perospero waits for the Straw Hats' incoming doom from all sides, but is suddenly attacked by Pedro. Perospero manages to quickly block the mink's strike and subdue him, pinning him to the ground with his candy cane staff. He boasts in his fighting strength and bounty of 700,000,000, but to his surprise, Pedro reveals a collection of bombs in his jacket and lights them up. The Straw Hats watch in shock at the scene as the bombs go off, engulfing Pedro and Perospero in a massive explosion.

Five years ago after Big Mom agreed to remove 50 years of Pedro's lifespan, Pedro was escorted out of Totto Land on Perospero's ship. Perospero was impressed by Pedro's resolve in his confrontation with Big Mom, but noted that the 27-year old mink was now effectively 77 and would not have much longer to live. Pedro replied that at least he could now choose the way he died, and Perospero poked fun at his crew's name of Nox Pirates, given that Nox means night. However, Pedro responded that the night is what gives way to the dawn, as he remembered asking Gol D. Roger and Kozuki Oden to sail with them when he was a child. Roger told him to remain on standby, as his time was limited and the time for Pedro's turn would come later. Much later, when Pedro was training, Wanda told him that Roger had died. Taking Roger's words to heart, Pedro made it his goal in life to become the foundation of the Dawn of the World which the Straw Hats would bring.
In the present, Luffy yells out in shock and Carrot breaks down in tears as Pedro unleashes a suicidal explosion to take out Perospero, and Katakuri is shocked at the blow dealt against his older brother. The candy encasement on Chopper, Brook, and the Thousand Sunny melts away, freeing the Straw Hats, and Big Mom is blown away by the force of the explosion. A distraught Carrot tries running toward the scene of the explosion, but Nami holds her back, reminding her that Pedro's sacrifice saved their lives. Luffy orders everyone to set sail, saying that if they wasted their chance to escape, they would not be able to face Pedro. With Nami's help, Jinbe prepares to activate the Coup de Burst to fly them northwest, but Katakuri states that they are getting too worked up as he prepares to attack and the tarte ships surrounding the Sunny prepare to fire. Carrot rushes toward Katakuri, remembering how Pedro told Shishilian she would not be suited for the sword when she was training in it during her younger days, much to Shishilian's anger. Later, Pedro gave Carrot her signature gauntlets, telling her to prepare for the time when it is her turn.
In the present, Carrot attacks Katakuri, but the Sweet Commander easily subdues her with a stomp as he races toward Luffy. Luffy then attacks Katakuri and declares that the Sunny will set sail under his watch, and attacks Katakuri with Elephant Gun. Despite Katakuri trying to block it with mochi, Luffy manages to grab ahold of him, and Katakuri foresees what Luffy is going to do, which will prevent him from attacking anyone else. Luffy replies that Katakuri will be unable to prevent what he foresees, but things quickly take a turn for the worse as the tarte ships fire cannonball homies at the Sunny, Big Mom starts taking bites out of the ship's stern, and Perospero emerges from the explosion heavily injured but still alive. Luffy calls out to his teammates and says he will leave the rest to them as he grabs onto Brulee, who is standing inside a mirror nearby, and pulls himself and Katakuri into the mirror. With the cannonballs converging on them, the Sanji Retrieval Team activates Coup de Burst, unleashing massive explosive power into Big Mom as they fly above and away from the Big Mom Pirates' blockade. Amande reports that the Sunny has escaped, and inside the Mirro-World, Luffy stands against Katakuri. The Sweet Commander remarks that Luffy did a good job, and Luffy shatters the mirror leading to the Sunny as he and Katakuri prepare to have a real one-on-one fight.

Brook, Chopper, Carrot, and Nami mourn Pedro's self sacrifice and lament on their inability to save him, but Jinbe tells them to leave the crying to the Big Mom Pirates and that they must not falter. Brook is appalled at Jinbe's attitude, but Jinbe responds that he is telling them to keep their guard up, saying that Pedro was victorious in offering his life to help the team escape from certain doom on the coast of Whole Cake Island. At this point, it is all or nothing, with the Big Mom Pirates coming in full force after making a historic blunder, which is why Luffy took it upon himself to work toward their freedom by taking on Katakuri himself. With Jinbe's assertion that Pedro's sacrifice for their success is not achieved until they escape from Totto Land, Chopper gains the confidence to press on, and Nami has him take the helm as she charts the quickest route to Cacao Island. Brook goes to restock the cola they used for Coup de Burst, and Jinbe goes to monitor the current. Carrot leaps up to the crow's nest and sees not only the Big Mom Pirates' fleet heading toward them, but Big Mom herself, who seems to be walking on water. However, she is actually walking on a large block of moving candy provided by Perospero, who is sitting on Napoleon. Perospero wonders where Zeus is, but is content to help Big Mom himself, wanting to get revenge on the Straw Hats for Pedro blowing off his arm, meaning he has to create a candy arm that will melt when he drinks hot tea in the afternoon. On the western coast of Whole Cake Island, Zeus and Prometheus wonder where everyone is, with Prometheus wanting to consume fire.
In the sea of Totto Land, Pound is on a ship when he suddenly sees his daughter Chiffon flying over him with Sanji and Pudding. However, Chiffon does not notice him as she talks to Sanji, revealing that Lola held the position of Minister of Chocolate. When she left, her seat remained empty, as Pudding was the constant candidate for replacement and she kept rejecting the offer. Pudding states that she could not accept it because of her belief that Lola truly fits the position, and she did not want to take it in case she returns. Sanji notes that Lola was a master chocolatier, and then tells Pudding to get out of her hiding spot inside Rabiyan's folds. Pudding acts like she hates Sanji and claims that she did not want to be seen next to him and be mistaken as his wife, but she becomes lovestruck when Sanji tells her not to fall. As Pudding continues to be split on her feelings toward Sanji, the trio reach Cacao Island and prepare to make Big Mom a cake.
In the Mirro-World, the Big Mom Pirates inside tell Luffy to accept his defeat, as Katakuri is the strongest of the Three Sweet Commanders and Luffy has no way to get out of Mirro-World. Luffy attacks with Hawk Gatling, but Katakuri counters all his punches with fists create from his mochi tendrils. He then barrages Luffy with the tendrils, saying that he can match Luffy's abilities and overpower him in both speed and power. Luffy attacks him with a fast kick, but Katakuri dodges it and races in front of Luffy. Luffy uses his own Gear 2 speed to race behind Katakuri in the blink of an eye, but Katakuri sees this as well and kicks him in the face, sending him tumbling away. Katakuri predicts that Luffy will try to use some power next, and as Luffy activates Gear 3 and races to attack Katakuri with Elephant Gun, the Sweet Commander creates a giant fist out of mochi and counters Luffy's attack with an even bigger punch. With a tremendous amount of power, Katakuri pushes Luffy away and punches him into the wall, leaving the Straw Hat heavily injured as the other Big Mom Pirates cheer Katakuri on.

Pudding, Chiffon, and Sanji arrive at Chocolat Town on Cacao Island, where they are greeted. The people are shocked to see Chiffon, who is in handcuffs, but Pudding states that Bege is wholly to blame for the attempt on Big Mom's life. She had put the handcuffs on Chiffon earlier, saying that they would need to make it look like Chiffon was being threatened into doing this. One figure tells Pudding that he knows about the outrageous events that occurred during the wedding, and Pudding asks if he has made the necessary preparations. The man replies that he called Whole Cake Island's 31 most renowned chefs here an hour ago, and the other citizens are in awe at Pudding's dedication to fixing this mess. The WCI 31 report for duty, with all of their preparations completed. Pudding heads to the Sweets Factory, and tells the citizens that it is essential the cooks keep their focus during this crucial time, so the citizens should not let anyone to go or look inside the factory. They agree, and thinking about Sanji's status, Pudding tells the head chefs to enter the factory one at a time. The first head chef Buche steps in, and Pudding extracts a roll of memory from his mind.
Elsewhere inside the factory, Sanji emerges from his hiding place inside Rabiyan's folds, and Chiffon removes her handcuffs. Sanji reveals he sketched the wedding cake's design while he was hiding, and Chiffon is awed that he remembered not only the design, but also all the ingredients. Pudding comes in with a cooking outfit on and the head chefs come with her, and she and Sanji quickly become lovestruck when they see each other. One of the chefs refers to Sanji as Pudding's husband, and Pudding reveals that she erased their memories of the wedding incident and led them to believe that the two of them got married smoothly; the reason that the cake was destroyed was because of bad weather. The head chefs, with the previous cake baking still fresh in their minds, are amazed at Sanji's perfect cake design plan and point out that Sanji even recalled the hidden flavors that took Streusen a week to think of. One of them states that this is Sanji and Pudding's first project as husband and wife, which causes Pudding to collapse with joy before she immediately becomes enraged at the notion. Sanji has the chefs gather the necessary ingredients, and stations them at various jobs to assist Chiffon while she makes the chiffon cake and Pudding while she makes the chocolate for the next 2 hours and 40 minutes. After that, Sanji will add his secret ingredient which he calls the ultimate potential of sweetness. Sanji says they will leave in three hours, and decorate the cake on the ship before meeting with the Thousand Sunny and giving the cake to Big Mom. The chefs are skeptical of the short time frame they have, but Chiffon puts them back in line by reminding them that the country is in jeopardy from Big Mom. The cooks then start working.
In the Mirro-World, Katakuri talks to Perospero, who reveals that he barely managed to survive and is currently pursuing the Straw Hats with Big Mom. Perospero mocks Pedro's sacrifice as pointless and makes sure to say it clear so Luffy can hear; Luffy is currently lying on the ground a good distance from Katakuri, heavily injured. As Brulee regains consciousness, Katakuri calls out to her and tells her to help deploy their troops. Katakuri says that since Luffy has failed to protect his crew, they need to invade the Sunny and set fire to it. Brulee's siblings Mascarpone and Joscarpone come with a mirror leading into the Sunny, and Brulee tells them to go start a fire. Luffy stretches his arm out to try to break the mirror, but the siblings pull it out of harm's way and Luffy races toward them. Mascarpone and Joscarpone are scared, but Katakuri stomps Luffy into the ground with a mochi leg and reminds him that the two of them are supposed to be fighting one-on-one. Creating several mochi legs, Katakuri tells Luffy not to attack his siblings as he rapidly stomps the ground, which Luffy barely manages to dodge. Seeing some mirror shards, Luffy grabs one of them and calls out to Nami, telling her to break the remaining mirrors on the ship. Nami asks how he is going to get back if she does that, but Luffy replies that he will find a way. Brook is struggling to deal with the flaming arrows shot by Mascarpone and Joscarpone through the mirror into the bathroom, and Luffy races at the three Charlotte siblings again. However, Katakuri takes him down once again, and as the Big Mom Pirates prepare to invade the Sunny, Luffy presses on while Nami prepares to shatter the mirrors. However, Carrot calls out to Nami, pointing to a massive wave bearing down on them with Big Mom on top of it. With no way to escape, Nami tells Luffy that they might be done for after all.

Luffy inquires what is going on aboard the Sunny as Big Mom and her wave homie close in. Charlotte Perospero tries to prevent her from striking the Sunny by telling her that she will also sink the supposedly stolen wedding cake, but his words fall on deaf ears. As the Straw Hats cry in despair, Jinbe instructs Chopper, Carrot, and Brook to adjust the main sail and asks Nami what direction the wind is blowing. Nami incredulously asks if he is going to steer the ship with just the main sail. Jinbe tells them all to hold on and he steers the ship into the 'Green Room', a short lived pocket made inside the crest of a wave. Nami stares in awe at Jinbe's skill as he pilots the Sunny out of danger.
Meanwhile in the Mirro-World, Luffy wonders if the Sunny has survived while Brulee revels at the supposed destruction of the ship. Looking through the mirror to the Sunny, Joscarpone is curious as to why the ship does not appear to be underwater. As she states this, the mirrors begin to shatter with Mascarpone believing that it is due to the pressure the Sunny is experiencing underwater. Nami contacts Luffy through a mirror shard and asks him to get away from the others. He runs away, with only Katakuri noticing.
Luffy is notified that the Sunny survived and all the mirrors have been destroyed, per his orders. Nami notifies him that they are on their way to Cacao Island to meet up with Sanji, Pudding, and Chiffon, who are busy working on the replacement cake. Luffy is told to find a mirror that leads to Cacao Island after defeating Katakuri. Shortly afterwards, Katakuri traps Luffy with mochi and makes him fall, swallowing the shard. Katakuri then repeatedly kicks Luffy around and the latter narrowly escapes from getting smashed into the ground. After spitting out the pieces of glass, Luffy tells them to hurry. He struggles to stand up as Katakuri taunts him. Bringing his trident out from within his mochi, Katakuri predicts what Luffy will say and asks if he is certain he wants those to be his last words, with Luffy declaring regardless that he will not die here.

During the duel between Katakuri and Luffy, Brulee resumes taunting Luffy by telling him that he has no chance against the best of Big Mom's children. To Katakuri's exasperation, she tells Luffy of Katakuri's reputation for never having laid down once in his life, but is stopped when an irritated Luffy tries to strike her. Luffy's attack is intercepted by Katakuri, who grabs Luffy's arm and slams him into a wall of mirrors. Katakuri follows this up by attempting to strike Luffy with his spinning trident, Mogura, which Luffy only just manages to dodge. After the wall behind Luffy explodes from the force of the attack, Katakuri threatens to take Luffy apart piece by piece.
Back at sea, Perospero receives word from Brulee via Den Den Mushi that the Thousand Sunny had not been sunk by his and Big Mom's combined tidal wave homie. On Brulee's instructions, Perospero directs Big Mom towards Cacao Island, but Big Mom appears to divert course towards Nuts Island.
After a period of fighting, Luffy notes that dueling Katakuri was more tiring than usual because Katakuri was able to foresee where he planned to dodge, meaning that every evasion required extra effort. Katakuri also observes that his attacks have never been dodged so much, and so decides to use his awakened Devil Fruit powers to turn the ground of the Mirro-World into mochi. As the mochi wraps around Luffy, Luffy bites down on his arm, leading Katakuri to note Luffy's imminent activation of Gear 4.
In Sweet City, Mont-d'Or ponders why Totto Land's territorial sea slug network had not reported any sighting of the Straw Hats. At the same time, Pekoms grieves over the apparent death of Pedro, while Niwatori expresses his surprise at Pedro's self sacrifice. Despite Mont-d'Or's confidence, Niwatori points to all the unexpected incidents that had occurred since the Straw Hats arrived at Totto Land, and recommends the dispatch of a powerful division as a final line of defense.
Moments later, the Big Mom Pirates receive word from Custard that her group has lost sight of the Fire Tank Pirates, leading Mont-d'Or to order the inspection of the sea floor. On their ship, the Fire Tank Pirates are heading towards Cacao Island in order to rendezvous with Chiffon. Meanwhile, another communication informs Mont-d'Or that Germa 66 have been crushed by a separate squad, but the communication turns out to be from Niji (masquerading as Charlotte Nusstorte). Maintaining the charade, Niji asks Mont-d'Or about the Straw Hats' whereabouts and is informed that they are still not captured and heading west. Having defeated their pursuers, Ichiji issues the order for Germa 66 to set sail.

As Luffy begins to activate Gear 4, Katakuri traps him within a pile of mochi on the floor. He asks aloud why he would just sit and watch as Luffy powers up, claiming that he will not underestimate him like many of his siblings did. He then transforms the walls of the Mirro-World into mochi and buries Luffy with it in an attempt to suffocate him. Katakuri apologizes that their fight had to end like this, but commends Luffy on lasting longer than he expected. After noting that his snack time has been delayed due to their fight, Katakuri calls out to his chefs and they bring sweets to him. The chefs inform him that due to delay, Katakuri's daily black tea has cooled down. He brushes it off and after constructing a shrine out of mochi, tells the chefs not to disturb him or allow anyone inside.
While the chefs discuss Katakuri's power, Luffy eats his way out of the pile of mochi, much to their shock. An irritated Luffy states that he wanted an actual fight but all the enemies he has fought one-on-one so far have used food, asking if he has to keep eating in order to win. He then sees through the chef's lies about Katakuri leaving the Mirro-World as he sees the shrine and senses someone of great power inside, prompting the chefs to realize that he too can utilize Kenbunshoku Haki. They try to persuade Luffy from going inside, but he does not listen and breaks it apart with a well placed Elephant Gun. Inside, Katakuri is indulging himself by eating donuts and drinking tea while laying on his back as the chefs are surprised by this display until he realizes he is being watched.
Katakuri becomes furious that they saw him eating with his face exposed and brutally kills all the chefs when they mention a comment about his mouth by mistake. He then turns his attention to Luffy, remarking on his error for not ensuring Luffy's death as he lost all patience with Luffy and charges him. Enraged, he states that no one who has seen his face can be left alive. The two soon clash using Busoshoku Haki with Katakuri noting his superiority in it. His statement proves to be true as Luffy's hands become swollen after clashing with the Sweet Commander.
Katakuri prepares another punch but Luffy dodges and kicks him in the jaw, expressing surprise that it actually connected. Katakuri angrily dismisses it, proclaiming that his abilities still outweigh Luffy's. Luffy realizes that Katakuri is not truly invincible as he thought before and is able to finally activate Gear 4 and hits Katakuri with a Kong Gun.

After activating Gear 4, Luffy continues to pummel Katakuri with multiple Gear 4 attacks, eventually sending the Sweet Commander flying. Luffy proclaims that since Busoshoku Haki makes Logia types take form and it simply passed through Katakuri, he knew that he was not a Logia user. He notes that Katakuri's most notable trait is not his control over his Mochi Mochi no Mi abilities, but his Kenbunshoku Haki and declares that his Gear 4 form will not be beaten by him. Katakuri glares at him but is impressed that Luffy was able to figure it out and wonders aloud how long it has been since he actually was hit by an opponent. He mentions that if a Kenbunshoku Haki user is not calm or collected, they will be unable to use the ability. He comments that he is beginning to realize how Luffy was able to overcome Charlotte Cracker. He then traps Luffy within mochi and lands a direct hit squarely on his chest, smashing him through several walls. Katakuri comments that Luffy is back to square one.
On Cacao Island, Pound approaches the Sweets Factory and asks to see Chiffon despite the guards insisting that Pudding requested no one to enter. Inside, Pudding, Chiffon, and Sanji continue working on the cake when Brulee informs Pudding that the Straw Hat's ship will be arriving at the island at roughly 1am to meet back up with Luffy. She proclaims that Luffy will never beat Katakuri and get there in time and that they will be destroyed by Big Mom during her eating fit.
At the same time, Oven arrives at the island and is curious why no one, not even other members of the Charlotte family are allowed inside. Regardless, he heeds the request but gets curious about the commotion outside the factory. He notices Pound and decides to throw him out, despite the latter's pleas. Pudding is worried about Luffy, saying that Katakuri has never lost to anyone. Sanji smiles and states that Katakuri will suffer his first loss.
As the Thousand Sunny continues to journey towards Cacao Island, Nami is curious why there are no pursuers. Jinbe notes this as well, hoping that Aladine and the other Sun Pirates made it out safely. While Mont-d'Or is informed that Big Mom is attacking Nut Island, he's notified that all the territorial sea slugs have mysteriously disappeared. He incredulously asks what happened to them and it's revealed that Praline had been singing to all the sea slugs, rendering every single one inactive and opening the path for everyone to escape from Totto Land.

Luffy is upset that he lost the advantage against Katakuri and launches a Kong Gun at him, but it gets deflected. Katakuri launches an attack of his own which knocks Luffy back and bouncing against the wall. The Sweet Commander proclaims that the only thing he's proved is that as long as he stays calm, Luffy will not be able to defeat him. Angry, Luffy confidently states that he'll find another weakness. When Katakuri notes that Luffy will be shriveling up, Luffy realizes that his Gear 4 will wear out soon. He then retreats from the battle, but Katakuri refuses to let Luffy go and chases after him. Luffy's Gear 4 deactivates, but he continues to flee. Just then, Luffy finds Brulee sitting close to a nearby mirror. Luffy then grabs her and jumps through a mirror. Katakuri tries to catch Luffy but fails.
Unfortunately, the place where Luffy escapes to is Nuts Island and he stares ahead as Big Mom continues to search for wedding cake. Both Charlotte Perospero and Charlotte Amande try to dissuade her from destroying the island, but both are ignored as she tears the city apart. Perospero then notices Luffy and informs Big Mom, who now shifts her attention to both him and Brulee. Perospero tries to stop Luffy, who is still holding Brulee captive, from escaping with a Candy Wall and Luffy tries to break it with a Gigant Pistol, but it has no effect. Amande then tries to attack Luffy, but he dodges the strike and jumps over the wall. Luffy continues to run from Big Mom and Perospero.
Aboard the Thousand Sunny, Nami and Jinbe continue to scout the unnaturally calm sea. Nami theorizes that they must regroup with Sanji and the others to avoid being faced with Big Mom's unbridled fury. Elsewhere on the sea, the Big Mom Pirates have assembled with the Queen Mama Chanter and a fleet of Tarteships. Charlotte Mont-d'Or rallies them to go after the Straw Hats, the Fire Tank Pirates, and the Sun Pirates who are trying to flee the archipelago. He orders them all to be sunk on sight immediately.
At Cacao Island, one of the chefs faints from the sweetness of Sanji's secret ingredient, the whipped simsim cream. Charlotte Pudding wants to try it too, but Sanji says that they will need it for the cake. Chiffon informs them that the cake is finished baking, and both the whipped cream and Pudding's chocolate are ready too. Noting that they are running on schedule, Sanji asks about the preparations to move the cake aboard a ship. After hearing that they are ready to set sail, Sanji tells them that they will add the finishing touches to the cake while rendezvousing with the Thousand Sunny.

Pudding calls for the Cacao Island citizens to clear the way as the base wedding cake is brought outside, and everyone admires how it was made in such a short time. They admire Pudding, Chiffon, and the WCI 31 for accomplishing this, and the chefs who had their memories altered wonder why Sanji is in disguise. As Pound sees Chiffon from a distance away, Oven stops the carriage. Pudding tells him of her intention to take the cake out to sea to minimize the destruction caused by Big Mom, and Oven lets her pass, but he attacks Chiffon by punching her into the ground. Despite Pudding and the citizens' protests, Oven does not relent due to Chiffon's compliance in Bege's assassination attempt on Big Mom. However, Chiffon refuses to give ground either, intent on continuing to repay her debt to Nami and the Straw Hats. Sanji wants to help, but knows exposing himself will cause Pudding to be viewed as a traitor.
Oven grabs Chiffon by the neck and heats up his other fist with his Devil Fruit power, but before he can attack, Pound comes rushing in to protect his daughter. Chiffon and Sanji have no idea who he is, but Sanji takes the opportunity and rushes toward Oven in the blink of an eye. Too fast to see, Sanji kicks Oven in the neck right before Pound's fist is about to reach him. The blow sends Oven crashing into a building, and Sanji takes Chiffon back to the carriage at a rapid speed. Oven gets up with his neck hurting and face bruised and though he is confused, Oven knows his stepfather did not lay a hand on him as he quickly dispatches him with a punch. He then races toward the carriage and quickly finds Chiffon hiding under a blanket. He then receives a call reporting that Bege is heading towards Cacao Island. Delighted by the news, Oven contacts Bege, telling him that he has captured Chiffon and ordering him to disembark and surrender at the port. Chiffon shouts at Bege to leave her there and escape so he could avenge her later, causing Oven to strike her, and Bege seemingly agrees to Oven's ultimatum. Big Mom's forces get into position to besiege the Nostra Castello as it draws toward Cacao Island. While approaching the port, Bege shoots Oven in the face with an explosive round. Oven is sent flying back, and the Fire Tank Pirates celebrate as the Big Mom Pirates' fleet goes on the offensive. Despite being surrounded and Oven only getting angry from the shot, Bege is brimming with confidence.
Meanwhile, the Straw Hats on the Thousand Sunny see Big Mom's forces as they approach Cacao Island, and as they prepare to fight, Carrot wonders if it is a full moon tonight. Elsewhere, numerous islands report seeing Luffy intruding with Brulee as Katakuri continues to wait in the Mirro-World. While hiding inside a building, Brulee wonders what Luffy is up to, and Luffy says that he can deplete Katakuri's Kenbunshoku Haki by drawing out the battle, but also knows that it will not do him any good. After remembering Rayleigh telling him that Haki becomes stronger by battling strong enemies, Luffy expresses an interest in seeing the future like Katakuri does before declaring that he will defeat Katakuri at full strength.

The citizens of Cacao Island are shocked to see that Bege shot Oven. The soldiers under Oven's command declare that they are surrounded. Oven stands up, saying that he will personally execute Bege. Pudding nervously asks Chiffon what they should do now that they are completely blocked off from the harbor. Despite the odds, Bege orders the Nostra Castello to continue forward. Once the ship reached the coast, the paddles turn into tank treads, revealing that the ship is amphibious and can travel on land as well. Oven is thunderstruck by this, ordering his men to fire at both Bege and the ship. Bege tells Chiffon and the WCI31 to pass them the cake. The chefs say that there's no way to safely transfer it over, but Sanji kicks the carriage and launches it onto Bege's ship. Oven is surprised to see the cake move as well, wondering how a mere cook can have that much power to move something that large with just one leg.
After the cake lands safely aboard the Nostra Castello, Chiffon and Bege embrace with Pez while Pudding gets lovestruck with Sanji once more. Despite his men begging Oven to move, the latter does not budge and declares that he will stop the ship. The Nostra Castello promptly runs him over, shocking Oven's subordinates. Chiffon tells Bege that they must travel to the southeastern seas. Both Bege and Pudding note that the only way to get there is by land, which will result in the destruction of some of the chocolate houses. As they leave, Chiffon notices Pound smiling and waving at them and again doesn't recognize him as her father. However, Pez notices his grandfather and happily waves back. The Nostra Castello later reaches the sea.
As Bege corrects Sanji after the latter thanked him for the save, Vito notices the fish in the area have been boiled and are floating. It's revealed that Oven survived getting run over and is heating up the sea with his Devil Fruit powers. They realize the sudden increase in heat has destroyed some of the Nostra Castello paddles and will also damage the cake. Suddenly, Pez starts to laugh and wave towards the shore. Chiffon looks and sees that Pound is lunging towards Oven with a large club. He strikes Oven against the back of the head, shattering his club. Oven glares as he slowly raises his arm out of the ocean, lowering the temperature back to normal. Pound notes that he was supposed to fall into the ocean as Oven menacingly approaches his stepfather. Pound waves one more time at Pez as he silently tells his grandson that his mother and father will take good care of him.
Pound remembers when both Chiffon and Lola were born and Big Mom immediately discarded him before he even had a chance to hold his two newborn daughters. He adjusts his tie as Oven swings a large heated blade at his neck. Pound silently apologizes for not being there for either of his daughters, but is grateful he was able to see Chiffon happy at least once in his life. As he congratulates Chiffon for her marriage, Pez starts to cry uncontrollably as Oven strikes Pound.
Aboard the Thousand Sunny, the Straw Hats, Jinbe, and Carrot find themselves pursued by Big Mom and a fleet of Tarteships once again. They resolve to keep going while Sanji orders the chefs to start decorating the cake.

Luffy returns to the Mirro-World to confront Katakuri once more. Curious about this, Katakuri asks why Luffy returned. He ponders if Luffy came to die instead of being ashamed of running away or if he recognized the difference in strength and want to ask to join the Big Mom Pirates. Luffy responds by launching several punches at him, declaring he came back to defeat him. Katakuri dodges the strikes and says that was not one of the options given.
Out at sea, the Big Mom Pirates pursuing the Thousand Sunny begin to launch cannonball homies but they are tricked by Nami and veer off-course. One of the commanders, Charlotte Bavarois, curses that the cannonballs were useless. One of his crew members comments that Big Mom may not have much control over the homies when she is not in her right mind but mentions that they have effectively surrounded the Straw Hat Pirates. Daifuku's fleet appears in front of the Thousand Sunny while Smoothie and her fleet joins Big Mom's fleet from the rear. Perospero gives Daifuku permission to sink the ship while he and Big Mom are heading towards Cacao Island. Perospero notes that Big Mom has slimmed down considerably due to pursuing the Straw Hats for so long. Daifuku orders the ship's guns to take aim and fire when ready and, seeing what happened when the homie cannonballs were used, demands that the crew use only the cannonballs without faces.
Aboard the Sunny, Brook decides that the only thing they can do is go right through the fleet ahead of them and pulls out his sword. Jinbe notes that Daifuku is the one aboard the ship directly in front of them and reminds them that he has a genie. Chopper takes out a Rumble Ball and wants Jinbe to get close to one of the ships so he can go wild on them, but Carrot volunteers instead. As a full moon rises, Carrot transforms into a Sulong, surprising both the Straw Hats and Big Mom Pirates. Nami recalls back on Zou when Inuarashi said to them that they will show the true power of Mink Tribe in their next fight. A member of Daifuku's ship recognizes the threat Carrot now poses, with Daifuku remembering that Pedro was a mink from Zou and wonders if Carrot is from Zou as well.
Carrot dives off the top of the Sunny and as she is about to hit the water, changes course in mid-air and rapidly approaches Daifuku's ship. Daifuku's crew opens fire on her but she dodges the gunshots and proceeds to rapidly strike down numerous Big Mom Pirates. When Nami asks Chopper what's going on, he can only stare in awe. Daifuku laughs at Carrot's intention to fight them all by herself and tells her to give up, but he stops talking when Carrot destroys the helm of his ship.

Daifuku summons his genie to attack Carrot, and with a single swing of its halberd, it demolishes multiple Tarte ships, but it does not hit Carrot as she jumps up with the helms of multiple ships in hand. The Straw Hats are awed at her display of abilities, and Jinbe explains the Sulong form to them. Initially, it caused the minks to lose their minds and attack indiscriminately, and they would die within one night from exhaustion. Brook then goes off to provide assistance to Carrot, and uses his sheer speed to run across the ocean. While Carrot and Brook deal with Daifuku's fleet, Nami and Chopper turn their attention to the fleet attacking them from the rear. Meanwhile, Bavarois notices that Big Mom is acting strange as she is growing skinnier and gasping for breath, calling for Zeus and Prometheus. Perospero notes that these eight hours are the longest Big Mom has gone without her food craving being satisfied, and that she would be an unknown force to deal with from now on. Bavarois then reports that although Pudding is transporting her wedding cake in their direction, she is doing it on Bege's ship, which appalls Perospero, who bets that the cake will be sabotaged.
On the Nostra Castello, Sanji adamantly refuses Bege's ideas to put poison or explosives in the cake, and Bege points out that this is a big opportunity to take out one of the Four Emperors. Sanji said that a cook's pride is on the line, and claims that the taste alone will defeat Big Mom. Bege is incredulous, knowing how many different kinds of sweets Big Mom has had in her lifetime, but Sanji stops him by feeding him some of his whipped cream, which instantly causes Bege to be overwhelmed with pleasure at the taste. Sanji says that Bege can try to assassinate Big Mom afterwards, but his goal is to fulfill the obligations of a cook. This causes Pudding to become lovestruck and fall over, and Chiffon backs up Sanji's argument to her husband. The chefs are almost done covering the cake with the cream, with two of them succumbing to the aroma, and Sanji hopes his crew is safe as he draws closer to them.
Meanwhile, Zeus and Prometheus are making their way back to Big Mom, and Zeus blames the long journey ahead on Prometheus wanting to eat fire. This enrages Prometheus, who points out how Zeus went against Big Mom when he let Nami use him. Elsewhere, Daifuku's fleet is in full disarray with the ships no longer being able to move, and the Straw Hats see an opening to escape. Carrot continues attacking, wondering how much is left as her consciousness starts to fade. As she dodges one of Daifuku's attacks, Brook comes up to her, having put one of the ships to sleep. Saying they have done enough, Carrot blocks her vision of the moon to revert back to her normal form as Brook carries her back to the Sunny. They return, but as Perospero and Bavarois witness the chaos of Daifuku's fleet, they suddenly see Big Mom getting ready to attack as she has Napoleon transform into a blade before she leaps out toward the Sunny. With Zeus and Prometheus having arrived, Big Mom rides the former as she heads for the Sunny with all her special homies out in full force. She then lands on the Sunny and demands her cake, and Jinbe tells the crew to prepare to abandon ship.

As Bavarois and Perospero remark on Big Mom's new physical state, the slimmed-down Emperor tears through the upper deck to find the cake she craves. She sees nothing, and Jinbe affirms that there is no cake on the ship, but Big Mom refuses to believe him because that would mean Perospero lied to her and she would have to kill him. Perospero is aghast that his mother remembers her promise, but Big Mom is unable to believe that her eldest son would lie to her as she brings out Napoleon and engulfs it in flames. Jinbe blocks the massive hat-sword with Busoshoku Haki-imbued arms, but even though he stops it for a brief moment, Big Mom quickly overwhelms him with strength and sends him flying into the ocean. Big Mom looks inside the upper deck for the cake, and Nami tries to stop her, as Carrot is resting in there. Big Mom says Nami will have to make her stop as she cleaves into the upper deck with Napoleon, and Brook notices Prometheus is lighting the sails on fire. Big Mom attempts to smash Nami into the floor, but Chopper activates Guard Point and blocks her attack. As Brook frets about the Sunny being on fire, Jinbe suddenly sends a big sea current to douse the ship, which weakens Prometheus. The fish-man then jumps up and uses a powerful Fish-Man Karate technique, punching Big Mom's chest with such great force that she falls off the ship.
Big Mom is quickly rescued by Zeus, and the Straw Hats celebrate Jinbe's attack as they try to make the most of it, but know that Big Mom will soon recover. Big Mom then decides to slice the entire ship in half to find the cake as Napoleon extends its blade. In response, Nami offers Zeus some thunderclouds, but it refuses to succumb to the temptation again and attacks her. However, Brook takes the attack in Nami's place, being immune to lightning due to not having any flesh. Big Mom recognizes Brook, saying he was unable to scratch her in their last battle. However, Brook distracts her by asking to see her panties, allowing him to bisect Zeus in the blink of an eye. He reveals that the crew's goal was to take out Zeus, and Nami sends her thunderclouds in between the two halves of the cloud homie. This makes Zeus discharge its full power, engulfing Big Mom in a massive blast of electricity, much to the shock of her children. The Sunny quickly moves to escape after this, and Brook brings a smaller and weakened Zeus back to the ship. Nami then asks Zeus if it would like to serve her or die. However, Big Mom remains in the air on top of Prometheus, and she orders it to chase after the Sunny.

In Hakuriki Town on Komugi Island, the citizens were shocked by mirrors breaking due to the battle between Katakuri and Luffy in the Mirro-World. They comment their surprise on how long this fight has gone. On Whole Cake Island, Count Niwatori also remarks on this after seeing that it is already 9:30 PM. Next to him is a table where Stussy and Morgans sit, and Stussy reveals to Niwatori and Mont-d'Or that the Tamatebako given to them by the Straw Hats and Fish-Man Island was the cause of the explosion that toppled the Whole Cake Chateau.
In the Mirro-World, the 36th daughter of the Charlotte Family and leader of the Katakuri Fan Club, Charlotte Flampe, orders her subordinates to assist her older brother Katakuri by sniping at Luffy. However, Luffy is too fast and the snipers keep missing, causing her to stab one of them with a fork. She reveals that since Katakuri is the favorite of all his younger brothers and sisters, she needs to work to gain his favor so she can be the favorite of all her 41 older brothers. She also does not want Katakuri to have this much trouble taking down Luffy, who is still very persistent even at a disadvantage. Luffy gets up from the floor, but Katakuri quickly creates more mochi donuts and assaults him again with mochi arms. Luffy unsuccessfully attempts to dodge, but the Sweet Commander hits him with a mochi kick and sends him crashing into the wall while smothering him with mochi. However, Luffy breaks out through the other side of the wall, and Katakuri states that falling down is itself shameful. Predicting Luffy's actions perfectly, Katakuri hits him in the head and then the shoulders to prevent him from getting up and attacking. Luffy does manage to regain his calm and counter Katakuri's giant punch, and though he is overpowered again, Katakuri notes that he is managing to see into the future infrequently. The Sweet Commander tells Luffy to give up, saying that Big Mom's fleet will take out the Straw Hats before they can make it to Cacao Island, and will be lying in wait for Luffy should he make it out of the Mirro-World. However, Luffy disregards Katakuri's statement and promises to make it out of the Mirro-World.
On the Nostra Castello, Sanji's team completes the wedding cake, and everyone onboard celebrates. Sanji thanks Pudding and Chiffon for helping him, and Pudding has a mood swing, threatening that the Big Mom Pirates may have already destroyed the Straw Hats and Big Mom may not even like the cake. As Chiffon scolds her, she then reverts back to her nice personality and gasping in shock at her words. Both Sanji and Luffy then say that they will head back to their crew because the others are believing in them.
At sea, Chopper activates Monster Point, amazing Perospero. With Prometheus increasing tremendously in size and the ocean water not enough to stop it, Chopper prepares a last-ditch effort to grab Big Mom and drag her into the ocean with him. However, Nami sees the Nostra Castello in the distance, and Big Mom catches the scent of the cake's aroma.

The Sunny crew is happy to see Sanji heading toward them on the Nostra Castello, and Big Mom catches the scent of the wedding cake heading toward her. Bege notices the Sunny's situation and has his crew man their positions, but Sanji dances on the ship's bow as he calls out to Nami. As the Straw Hats and Big Mom Pirates watch Sanji dance from afar, Perospero and Bavarois' fleet notices the cake, but Perospero is suspicious of Bege poisoning the cake. However, he is facing with the dilemma of having Big Mom's rampage becoming unstoppable if he destroys it. Bege declares to Sanji that he will be taking the cake and keeping his promise not to make a move against Big Mom until she eats it. Sanji is fine with his plan and heads to the Sunny with Pudding on Rabiyan, with the flying carpet going fast enough to avoid being noticed by Perospero and Bavarois. Big Mom pursues the Nostra Castello with Prometheus and Napoleon at the ready, and while Perospero and Bavarois follow her, Sanji returns to the Sunny and is embraced by Nami and Brook. Sanji tells Jinbe about Bege's plan to try assassinating Big Mom again after feeding her, and takes note of the damage wrought on the Sunny. He then asks where Carrot and Pedro are, and Brook lies that Pedro, who is presumably dead, is resting below deck alongside Carrot.
Bege contacts Perospero, plainly telling him that they are only going to feed Big Mom and then leave. This only makes Perospero more suspicious, and he decides for him and Bavarois to pursue Bege and Big Mom while Smoothie leads her fleet after the Sunny. Smoothie and her sisters Citron and Cinnamon are eager to get moving, and Smoothie orders her troops to prepare for battle as they chase after the Straw Hats. On the Sunny, Sanji reveals that the Big Mom Pirates found out about their plan to rendezvous with Luffy on Cacao Island, and there are likely fleets waiting to ambush them. As the Fire Tank Pirates gleefully anticipate Big Mom's consumption of the cake, the Sunny crew quickly spots Smoothie's fleet pursuing them and they think of what to do when they get to Cacao Island in three hours. Sanji only has the idea of possibly passing through the island.
Meanwhile, the Big Mom Pirates form a blockade on Cacao Island on Oven's command to barricade it from the Straw Hats. They voice doubts on whether or not this much force is necessary, but Oven is in contact with Mont-d'Or, who revealed the Tamatebako's role in the Whole Cake Chateau's collapse. As a result, the Big Mom Pirates have no intention of taking the Straw Hats lightly. Oven then orders the Cacao Island citizens to break all of their mirrors, revealing that only the one in front of him would be kept intact. If Luffy escapes, he will have no option but to go through that one, and the Big Mom Pirates will execute him. He threatens to execute the citizens' families if they do not comply, which spurs them into action.
In the Mirro-World, Katakuri overpowers Luffy once again, but as he continues taunting the pirate, he recognizes that Luffy's skill in Kenbunshoku Haki is slowly approaching his own. A bullet suddenly hits Luffy in the leg, and to avoid even the slimmest chance of Luffy surpassing him, Katakuri uses Mochi Tsuki. Affected by the bullet, Luffy is unable to dodge the attack in time and is struck in his left side by Mogura, causing him to scream in pain while Flampe laughs.

Charlotte Katakuri mocks Luffy for not being able to block the piercing blow to his side, and repeatedly tries to hit Luffy again with his spear. Finally, he strikes Luffy with a constant barrage of punches that cracks the ground around Luffy. Katakuri expresses his disappointment, saying that he was just starting to acknowledge Luffy's skill. As Luffy is lying on the ground, he recalls more of his training with Silvers Rayleigh and gets back on his feet.
During these attacks, Flampe and her subordinates continue to laugh at how Luffy still gets up again and again despite suffering more damage at the hands of Katakuri. When she sees Luffy rises once more, she decides to try to shoot him again only to see him dodge and subsequently fall back to the ground. She bursts out laughing, catching the attention of Katakuri. Despite her subordinates trying to keep her quiet, Flampe still laughs and becomes awe-struck when she sees Katakuri starting to approach her. While Flampe dreams about how Katakuri will reward her for helping him in the fight, Katakuri silently chastises her for her actions and notes that Luffy had suddenly lost his focus in the midst of battle right before he was stabbed.
One of Flampe's subordinates notices Luffy standing again and tries to warn her, but she doesn't listen and flies towards Katakuri with her arms outstretched. Angered at their laughing, Katakuri wounds himself in the same spot as Luffy, with some of his blood getting on Flampe's face and shocking everyone present. He takes off his scarf and angrily berates Flampe and her subordinates for interfering with a one-on-one duel, stating that if they laugh at Luffy, they should also laugh at Katakuri. Flampe and the others seemingly do not hear him, being solely fixated in shock and horror at his distorted mouth. Flampe recoils away, losing all respect towards him and calls him a monster. As Katakuri walks away, he has a flashback to his youth when the other children ran away from him while ridiculing his mouth. Flampe spits on Katakuri's face and mocks him, ordering her subordinates to take pictures so she can reveal his deformity to all the inhabitants of Totto Land.
Katakuri returns to where Luffy is standing and apologizes for his sister's interference. Luffy responds that there is no such thing as fairness during a pirate duel. They both agree that the spectators watching them are noisy and the two unleash a combined blast of Haoshoku Haki, causing Flampe and her subordinates to faint. Before passing out, Flampe expresses shock that Luffy can use it as well.
Katakuri throws away his jacket and finally tells Luffy that he no longer sees him as an inferior warrior. The two prepare to square off once more, with Luffy declaring that he will still be victorious.

During Luffy's training, Silvers Rayleigh mentions that every enemy attack has an intent and motive. Luffy smells Rayleigh's food in the distance and is able to pinpoint its location. Luffy strikes the pot, angering Rayleigh and causing him to strike Luffy. He says that he can sense emotions like anger, and Rayleigh continues striking him in an attempt for Luffy to learn how to use Kenbunshoku Haki. Later on as Luffy lies on the ground hungry, several of the animals on the island hear Luffy's stomach growling and approach him with some food to give, but Luffy refuses the offerings. Some time later, Rayleigh continues to instruct Luffy about Kenbunshoku Haki and how it can be used to sense other people's movement as well as to see glimpses into the future. When Luffy asked about people's personalities as well, Rayleigh admits that he never considered that aspect and tells Luffy that he will do his best to make Luffy capable of achieving his full potential.
In the present, Luffy can read the flow of Katakuri's incoming attacks and is able to dodge them. As Luffy charges at Katakuri, the latter is able to land a blow on Luffy, who then blocks the other punches, despite injuring his hands. Both then land significant blows on the other. Luffy gets blown backwards when Katakuri launches his right arm at him. As Katakuri reforms his arm, Luffy suddenly charges him and decks him across the face. They continue to trade devastating blows to each other.
Now with the cake aboard the Nostra Castello, Capone Bege is confident that the Big Mom Pirates following them will not be able to attack them recklessly. As they approach Liqueur Island, he praises his crew with repairing the burnt paddles caused by Oven. Vito notes that while Prometheus is still following them, it has grown sluggish due to its now gargantuan size. Both Vito and Bege propose dropping the cake off at the island, but Chiffon notes that it is not far enough from Cacao Island and they will need to go to Funwari Island located farther out. She rationalizes that if the cake dropped at Liqueur Island, Big Mom will still have enough time to catch up with Nami and the Straw Hats.
Aboard the Thousand Sunny, Nami and Brook see another attack is coming from behind and orders Jinbe to swerve to the left, avoiding an air slash from Smoothie. Jinbe tells Nami that he trusts in her navigational skills and she then takes command of the ship. Brook is amazed to see how big Smoothie has become, wondering if she is a giant. Aboard Smoothie's ship, Citron and Cinnamon beg Smoothie to not grow larger in fear of her size damaging their own ship. Smoothie curses Jinbe for steering away and avoiding every single ranged attack from her. Elsewhere, Sanji and Pudding ride on Rabiyan heading for Cacao Island. Sanji thanks Pudding for helping him and the others make the cake, causing Pudding to become extremely flustered. On Cacao Island, many of the Charlotte siblings join Oven to intercept the Straw Hats when they arrive, including the Charlotte Decuplets and the former Sweet Commander Snack.
Back in the Mirro-World, Katakuri roars at Luffy if he is finished fighting him. Luffy stand back up on shaky legs once again and activates an unseen form of Gear 4 known as 'Snakeman'.

Luffy activates Gear 4: Snakeman. The form only marginally inflates his arms and legs, but he states that he is much faster as he shoots an extremely fast punch at Katakuri. The attack seemingly misses, only to come back and hit Katakuri in the face. Luffy then strikes again, and Katakuri notices an attack coming for his side, but he is unable to defend fully against it as the strike knocks him away. He recovers and dodges another punch aimed straight at him, but realizes this time that it is wrapping around to hit him in the side and dodges it again. However, Luffy says that it is useless as his arm continues to not only keep changing direction, but increase in speed as it does so, and he successfully hits Katakuri and sends him crashing into a wall.
Katakuri quickly recovers, and Luffy shoots another punch at him, but the Sweet Commander dodges it as he shapes himself into a donut and rolls toward Luffy. Powered by his momentum, Katakuri then swings out a mochi arm covered in flaming Busoshoku Haki and spikes and rams it into Luffy with great force, which he calls Zan Giri Mochi. The stickiness of the mochi prevents Luffy from escaping as Katakuri swings his arm around before slamming it into the ground, sending Luffy crashing through the floor of Mirro-World and creating a small chasm.
Luffy briefly expresses the pain he felt from that attack before jumping up to face Katakuri, and the two exchange rapid punches. The exchange ends with both of them being forced back, and after Luffy's next punch is foreseen and countered by Katakuri, Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Black Mamba to move his punches around in every direction at great speed. However, Katakuri manages to gracefully dodge the attacks and kicks Luffy away before bending into a circle and rolling toward Luffy again. He says that this is the end, and Luffy counters that he will bring forth the end instead as he blows into his arm while moving his punch around toward Katakuri. Luffy's forearm expands as he unleashes Gomu Gomu no King Cobra against Katakuri's Zan Giri Mochi, and the two of them engage in a massive clash.

At 12:28 AM on Cacao Island, one of the decuplets ponders the possibility of Luffy beating Katakuri and is quickly chided, with even Oven refusing to recognize any chance of it happening. Raisin suggests that Luffy will attempt to capture Brulee, and his crewmates readily agree with that possibility. Unbeknownst to them, Sanji is hiding in a nearby alley, and notes grimly that if Luffy cannot quickly lose the hordes of pirates then they will both meet their end. He tells Pudding, who is sitting farther down the alley, that they will have to part ways when Luffy comes out, and he remembers the atypical way they came to meet. Sanji thanks Pudding for her help, causing Pudding to be torn, as she had actively worked against him and intended to murder him before, but Sanji does not mind and says he is glad she was his fiancee. Pudding weeps, and tells Sanji she has one last request for him as she takes his cigarette out of his mouth.
At 12:37 in the Mirro-World, Luffy and Katakuri have both landed their final attacks on each other. The ground underneath Luffy crumbles away after his final clash with Katakuri and he falls down unconscious as Gear 4 deactivates. Shortly afterwards, Katakuri collapses as well. At 12:40 on Whole Cake Island, Morgans talks about the news spectacle it would be if the Straw Hats managed to escape from Totto Land, causing Mont-d'Or to get angered as he assures Morgans that their excessive forces will crush the Straw Hats, saying that even Gol D. Roger would not be able to escape their concentrated might. He tells Morgans to cover the executions of the Straw Hats instead, and Stussy remarks on his brutality.
At 12:43, Big Mom and Prometheus are close enough to the Nostra Castello to start torching it, and Bege's crew members beg him to drop off the cake and escape, but Bege tells them not to falter and to remain together in the face of death. Two minutes later, the Straw Hats are on course to make it to Cacao Island by 1:00, but they express concerns about Luffy not being able to get out of the Mirro-World and meet them without Brulee. Two more minutes later in the Mirro-World, Luffy regains consciousness and pulls himself out of the chasm, with the rendezvous plans fresh in his mind. However, Katakuri gets up and stands in Luffy's way. The Sweet Commander asks if Luffy will return and defeat Big Mom, and Luffy affirms this, saying he will become Pirate King. Katakuri remarks that Luffy is seeing far into the future as blood spurts out from a wound on his chest and he falls unconscious onto his back. Luffy puts his extra hat over Katakuri's mouth before walking off, and he soon hears the devastated cries of Brulee as she sees her defeated older brother. She herself has been captured and tied up by Pekoms, who has disguised himself as "Nazoms", and has retrieved her to rescue Luffy, as he wants to honor Pedro's memory by helping the Straw Hat escape.
At 12:50, Cacao Island comes into the Straw Hats' sight, and Sanji warns them to not get too close to the fleet, saying he will bring Luffy to the ship when he comes out. Five minutes pass, and with five minutes to go, Oven has his crewmates ready their weapons as they prepare to ambush Luffy.

Four minutes before the rendezvous time, the Thousand Sunny is visible from Cacao Island. The Straw Hats looked in awe at the number of Big Mom Pirates' members waiting for them, Jinbe tells them that those people are the 'Grand Fleet'. Behind them, Smoothie's crew asks their captain what they should do now, to which Smoothie replies to back up the back side of the fleet, so that the Straw Hats are cornered. Meanwhile on Whole Cake Island Mont-d'Or orders an unknown individual to link the transponder snails and that he heard about the situation on Cacao Island.
Back on Cacao island, Sanji is waiting for Luffy's arrival. Everyone anticipates Luffy to come out from the Mirro-World. Oven's army starts shouting for Luffy to come out anytime. In the Mirro-World, Pekoms tells Luffy about his Sulong form that when he transforms into it, he will lose control and can only hear the voice of Pedro. He then reveals his reasoning for helping the Straw Hats is to fulfill Pedro's final wish, and he plans to use his Sulong form as a diversion while Luffy gets away. Brulee pouts on him being a traitor and says it won't work only to be told by Pekoms to shut up and gets completely ignored.
On Cacao Island, Brulee's cry for help is heard from inside the mirror. As all the snipers ready their guns, Pekoms comes out with Brulee as a human shield, and is recognized by everyone to his surprise when they ask him why he came out through the mirror and not Luffy. Pekoms tells them not to move and he removes his glasses before looking up at the full moon, ignoring the Big Mom Pirates' shouts for him to stop before he will go on a rampage. Enraged by the betrayal, Oven heats up Pekoms' gun and uses 'Heat Wave Fist' to suppress him with the help of the army. Luffy is punched out of his hiding place in Pekoms' mane, and Sanji uses a transponder snail to tell the other Straw Hat Pirates that Luffy has come out.
Luffy tries to escape the ambush and jumps onto a rooftop, but is blocked by Raisin who pulls out his sword in order to strike Luffy. However, Sanji jumps out of hiding to save his captain and kicks Raisin away. Sanji grabs Luffy and asks if he won, to which Luffy replies yes and they escape through the sky. Oven calls them naive and says that he was prepared for this as some pirates use Geppo to face them. Meanwhile, on the island ground, the other pirates subdue and beat up Pekoms and try to gouge his eyes to stop him from ever using his Sulong form again. Distracted by Pekoms' cries of agony, Sanji and Luffy are attacked by Yuen and are struck down as the rest of the pirates surround them and shoot, only for the bullets to somehow bounce off.
Suddenly, an explosion causes the ships at the dock to burn and draw everyone's attention. A pirate reports to Snack that it is another fleet attacking them, which are revealed to be the Germa 66. The Big Mom Pirates are surprised at seeing this, as it was reported that the Germa Kingdom should have been killed hours ago. The Germa fleet prepares for another attack, while the Vinsmoke children are revealed to have surrounded Luffy and Sanji and block the shots. Ichiji sarcastically thanks the Big Mom Pirates for the way they acted during the tea party, and says to Sanji that they saved him by coincidence as they also wanted a chance to stir things up.

The Big Mom Pirates attack Germa 66 with bullets only for them to have no effect on their enemy. Ichiji orders Sanji to take Luffy and leave the island as they intend to settle the score. The Big Mom Pirates continue their attack before soon recalling the tales of their enhanced bodies. Oven questions what became of Nusstorte, who Ichiji reveals was thrown into the sea while comparing Nusstorte and his fleets to insects that were swatted.
At the destroyed Whole Cake Chateau, Mont-d'Or is desperately trying to contact his brothers after hearing Germa defeated them but gets no answer as Niwatori panics at the unbelievable events while wondering how Germa arrived. At the now vacant Lake Aprico, a defeated Nusstorte is shown floating on the sea.
Outside of Cacao Island, Smoothie orders her fleet to maintain course after the Straw Hats and ignore Germa's appearance. She was joined by Daifuku, who says he caught up to ensure their enemies are dealt with.
Meanwhile, on the Thousand Sunny, everyone wonders if Germa is on their side before they are contacted by Sanji, who tells them to sail past the port of Cacao Island.
Back on the island, Sanji easily breaks through several of the Big Mom Pirates as he and Luffy make their escape. While the Big Mom Pirates prioritize on not allowing their escape, Brulee tearfully tells them not to permit the Straw Hats' escape as she announces to everyone that Luffy had actually defeated Katakuri, and didn't evade him as they presume. This news is met with disbelief and outrage as nobody considered the possibility of their unbeatable brother getting defeated.
This act causes a stunned Oven to become filled with rage as he takes his spear to attack the unconscious Luffy and Sanji, but he is overwhelmed by Ichiji, who orders Sanji to escape to the skies.
Charlotte Yuen tries to attack Sanji once more but Yonji interferes by destroying the orb of Yuen's staff before grabbing his head and swinging him around, slamming him into buildings and his crewmates.
As Sanji escapes in the air, he is shot at by several snipers, one of whom prepares a missile but Niji flies and grabs Sanji as the explosion goes off. While holding onto Sanji and Luffy, Niji travels at a high speed and takes down several pirates with his swords. The Big Mom Pirates are in disbelief that the Straw Hats are escaping them with Oven being flummoxed as well.
Niji then throws Sanji and Luffy toward the Thousand Sunny, sending them flying over the Big Mom Pirates' fleet.
As the duo flew off Cacao Island, Oven contacts Snack, Brownie, and Joconde to deal with them from their blockade ships. However, his calls go unanswered as many of the blockade fleet crew members were taken out by Reiju, who uses her poison to ensure her brother escapes.
As the group on the Sunny sail past the port, Carrot spots Sanji flying in the air and notifies the group, who are excited at Sanji's success as he tells his captain that their ship is within sight.

Mont-d'Or frantically calls Perospero to ask about the status of Big Mom and the cake. Bavarois answers, revealing that Perospero is weakening due to leaving his wounds untreated for so long. Perospero takes the Den Den Mushi and tells Mont-d'Or that the cake has been dropped off on Funwari Island. He then tells him to alert the citizens of Totto Land that one of three outcomes will occur after Big Mom eats the cake. If the cake is poisoned and Big Mom dies, it will be the end of the Big Mom Pirates. If Big Mom survives a poisoning attempt but does not like the cake as a result, she will continue rampaging and destroy Totto Land. The only way for them to get through this ordeal with only the damage currently sustained will be if the cake is delicious. Mont-d'Or states that the citizens are already becoming aware of this, and wonders where Stussy and Morgans are. He is angry to hear that they left the island, and orders them to be captured, not wanting news of these events to leak to the outside world.
On Nuts Island, the citizens of Peanuts Town mourn the destruction of their home by Big Mom. On Poripori Island, the citizens lose hope, thinking that Pudding could not have possibly recreated the cake that took Streusen several days to make. The people of Cutlery Island have the same opinion and prepare to escape, and those on Ice Island hear that the cake is on Funwari. There, the citizens of Fluffy Town run away in fear, thinking the cake will not work and that Chiffon has led Big Mom to destroy them. Chiffon places her faith in Sanji's cooking skills, and with the Nostra Castello having been destroyed, Bege has no desire to find out what happens to Totto Land as he grabs his wife and speeds away on tank treads, saying he would not forgive the Straw Hats if they died after all he had done. Big Mom lands in front of the cake, and prepares to eat it.
Off the coast of Cacao Island, Sanji and Luffy make it to the Thousand Sunny, and Luffy is greeted and attended to by his crewmates. However, they are quickly assaulted by Smoothie's flying slashes as her fleet closes in on them, but on Judge's command, the Germa 66 fleet fires at hers. Daifuku orders his fleet not to engage with them, as he knows they are focused on fighting the Big Mom Pirates' blockade fleet. Sanji and Judge make eye contact, and Judge asks Luffy why he did the unthinkable of invading Totto Land to rescue Sanji, listing all the reasons why he considers Sanji is weak-minded and a good-for-nothing. However, Luffy simply bids him farewell, and expresses his confusion to his crew about why Judge was listing "positive" traits about Sanji, much to Sanji's chagrin stating he wasn't doing that, causing Jinbe and Chopper to laugh. Carrot alerts the crew that the Big Mom Pirates' fleet had gathered in front of them, leaving them liable to be easily surrounded again. The fleet hits the Sunny with cannon fire, and Daifuku's genie comes up to attack Carrot as his fleet catches up to the Sunny from behind. Sanji blocks the genie's strike, but Daifuku and Smoothie think that they are toying with the Straw Hats at this point. The Big Mom Pirates' paddle ships rapidly make their way to the Sunny, and Jinbe nearly loses hope, but the sea underneath the fleet suddenly swells up as Wadatsumi bursts out and sends several ships flying. The Straw Hats recognize Wadatsumi as a member of Hody Jones' crew, and Jinbe dives underwater, where he reunites with the Sun Pirates, who pledge to serve their former captain until he makes it out of Totto Land.

On and around Funwari Island, Perospero and Chiffon watch expectantly as Big Mom begins eating the wedding cake. Chiffon remembers being annoyed at Sanji's carefree confidence when they were making the cake, but now understands the cook's immense capability. Big Mom falls back after taking her first bites, which worries Perospero, but she begins shedding tears of utter delight as she loudly proclaims that this is the wedding cake she has been looking for. Everyone watches as Big Mom's mindless rampage comes to an end. Bavarois wonders about poison in the cake, and although Perospero still believes that there is, he figures that it was ineffective against Big Mom. As she tears into the cake, Perospero contacts all of Totto Land to announce the end of her rampage, causing everyone to cheer and celebrate. Pudding is given credit for the cake's creation, and as she hears citizens thanking her from an alley in Cacao Island, she smiles and reflects that she was not the one responsible.
On the sea near Cacao Island, Daifuku and Smoothie watch as the Sun Pirates halt the movement of the Big Mom Pirates' fleet and attack it, creating a path for the Straw Hats to sail through. Jinbe finds out that his former crew had also disabled the Territorial Sea Slugs. However, Oven steps out of a mirror onto one of the Cacao Island blockade ships, and reports to the ship's crew that Brulee had brought his army bullets that are effective against Germa 66's forces. Stating that he cannot forgive Luffy for defeating Katakuri, Oven sticks his hands into the ocean and boils it. The heat reaches to where the Straw Hats and Sun Pirates are, forcing the Sun Pirates to retreat deep underwater to escape the scalding temperatures. On Whole Cake Island, Mont-d'Or  receives a report that the Queen Mama Chanter has almost arrived.
As Big Mom continues eating the cake, she begins singing, looking for words to describe a cake whose deliciousness she can barely comprehend. At Cacao Island, the Queen Mama Chanter confronts the Thousand Sunny while the Vinsmokes are overwhelmed by the Big Mom Pirates' enhanced bullets. The cake gives Big Mom flashbacks to Mother Carmel and her sixth birthday party, and she realizes that what she is tasting now is the same feeling of happiness as the croquembouche from that joyous day. She expresses a desire to partake in a meal with her childhood family again someday, and states the dream she got from Carmel of creating a utopia in Totto Land where all races could live in unity. As Big Mom fantasizes, her crew hits the Germa 66 fleet with a massive blast, and Snack and another person confront Judge. Further away, the Sunny is attacked by the Queen Mama Chanter's cannon fire, and the Straw Hats' ship is seemingly destroyed as the sail bearing its Jolly Roger is shown floating through the ocean-like wreckage.

On Funwari Island, Perospero and Bavarois' group stands over a rejuvenated Big Mom, who is barely conscious in her bliss over the cake. Perospero fills her in about what happened, saying the Fire Tank Pirates should still be nearby.
Near Cacao Island, the Big Mom Pirates react in shock as they quickly realize the ship they hit was not the Thousand Sunny, but the Sun Pirates' ship. Underwater, Wadatsumi carries the Sunny in his mouth as his crewmates tell him to take it as far away as he can. Right before the rescue, the Sun Pirates showed reservations about putting the ship constructed by Fisher Tiger into harm's way, but carried on regardless as Wadatsumi pulled the Sunny underwater and replaced it with his crew's ship right as it was hit by cannonballs and put the shocked Straw Hats into his mouth. The Big Mom Pirates' fleet turns around to pursue Wadatsumi, and Oven sends heat torpedoes to hit the giant fish-man. Wadatsumi is unable to withstand the heat and spits out the Sunny, and as he suffers in the boiling temperatures, he apologizes to the Straw Hats for his actions on Fish-Man Island and says that out of his gratitude for Jinbe taking him in, he will join the Sun Pirates in their mission. Having made up their mind to shield Jinbe and the Straw Hats from Big Mom's wrath even at the cost of their own lives, the Sun Pirates get in formation as they confront the Big Mom Pirates' fleet.
Aladine tells Jinbe to go on and wishes him a safe voyage as violence between the two pirate crews quickly breaks out, and he clashes with Oven. However, Jinbe tells the Straw Hats to remove the floodwater from the ship and repair the sails, saying to the confused crew that he cannot leave the Sun Pirates behind. With a few hours to go before escaping Totto Land, Jinbe offers himself up as the rear guard, telling the Straw Hats to leave it to him and promising to come back alive. Luffy says that he is Jinbe's captain now, and says that they will wait for him at Wano Country.
Elsewhere at sea, Big Mom rides on a candy homie with Perospero as she draws toward Cacao Island to take on the Straw Hats, Jinbe, and Germa 66, saying that she will take Luffy's soul and make powerful homies with it. A ways away, the Fire Tank Pirates successfully escape the Big Mom Pirates' sight on a Tarte. Back at Cacao Island, the Straw Hats watch in awe as Jinbe helps the Sun Pirates unleash massive waves against the Big Mom Pirates' fleet, and Aladine is initially mad at Jinbe for underestimating them, but Jinbe says that they all have to survive. In a vessel up in the air, Morgans and Stussy watch as the Straw Hats pull away from their enemies, and Stussy wonders why Morgans seems to be rooting for their escape. Morgans responds that he thinks that one among the Worst Generation will become the next Pirate King.

After getting away from Cacao Island, Sanji thinks back to his first meeting with Pedro upon learning of his self sacrifice. As Sanji expresses some regrets, Carrot tries to cheer him up but starts crying. Sanji then comforts Carrot as Chopper treats Luffy's injuries.
Back at Cacao Island, Pudding sat in an alley thinking about her experiences with Sanji. It is revealed that her last request was a kiss. Afterwards, she removed the memory of the kiss before leaving Sanji. Pudding then begins to cry.
The Sun Pirates and Germa 66 continues battling the Big Mom Pirates. After hearing that the Straw Hats escaped, Germa 66 prepares to withdraw.
Inside the Mirro-World, Katakuri wakes up with Brulee besides him tending to his wounds. It is revealed that during their childhood, some bullies that Katakuri beat up took revenge by cutting Brulee's face. Furious, Katakuri retaliated and attacked the bullies. Katakuri decided to cover his mouth since this incident. Back in the present, Brulee informed him that Luffy has escaped and Katakuri seems pleased with the news.
Meanwhile, Big Mom has reached Cacao Island. Her crew cheered as Big Mom prepares to confront the Sun Pirates and Germa 66.
At the Thousand Sunny, Sanji decides to cook a meal, much to the joy of his crew. At the Baratie, some pirates visit the restaurant and demand food. The chefs want to kick them out but Zeff prepares a meal for them instead, saying that he will feed anyone who wishes to eat.

Sanji is annoyed at Niji for giving him a Raid Suit in secret, seemingly mocking him for his lack of strength right until the very end. Luffy and Chopper are trying to convince him to keep it. Sanji claims that he doesn't need science to make himself stronger, with Nami showing off her Clima-Tact (which now contains Zeus) as a response to Sanji's science dismissal. Just as Sanji is telling the crew not to mention Germa 66 or the Vinsmoke Family again, Carrot announces that the newspaper has arrived. It is revealed that Sanji's bounty has now increased to 330,000,000 and it now says "Dead or Alive" once again. Sanji is elated to know that his bounty's now higher than Zoro's, only to discover that his poster now contains the word 'Vinsmoke', much to his dismay. Brook discovers that Luffy is also depressed because his bounty has seemingly been lowered to 150,000,000. Nami is elated as that means less people will come for them, but Brook tells her this hurts their captain's pride.
The scene then cuts to Neptune and his sons about to leave the Ryugu Kingdom for the Levely, with Shirahoshi deciding to come along with them in fear of Luffy calling her "Weakhoshi" again.
This leads to people across the world reading the newspaper which says that Luffy now commands a fleet of 5000 subordinates and that he would be on the way to becoming a fifth Emperor. Amongst those seen reading this news are Dalton and Dr. Kureha from the Sakura Kingdom, Crocodile, the Firetank Pirates, and Princess Vivi. At the same time, Bartolomeo and Cavendish are giving interviews to the journalists.
At the Marine Headquarters, Fleet Admiral Akainu is given a report that the ship containing the representatives from the Lulusia Kingdom has been attacked by pirates and that Princess Komane has been kidnapped. Akainu angrily asks how that happened.
The scene then changes to King Riku Doldo III and King Elizabello playing chess as their ships are anchored next to each other, with Rebecca recalling the news about Luffy. She then reminds the Tontattas not to speak of their connection to Luffy at Mary Geoise as they're now pirates.
An unknown pirate crew in a submarine look at the ships through their periscope as they decide to kidnap Princess Viola. At the same time, their captive, Princess Komane, is pleading to let her go in exchange for any amount of money they want. They then fire a torpedo at the ships, only for it to be intercepted by an unknown marine and deflected, narrowly missing the ships. It is revealed that it was Captain Koby who saved them. It is also revealed that Lieutenant Commander Helmeppo has defeated the pirates, with Komane kicking them, swearing that they'll all be skewered. Kyros recognizes Koby as the Marine hero who once saved many civilians during the Rocky Port Incident. He then thanks Koby for saving the royal families from the pirates and comments on his humility. Koby denies his heroism before noticing Rebecca's paper with the news about Luffy. Rebecca then gives him the paper and he becomes proud of Luffy's recent achievements against Big Mom. She then asks Koby if he is a fan of Luffy, which he tries to stringently deny, but she sees through his attempts to divert the conversation and promises that his secret will be kept by her.
All of the Four Emperors read the newspaper; Kaidou is angry that the pirate who ruined his operations was in Big Mom's territory, Blackbeard comments that Luffy being called an emperor is a bit premature, Big Mom angrily says that she was never defeated and that both Luffy and Morgans should watch their backs, and Shanks comments that they'll soon be able to meet again.
Brook then looks at Luffy's wanted poster and realizes that Luffy made an error in counting the zeros, which confuses the latter. Brook then announces that Luffy's bounty is now in fact 1,500,000,000, as all of the crew look on in shock at the revelation.

After losing their base at Baltigo to the Blackbeard Pirates, the Revolutionary Army moves its headquarters to Momoiro Island. Dragon, Ivankov, Inazuma, and Koala sit at a table and find out about the Straw Hats' actions on Totto Land as they wait to meet with the Revolutionary executives. Ivankov is excited to hear about Luffy and Sanji, and Dragon notes that the Germa Kingdom is now no longer a part of the World Government. Ivankov wonders why Sabo has been laying on the ground, and Koala says that he has been grinning nonstop after finding out about Luffy's actions. Sabo then receives a call from Lindbergh, who says they ran into some trouble nearby and asks if they can delay their arrival for a bit. The okama of the Kamabakka Kingdom get excited to meet the executives, and Dragon and Sabo begin finalizing the plans for their operation to declare war against the World Nobles at the Levely.
At the port of the Lulusia Kingdom, the Peachbeard Pirates pillage the area for treasure while the kingdom's strongest forces are with the king on the way to Levely. The captain, Peachbeard, reveals that he sails under Blackbeard's flag and tells the citizens to cower at the name of the Emperor as his crew members attack them with orders to kill any who resist. Moda begs Peachbeard to spare their lives, revealing that although the town is poor, they have a supply of Celestial Gold to pay tribute to the World Nobles. Peachbeard feigns sympathy, but immediately afterwards hits Moda and tells his crew to search for the gold. However, Moda collides with a woman, who summons Morley. Morley, a giant okama, tears her way out of the ground in front of the pirates and wonders why they are staring at her. Peachbeard tells his men to shoot Morley, but the giant plants her trident into the street and moves it as though it is clay, forcing the pirates back with a large wave.
The citizens wonder what Morley is, and the woman, Belo Betty, asks them what they want to do, though they do not know who she and Morley are. The Peachbeard Pirates then see Lindbergh and Karasu standing on a nearby roof, and realize that these four are commanders in the Revolutionary Army. Peachbeard is shocked, as the four of them normally operated far apart from each other. Betty gives the citizens the chance to stand up against the pirates, and as they answer her call and pick up sticks to fight, they find their strength increasing due to Betty's Kobu Kobu no Mi power. Peachbeard laughs at the citizens, and Betty tells Lindbergh and Karasu to back them up from the other side. The citizens race into battle, and as the pirates prepare to shoot them, Lindbergh shoots them with his Cool Shooter, freezing their hands to their guns and preventing them from using them. The citizens unleash powerful strikes on the pirates, and Karasu transforms into a group of crows which fly in and steal the pirates' swords. The pirates are swiftly defeated, and Peachbeard threatens retaliation from Blackbeard as he is tied up, but Betty says that Blackbeard does not care about those who serve under his flag. She leaves Peachbeard in the custody of the citizens for them to turn in for his 52,000,000 bounty, and gives them the Revolutionaries' contact information, saying they will accept anyone who wants to rise up. The commanders then head to Momoiro Island to meet with Dragon and prepare for their declaration of war.

In an effort to combat the violence the New Era will bring forth, it was decided by the World Government to relocate Marineford at the entrance of the New World, where it stands as a much stronger fortress, under the command of Fleet Admiral Sakazuki.
At New Marineford, T Bone reports to Sakazuki that Fujitora is currently at Mary Geoise. Sakazuki is enraged at his shameful act of returning without the heads of Luffy and Law, but T Bone says that Fujitora rebutted that Mary Geoise is not a Marine base. Sakazuki got even angrier because it is just a ridiculous technicality. At that moment, Sengoku comments that being Fleet Admiral is a difficult job, much to Sakazuki's annoyance. Sakazuki then asks who else will be going to Mary Geoise, and he is told that Admiral Ryokugyu will be there. Meanwhile Fujitora and Ryokugyu are having a civil conversation with Ryokugyu ignoring  Sakazuki's  order to deal with the former. After Fujitora talked about his confidence that Dr. Vegapunk's latest project will replace the Seven Warlords of the Sea he asks Ryokugyu if he is still fasting with Ryokugyu laughing then claiming he hasn't bothered eating in 3 years.
At the Red Port leading to the sacred land of Mary Geoise, royals from around the world are arriving one after another. The royals include King Beer VI from Roshwan Kingdom along with his Matryo Princesses, King Ham Burger from Ballywood Kingdom, Queen Mororon from Tajine Kingdom, and King Tacos from Shishano Kingdom.
Also arriving is King Neptune from Ryugu Kingdom along with princess Shirahoshi, prince Fukaboshi, Ryuboshi, and Manboshi, all escorted by Marine HQ Vice Admiral Garp. It is said that even though the Ryugu Kingdom had been a part of the World Government for 200 years, this is only the second time they have participated in the Levely. Taking advantage of this big news, the journalists are taking as many pictures as they can, with Attach wanting to print a special edition because of Shirahoshi's beauty, only to be ignored by Morgans because he is too enchanted by her beauty.
Garp is then greeted by Sterry, the king of Goa Kingdom, who asks him if he knows who he is only to be responded to as some brat. Shocked at his rudeness, Sterry then reminds Garp that he is the king of the kingdom of which he is a citizen in, and therefore, it automatically makes Garp his subordinate.
Morgans then comments that despite the fact that the Goa Kingdom is a "peaceful, rural country", the place has brought forth some of the world's most accomplished criminals such as Ace, Sabo, Luffy, and Dragon, with Garp being the exception.
A little trivia is also shown on how Sterry became king of Goa Kingdom after the mysterious deaths of its previous king and prince.
Undeterred by his claims, Garp then demands Sterry to move as he is annoying to look at. Hurt at his rudeness, he goes ahead and sets it aside and asks Garp on how to become a World Noble and Garp's only response is that Sterry is a scumbag. Getting hurt even more because of his rude behavior, Sterry thinks of how his actions are fitting of the death penalty and how scary Garp is, only for Garp to tell him to forget what he just said.
The Neptune Family reaches the Bondola and they part ways with Garp. As they ascend to Mary Geoise, Shirahoshi gazes and marvels at the sun and sky.
Sterry is scared of going up the Bondola and screams when he sees a giant in the Red Line's wall, but Ham Burger believes he was hallucinating. Sterry then wants a guard to shoot at some crows in fear they would pop the bubble, but the guard, revealed to be Sabo in disguise, tells Sterry not to worry.

The Bondola rises to the top of the Red Line, and the merfolk are advised to use reinforced bubbles to move from there on. The group of royals marvels at the sheer size of the architecture around them as they climb the steps to the gates of the Holy City of Mary Geoise. As Shirahoshi is awestruck by the manmade forest in the city, the guards hand the merfolk handles and tell them to hold onto them as the ground begins to move underneath.
Sterry immediately begins to panic, thinking it is an earthquake and begging for someone to protect him. Prince Fukaboshi explains that it is actually called a Travelator, which allows the ground to move. Fukaboshi, Shirahoshi and the rest of the Ryugu royal Family, however, opts to walk the normal way, ostensibly to enjoy the scenery and look at the forest. As Sterry continues on the Travelator, he mocks the Neptune Family for their seeming fear of modern amenities and talks about wanting to introduce the Travelators in the Goa Kingdom, mistakenly calling them "trub-bleooters". Fukaboshi, however, mentally notes of the unsettling presence he gets from the Travelator, which is revealed to be powered by slave labor underneath the ground.
As the Ryugu royal family arrives at the front gate to the Pangaea Palace, Charlos looks at them from his family's palace, with his interest being taken by Shirahoshi's size and beauty. Inside the palace, at Mingling Plaza, royals and their bodyguards from all over talk and become acquainted with one another. Shirahoshi becomes the center of attention, with attendees complimenting her on her beauty and trying to get her to marry one of their sons. Not knowing how to get them to leave her alone, Shirahoshi tells them that they're "not her type", offending the royals and shocking Fukaboshi and Ryuboshi. As Fukaboshi tries to smooth things over, Ryuboshi pulls their sister aside and tells her that she needs to learn not to insult them or else she will cause an international incident, but Shirahoshi can not imagine telling a lie only for Ryuboshi to reassure she isn't lying but simply brushing them off.
Meanwhile, Vivi and Karoo become acquainted with Rebecca and her bodyguard Leo, with Vivi calling Leo cute, much to his annoyance as he proclaims himself as one of Luffy's underlings. Rebecca marvels at how the Straw Hats have traveled to so many different places as Vivi notes that they are actually good people despite their reputation as pirates. Vivi then notes how after reading about what had happened in Dressrosa, she realized that the Straw Hats had saved them as well, which Rebecca and Leo tearfully confirm.
Shirahoshi, having heard them talking, asks if they had mentioned Luffy, despite Ryuboshi's warning not to mention their friendship with Luffy due to him being a pirate. Rebecca confirms that they know Luffy, as Ryuboshi keeps asking them to stop saying his name as they all say how they are indebted to Luffy. Over on the side, Igaram, Viola, and Fukaboshi are chatting with each other and noting how the three princesses are all becoming friends due to their mutual friendship with Luffy.
Sai then comes over to greet Rebecca and Leo before telling Leo that after the Levely, he plans to cut ties with his country. Their talk is interrupted by the appearance of Wapol and his queen, Kinderella. As Wapol proceeds to mock Vivi and King Cobra, Dalton and Dr. Kureha appear and tell him to stop his boring insults before greeting Vivi, who is happy to see the two again. Wapol attempts to intimidate Dalton by calling him a servant, but Dalton transforms and tells him that they are on the same footing before talking with Vivi and Rebecca about Luffy, ignoring Wapol's insults.
Elsewhere, at Level 6 in Impel Down, Doflamingo lies in a solitary cell guarded by Magellan, wondering aloud when the World Government will send assassins to kill him so he will not tell anyone about Mary Geoise' national treasure. Doflamingo then says that it does not matter as power does not last long and will rot faster than people realize. Back in Mary Geoise, a lone figure carrying Luffy's new wanted poster opens the door to a freezing vault. Stepping inside, the vault is revealed to contain a single object: a massive straw hat the size of the figure.

At Whole Cake Island, Big Mom contacts Kaidou via Den Den Mushi, telling him to stay out of her way as she goes after Straw Hat Luffy, saying that she will be humiliated if she isn't the one to kill him. Kaidou refuses, citing his own grudge against Luffy and threatening to kill Big Mom if she interferes. Linlin then says that he owes her a great debt from a long time ago and insists that they cooperate on this like the "good old days".
At New Marineford, it is revealed that the Marines intercepted the two Emperors' conversation, with their signal being completely unencrypted, which they interpret as a challenge to come and stop them. Kizaru offers to head out to deal with the situation, but Sakazuki tells him to wait, as the strength of the armies of the samurai of Wano Country is unknown. At Red Port, Garp laughs off the threat of two Emperors meeting together even after mentioning that they both are going after his grandson Straw Hat Luffy, saying that the only ones who could stop it are all at the Levely. Gion tells him that Sakazuki said not to interfere, as Wano is outside their jurisdiction, but Hina remains worried. Hina then mentions that Big Mom and Kaidou are the reason why Garp is the Hero of the Navy. She also mentions "Rocks", who Garp states came from before Roger's time, and that if they were to return, it would be trouble. Garp then smiles and says that the current situation is going to be bigger than anyone can imagine.
At the Pangaea Castle in Mary Geoise, Sterry is brought before the Empty Throne and told to symbolically make a pledge before it. Sterry says that he wants to sit in it, but an aide says that none may do so, pointing out that the twenty weapons were the pledges of the "First Twenty" who founded the World Government. The First Twenty declared that none may sit in the Empty Throne, and that the world may not have one king. Sterry thinks that if he were to sit on it, he would be king of the world.
At the Mingling Plaza, Charlos has a giant slave grab Shirahoshi in front of everyone, planning to make her his pet, as Rebecca and Vivi shout at him to stop. Leo and Sai attempt to stop Charlos, only to be stopped by Rob Lucci and CP0, saying that whatever a god wants, they will get regardless of whether or not it makes sense. Neptune, enraged, prepares to attack CP0 and Charlos while declaring that he cannot bring his people to the surface, tearfully apologizing to Otohime in the process while Vivi says that the World Nobles are not humans at all. Just then, a figure appears and bashes Charlos' face in with a mace before apologizing and orders that Shirahoshi be set free. The figure then states that as a fellow World Noble, he is embarrassed by Charlos' actions and for allowing him to pollute the plaza with fear. The figure then states that while Neptune may not remember him, he owes the Ryugu Kingdom a great debt, especially to Otohime, revealing himself to be Mjosgard. Mjosgard then says that Otohime showed him the error of his ways and made him into a human. Thus, he will support their efforts with all his might.
Meanwhile, the Five Elders prepare to meet with a hooded figure alone and order their guards to leave. Their guest is revealed to be Shanks, who wishes to talk with them about "a certain pirate".

The Socializing Plaza has quieted down after Charlos' attempt to kidnap Shirahoshi. Mansherry heals the bruises that Shirahoshi received and Neptune thanks Mjosgard for his actions, and Mjosgard promises to protect Shirahoshi for the duration of the Levely. Leo asks if they can beat up anyone who threatens the princess, and Mjosgard agrees to take responsibility if that happens. Pell apologizes to Vivi for not being at her side during the incident, and she asks him where her father is. He replies that he is currently meeting with Fujitora and Riku Doldo III after receiving a letter from the Marine admiral.
Connie, the queen dowager of the Sorbet Kingdom, goes to the Celestial Dragon Gate which leads to the World Nobles' domain. She is stopped by the guards at the gate when the injured Charlos is carried in. Rosward waits for his son on the other side, and when the guards open the gate to let Charlos through, Connie dashes through it without anyone noticing. Rosward remarks about how unusual Mjosgard's lifestyle is, and Charlos notices with excitement that his father got to rent the Shichibukai and former king of the Sorbet Kingdom Bartholomew Kuma as his slave steed. Rosward demonstrates how he can do whatever he likes to Kuma without the Shichibukai ever weakening, and a short distance away, Connie is shocked to see Kuma already as she transforms into her real self, Jewelry Bonney. Bonney sheds a tear for Kuma, calling the World Nobles' treatment of him unforgivable. Meanwhile, Morley, Lindbergh, and Karasu try to prevent Sabo from getting worked up about Kuma as they hide in a cave created by Morley under the World Nobles' domain. Karasu points out that Kuma would not return to his old self even if they do rescue him, and Lindbergh reflects that Kuma being enslaved despite formerly being a king of a nation affiliated with the World Government is a message that the power of a person is irrelevant when they defy the World Noble "gods". Sabo says that if they are going to rescue him, then there will only be two possible outcomes: success or death.
In Pangaea Castle, the royals gather in the conference room to begin the Levely. They file in and chatter about Luffy's actions towards Big Mom and Kaidou. Ham Burger, who has been appointed the chairman of the Levely for this year, calls everyone to order as they prepare to discuss the matters of the world. Elsewhere, the Five Elders walk down a hall. They say that Cobra has requested a meeting with them during Levely, noting that his family are traitors for remaining on the surface world during the founding of the World Government and hoping that he would not bring up a complicated matter. With many big things happening in the past two years, the elders state that the balance cannot be maintained forever and that a great cleansing may be needed. Inside the Room of Flowers, an attendant tells Imu that everyone has arrived. Imu heads out, leaving behind the torn-up bounty posters of Luffy and Blackbeard as well as a picture of Shirahoshi with a sword plunged into it. Carrying a picture of Vivi, Imu heads to the Empty Throne, which this individual sits on. The Five Elders kneel before Imu, requesting that the figure share with them the name of the "light" that needs to be extinguished from history.

On the way to Wano Country, Nekomamushi and his crew stop at the island that Whitebeard grew up on and referred to as his homeland. It is shown that the minks decided to stay along the shoreline due to them being warriors on an island of peace. Marco has taken on the role of doctor on the island and helps several citizens before going to sit with Nekomamushi. He describes that Whitebeard grew up an orphan on this island and it was too poor to be able to ally with the World Government. When he started his career as a pirate, Whitebeard would care for the island by funnelling money to it despite not having any familial ties there. After Blackbeard killed Whitebeard and took his place as an Emperor, Marco wanted to fight him in revenge for taking everything away from the remaining Whitebeard Pirates; he breaks down when mentioning that his share of treasure went to support the island and thanks Shanks for burying Whitebeard on his 'final keepsake'. Marco then brings up the topic of Edward Weevil hunting down anyone who has had ties to Whitebeard and, while not knowing if his claims about being Whitebeard's true son are true, admits that Buckin was a pirate roughly thirty - forty years ago with Whitebeard and for the sake of the island, can't journey to Wano; he informs Nekomamushi to pass on a message to Luffy in his stead.
Shortly after arriving in Wano Country, Kin'emon warns Franky, Usopp, Robin and Zoro that they must assimilate into the country until they can rally enough support to overthrow shogun Kurozumi Orochi, who is loyal to Kaidou. He urges them to keep their identities a secret and to not provoke any of the officials; if so, Kaidou will know about it and ruin their plans. Franky, Usopp and Robin are able to blend in by getting jobs as a carpenter, salesman, and geisha respectively.
Zoro posed as a ronin, but was apprehended by the local magistrate, Toyama Tsujigiro, on the grounds of supposedly murdering three people in the night. He is additionally charged with desecrating the grave of famed hero and swordsman Ryuma, using the fact that Zoro is in possession of Ryuma's sword Shusui as proof. Despite acknowledging that Zoro possibly stole the sword from the original thief, Tsujigiro gleefully states his joy in now being in possession of the sword and orders Zoro to commit seppuku for "his" crimes.  As Zoro prepares himself, he comments that Tsujigiro himself smells like blood and queries if he is the true culprit; Tsujigiro is caught off guard and Zoro slashes the air, cutting Tsujigiro and part of the building. As the onlookers are shocked that so much damage was caused with just a seppuku blade, Zoro inwardly apologizes to Kin'emon and prepares himself.

As the Thousand Sunny sails the sea, Nami gets the newspaper and reveals to Luffy that the Levely is going on, saying that Shirahoshi and the Ryugu Kingdom royals had come to it. Sanji sees a picture of Vivi in it and gushes over her beauty, and the Straw Hats look and see the pictures, recognizing old friends as well as enemies in them. Nami then shows Chopper a picture of Kureha, and Chopper cuts it out of the paper while Sanji cuts out the princesses' pictures. This annoys Nami, as she has yet to read the back of the paper and wants to know what it is saying about Big Mom and Kaidou. Luffy is glad to see his old friends and says they will visit them again after completing their voyage. Brook asks him to try calling their allies on Wano with the Den Den Mushi again, and Luffy does it, but gets no response and decides to forge on ahead.
However, the crew soon draws close to an oncoming storm with unusual wind conditions and waves surrounding them. Luffy rejects Brook's suggestion to wait out the storm, and Nami reminds Brook about Kin'emon telling them that Wano Country is always surrounded by terrible weather. Suddenly, an octopus appears on their ship and salutes them as it makes noise, and the Sunny is surrounded by a school of giant carp. Sanji is shocked to see a freshwater species in the ocean, and after confirming that they can be cooked, Luffy attempts to catch one. He is pulled off the ship, and as he wrangles with the fish, the Straw Hats focus on navigating through the monstrous waves. The water is very clear, and the crew wonders if they are sailing on a river as a current sweeps them to where the carp are going.
They find themselves at the bottom of a waterfall, which the carp are swimming up through. Nami wonders if Wano Country is located at the top of the waterfall, but the crew fears that they will sail into the falls and sink. Luffy then returns to the ship, and he grabs onto two of the carp to pull the ship up. The carp drag the Sunny to the top of the falls, but the crew quickly finds themselves sailing into a whirlpool. Luffy is eventually submerged underwater before washing up on shore along with the Sunny, which is on its side; the rest of the crew is nowhere to be seen. Luffy is woken up when a crab pinches his nose, and he looks around for his crewmates when he sees a large komainu being sent flying into the Sunny. Luffy does not know what animal that is, but senses a fight happening as a giant baboon wielding a sword approaches them. Because of its sword, Luffy believes that he has made it to Wano Country.

As the komainu and the baboon begin to battle, Luffy asks them not to mess up the Sunny before remembering what happened: after they had climbed the waterfall, the Straw Hats had spotted land but got stuck in a whirlpool. Sanji grabbed Nami and Carrot and used Sky Walk to carry them to land along with Chopper, with Luffy using his belly to give Sanji a boost. Before he could catch up with them, he got grabbed by the octopus and remained stuck on the Sunny before waking up on the beach. Luffy then realizes that he had lost the Vivre card and briefly freaks out before deciding to forget about it.
Further inland, an unknown man rides a giant bird-horse with a prisoner who is tied up in a burlap sack and is begging to be freed and given back their rice. The man says that the prisoner said that they were an attendant of the Kozuki Family, debating whether or not to sell them to the red light district or turn them in. At that moment, they reach the beach where they spot the Sunny, along with their baboon fighting the komainu. They then make a call to someone called "Shinuchi" saying that a ship had illegally entered the country and preparing to capture Luffy. Before the thug can shoot him, Luffy takes him down with his fists. The thug then orders the baboon to take Luffy down, but after Luffy glares at him angrily, he backs down. The thug is then knocked out by the prisoner who managed to get out of the burlap sack, revealed to be a young girl.
The girl, named O-Tama, tries surrendering to Luffy before he says that he won't hurt her. Turning her attention to the baboon, she pulls off part of her cheek, which then turns into a dango, which the baboon, Hihimaru, eats and because docile. Impressed with her abilities, Luffy asks Tama if he is in Wano Country, which she confirms, saying he is in Kuri. She then explains that while she was coming back from shopping in town, members of the Beast Pirates found her, forcing the komainu, Komachiyo, to fight Hihimaru. When the pirates stole her stuff, she accidentally blurted out the Kozuki Family. Owing Luffy a debt, she decides to answer all his questions about Wano and feed him back at her place.
After hiding the Sunny someplace safe, Tama tells Luffy that she and her master are the only ones who still live on the mountain and that she is training to become a kunoichi. As Luffy gulps down all the rice Tama has, she explains that she won't eat because she is preparing to keep her body light before being stunned at how fast Luffy ate the rice. After Luffy pretends to be full for her sake, Tama goes to wash her hands, with Luffy remarking that she's a good kid. At that moment, a man with a sword and a mask barges in and becomes furious at Luffy for eating the rice. The man explains that Tama barely makes enough money for them to get by on a daily basis, being so poor that they can only afford rice twice a year. The man furiously tells Luffy that the rice he ate was supposed to be for her eighth birthday.
As the man is explaining all this, Tama has been drinking water to quell her hungry stomach, but after seeing her Master yell at Luffy, she tearfully tells him that she just wanted to thank him for saving her life before collapsing.  Her master is horrified that she has been drinking water from the river, as the rivers are toxic from the waste from Kaidou's factories. She's stayed in Kuri all this time waiting for a pirate who promised to come back one day, with Luffy being shocked when the pirate is revealed to have been Ace.
Back at the beach, the Beast Pirates have confirmed that a group of people had arrived in Wano as they ask Shinuchi what to do, revealing him to be Basil Hawkins. Hawkins says that they should not report to Kaidou yet, as he will go and handle matters himself.

Luffy makes it clear to O-Tama that he knows Ace as well, only to then reveal that he is dead. Tama is greatly shocked and refuses to believe Luffy before passing out. Her master, Tenguyama Hitetsu, berates Luffy for being insensitive and not waiting for a better time to reveal that. He reveals that he is a bladesmith who, like Tama, has been waiting here for someone. This was once a place called Amigasa Village, but X Drake, who had become a headliner in the Beasts Pirates, had destroyed the village after defeating the five samurai guarding it. The Flower Capital was now the only prosperous place left in Wano Country, as Kaidou's tyranny had turned everything else into a lawless wasteland. About four years ago, Amigasa Village was going through a famine. Everyone had nearly starved to death when Ace and his crew washed ashore, and the villagers tied them up and took their food. Ace escaped but was fine with what happened, and decided to stay in the village for a few weeks, which was when he grew close to Tama.
Luffy decides to go looking for a doctor as well as food and water in order to repay Tama, and Hitetsu has him change into a kimono. While Hitetsu cannot accompany Luffy, he tells the pirate to look for someone to lend him money, or to find one of his allies who will help for free. Luffy decides to take a sword with him to make him look like a samurai, but Hitetsu tries to stop him, revealing that it is the cursed Great Grade sword Nidai Kitetsu that his ancestor Kotetsu made. Luffy does not care, and races off with Tama despite Hitetsu not wanting the sword's curse to harm Tama. Komachiyo approaches Luffy to give him and Tama a ride, and Tama regains consciousness as she continues asserting that Luffy is lying about Ace's death. She remembers wanting to join Ace's crew, and Ace told her that if she was strong when he came back, he would take her along. Tama hits Luffy as she keeps refusing to believe him, when the two of them come to a massive wasteland outside of the forest of Kuri. Luffy sees several large animals running around and wants to hunt them, but Tama reveals that they are poisonous due to drinking the contaminated river water. She then reveals that Kaidou and the shogun have their own clean farms to eat from before passing out again, and Luffy has Komachiyo head for the quarry and the weapons factory in the distance.
Luffy then hears someone chasing after a woman, and wonders if it is Sanji, but sees that it is two scouts trying to rob her. The scouts are then suddenly cut down, and as Luffy sees their attacker rummaging around for booze, he realizes that it is Zoro. Luffy calls out to Zoro, and the two happily reunite. Zoro reveals that he has been hunting the animals around here, which has given him a stomachache. Before they can get going to help Tama, however, they are then confronted by Basil Hawkins, who recognizes the nationally-wanted criminal Zoro and the intruder Luffy. Hawkins says that to survive in Wano Country, they can only either follow the strong or live in hiding, and Luffy and Zoro prepare to fight, saying they will apologize to Kin'emon later for causing a disturbance.

As Hawkins confronts Luffy and Zoro in the wasteland, he asks them if they know who's really controlling Wano. Zoro replies that he doesn't, and Luffy brashly says it's Kaidou and he's there to defeat him. Hawkins reads Luffy and Zoro's fortune and states that the probability of the Straw Hats being alive at the end of the month is 19%.
Zoro notices the deadly curse residing on the sword that Luffy is currently carrying, and asks his captain if he could borrow the Nidai Kitetsu for a moment. Luffy ignores Zoro's request and tosses aside the sword's scabbard. Luffy then attacks one of Hawkins' underlings, but uses his fist instead of the blade. One of the Beasts Pirates' giant lizards try to attack Luffy, but he dodges, catches it, and throws it at Hawkins, who stops the lizards with his straw sword. After striking down some of his foes, Zoro proceeds to attack Hawkins with a flying slash to the face, but the damage is redirected to one of Hawkins' men. Hawkins explains how his Wara Wara no Mi works and conjures a giant straw entity. Hawkins then draws the Fool card in reverse position, which made his men attack each other.
Komachiyo intervenes and drags the two Straw Hats away from the battle, as Tama is breathing faintly and needs medical attention. While the trio is escaping, Hawkins draws another card, the Hierophant in reverse position, which prompts him to make the straw entity pursue the Straw Hats. The straw figure unleashes a barrage of nails that injure Zoro on the head. After Zoro cuts the summoned scarecrow in two, Hawkins draws the Hierophant again, signifying that someone will help them escape. After they get away from Hawkins, the woman that Zoro saved earlier introduces herself as Tsuru. She then inquires about Tama's origins and condition. Seeing how ill Tama is, Tsuru asks Luffy and Zoro to bring Tama to her tea shop so she can make medicine for her.
At Okobore Town, a sumo wrestler named Urashima tries to court Kiku, a teahouse worker, to become his wife. Urashima continues bragging about his status until Tsuru arrives with her new companions. At the top of a certain mountain, Bepo, Shachi, and Penguin spot Luffy and Zoro through binoculars.

At Tsuru's tea house in Okobore Town, Tama, who has recently received herbal tea from Tsuru, recovers from her sickness. Tsuru warns Tama that the herb helps the body recover, but does not negate the poison, instructing Tama to rest. However Tama's stomach began to grumble, and the girl rushes back to the river to subside it, much to Tsuru anger.
Meanwhile, Luffy and Zoro are sitting outside while the latter's wounds are being treated by Kiku, who notes Kiku's physic before the formal introduction. They are then distracted by Tama's refusal to eat the sweet red bean soup Tsuru made for her since she can't afford it, and Tsuru's poor state, as well as feeling ashamed in doing so after Tsuru treated her. Tsuru became angry at Tama for refusing the meal she prepared for her, and following Kiku's advice, accepts the food.
Tama goes outside and sits between Luffy and Zoro who urge her to eat her meal, which she finally does, and is enchanted by the taste. Luffy is surprised and asked if that is the first time eating the dish, which she confirms, before remembering Hitetsu's talking about Tama's eating habits. While Tama is enjoying her meal greatly, Tsuru became emotional as Tama claims this as the best day of her life.
After the meal, Tama takes a nap while Tsuru talks with Luffy and Zoro about Wano Country's poor condition of the land and residents. They then introduce themselves as Zorojuro and Luffytaro. Tsuru continue to talk about the origin and the way of life in Okobore Town, and the history of Wano country and the Kozuki Family. She tells them about a time twenty years ago, when the family ruled over Wano, and that it was a prosperous land which she dubs "Paradise", and how the country ended up to be the way it is now under the shogun, Kurozumi Orochi. She tells them about the farm Orochi controls, which has clean waters and eatable products, while Okobore Town survives upon purchasing the old ingredients from the neighboring town, which is inhabited by country rulers.
Tsuru is then targeted by an arrow, and is saved at the last moment by Zoro pulling his sword and blocking it. The archer reveals himself to be Batman, whose hearing is superb thank to the bat SMILE he ate. He claims to have heard Tsuru speaking ill about the shogun, and when asked by Zoro if that is any reason to kill her, Batman replies that that is the shogun's will. Batman then accuses Zoro and Luffy of robbing the farm, and barrages them with arrows, all of which Zoro blocks. Surprised, Batman identified Zoro as the wanted "One-Eyed Ronin". Kiku, meanwhile, rushes to Tsuru's side, protecting her, but this leads to Tama being taken by Gazelleman, a gazelle SMILE user, who runs off at a high speed thanks to his gazelle-like legs. Kiku grabs a sword, and riding on Komachiyo, gives chase.
Surprised, Zoro questions Kiku's actions, and Tsuru reveals Kiku is actually a well trained in swordsmanship. Luffy and Zoro join her in her pursuit, but are held back by Batman's arrows. This causes Zoro to believe Tama's kidnapping was planned out. Kiku pulls out a notepad and after deducting they are headed toward Bakura Town, the neighboring government controlled town, informs Luffy and Zoro about the rivaling Beasts Pirates headliners who reside there and the 30 SMILE users. Shocked by her vast knowledge, they ask who exactly Kiku is who replies "a samurai".
While Gazelleman contacts Holed'em, one of Bakura town resident headliner, informing him about Tama's capture, Luffy and his team enter Bakura Town gate. Elsewhere, on top of a mountain, the Heart Pirates inform their captain Trafalgar D. Water Law about Luffy's arrival to Wano and entering the town. Law then panics and orders his crew to stop Luffy before he causes any trouble.

During the sumo wrestling tournament at Bakura Town, Urashima expresses his desire to make Kiku his wife, having left her at Okobore Town due to fearing Zoro's aura. He says that with his wealth and status, there is no way she can refuse, and the Gifter Mouseman states that Urashima could go as far as forcing the lowly Kiku to marry him, as he has free reign to take away everything she holds dear. Mouseman says that Urashima needs to set an example by using his high social class to get whatever he wants, and this pleases the yokozuna. Urashima then knocks his food off the table and says he wants the owners' raccoon dog cooked for him, even though it has been their pet for many years.
Elsewhere in town, an exhausted Gazelleman brings Tama to Holed'em's residence. Holed'em, a lion SMILE user, tells Gazelleman to leave before getting annoyed at the lion head on his waist for looking at him, and he punches it. The lion retaliates by striking Holed'em in the groin, but this attack hurts both of them since they share the same body. Holed'em's subordinates ask about what they should do with Tama, and Holed'em asks her how she was able to tame Hihimaru. Due to Hitetsu instructing her to not use her powers in front of others, Tama lies that she just did it normally, but Holed'em had heard she pulled something off of her cheek. He instructs one of his subordinates to bring pliers so he can try pulling from Tama's cheek by force, and Tama grows scared as she silently begs for Luffy to save her.
Meanwhile, Luffy, Zoro, Kiku, and Komachiyo arrive at the main gate of Bakura Town. Luffy tries calling out for Tama, but Kiku silences him as everyone here is in league with Tama's kidnappers. The people around the gate do not recognize the group and quickly become hostile, but Luffy knocks them out with Haoshoku Haki. He and Zoro look around the town, and Kiku states that after Orochi and his subordinates took over around 20 years ago, many of its former residents were driven out and only essential tradesmen were allowed to stay. Suddenly, Luffy catches a sumo wrestler who was sent flying towards him, and he is surprised that someone was able to send a sumo wrestler flying this far. They come to the sumo tournament, where Urashima is dominating everyone he faces. The organizers are offering a hefty reward to anyone who defeats him, but no one is able to no matter how many of them come at him at once. Urashima then notices Kiku, and asks if the latter came to become his bride. The spectators are shocked at his fancy for a lowly citizen, and an exasperated Kiku hides behind Zoro, remembering that Urashima had talked about the sumo tournament when he was in Okobore Town. Urashima tells his men to escort Kiku to him, and Luffy tries telling everyone about his search for Tama, but no one is listening as Kiku is carried away. The spectators jeer at Kiku for being low class, but Urashima silences them, reminding them that they are all vulgar and lower class compared to him. He tells Kiku to become his wife, but Kiku says that the only vulgar thing here is his heart and cuts off his topknot with, which makes Luffy excited.

The onlookers stare in shock as Kiku sheathes the sword after cutting off Urashima's topknot. Urashima quickly becomes enraged, and Kiku is caught off-guard and wonders about this shameful act. Despite asking for Urashima's forgiveness, he is preparing to unleash the full force of his harite attack on Kiku. However, Luffy counters Urashima's open-palm strike with his own hand, and the two meet in a powerful clash. The impact pushes both of them back toward the edges of the ring, and they struggle to stay on it as they teeter off the edge. After they recover their balance, Urashima tells Luffy to get out of his way, saying he needs to tear Kiku apart to protect his honor. Luffy has no issue with that, but wants to challenge Urashima in a sumo wrestling match first.
Urashima unleashes rapid strikes, but Luffy dodges all of them. The sumo wrestler then tries to take out Luffy's head and eyes illegally, but misses again. Meanwhile, a samurai reports to Holed'em about what Kiku did to Urashima, but the headliner does not care as he attempts to pull food out of Tama's cheek. Holed'em recalls that Tama had mentioned the Kozuki Family earlier, and tells her to not cling on to them, saying that they were planning to destroy Wano Country 20 years ago. Back in the sumo ring, Luffy stretches his arm very far back and enlarges his forearm to slam his massive palm into Urashima's entire body. The force of the attack sends Urashima flying out of the ring and through several buildings, leaving them in ruins.
The spectators are aghast at Urashima's defeat, and they notice that the wanted criminal Zoro is with Luffy and Kiku. They go to report this to Holed'em as Luffy declares his intention of rescuing Tama, and the Gifters and samurai under Holed'em go on the attack. Luffy and Zoro invite them to bring Holed'em out as they and Kiku overwhelm the fighters, and a fire breaks out in the town. Holed'em then calls out to Luffy from atop a roof, holding Tama in his lion's mouth, and he reveals that his house was destroyed when Luffy sent Urashima flying into it. He asks if they are subordinates of the thief Shutenmaru, and tells them not to move, or else he will crush Tama with his lion's jaws. Outside of Bakura Town, Basil Hawkins is in contact with the pirates inside as he and his men head to assist them, and elsewhere, Bepo falls ill after eating a poisoned fish. As he deals with his subordinate, Law hears from Shachi about the fire and Hawkins' arrival at Bakura Town.

In Okobore Town, a mother silences her son who is crying out of hunger, while a father rushes to Tsuru to try to get some jyagan grass after his child drank the river water. Deep within Bakura Town, however, is the "Paradise Farm", which is overflowing with good food and water. One of the workers is only paid five silver for his efforts there, and is beaten up when he argues that this cannot support his family. The Beasts Pirates headliner Speed brings out the cart of provisions from Paradise Farm, intending to take it to her crew when she hears the fire bell ringing. She oversees the effort to put out the fire when she notices that Holed'em's house was destroyed in a path of wreckage.
Meanwhile, as Tama cries out for help, Holed'em taunts Luffy, Zoro, and Kiku, saying that his lion Kamijiro will tear her apart if any of them make a move. Holed'em asks the trio if they know about Tama's Devil Fruit ability, and says they will be held hostage to lure out Shutenmaru, who is the leader of the Mt. Atama Thieves that were responsible for the thievery at Paradise Farm a few weeks ago. Holed'em believes that someone as powerful as Luffy has to be Shutenmaru's top subordinate. Kiku warns Luffy to not make Holed'em angry, as everyone in town is afraid of Jack, who is the true ruler of Kuri and backs Holed'em. Luffy and Zoro recognize Jack's name, and are surprised that he is alive as they thought he sank into the bottom of the ocean. However, Kiku reveals that Jack was seen in the area a few days ago, and thus he would come to make the area a wasteland if Holed'em is attacked.
This makes Luffy angry, and Holed'em simply laughs as he increases Kamijiro's pressure on Tama. Speed then arrives with the cart of provisions, wanting to know what is going on. The Beasts Pirates rejoice after seeing the food, and Luffy is angry that only they get to have it. He and Zoro then prepare to attack, and as Hawkins and his men head into town, they are suddenly confronted by Law. Law wears a basket over his head in order to keep Hawkins from recognizing him, and is intent on getting rid of his fellow Supernova quickly.
Meanwhile, Holed'em decides to execute Kiku, but as his men proceed with the order, Luffy attacks Kamijiro in the blink of an eye and frees Tama. As Luffy speeds away with Tama in his arms, Zoro cuts down the Beasts Pirates down below and Komachiyo frees Kiku and leave Bakura Town. Luffy then notices Tama's bruised cheek, and she reveals that Holed'em tried pulling food out of it with pliers. An enraged Luffy then drops Tama and stretches out his arm, and Holed'em has Kamijiro breathe fire at Luffy as he prepares to strike the pirate with his Karakuri Sword. However, Luffy is unharmed by the fire and hits Holed'em in the face with Red Hawk as Tama continues to fall.

Luffy grabs Tama as Holed'em falls to the ground, and Zoro has Komachiyo continue taking him, Kiku, and the provisions cart to Bakura Town's entrance. Luffy picks up Tama and starts to run away, but when he sees the backside of Speed's horse body, he thinks she is a horse and jumps on her back. After realizing what has happened, Speed gets angry and her subordinates rush at Luffy, but Luffy tells Tama to make some kibi dango from her body. He then tells her to tame Speed with it, and Tama reveals that the food does not work on humans, but to their surprise Speed eats it and becomes tame and subservient to them. Speed gallops at full speed and catches up to the provisions cart as her bewildered subordinates chase after her, and Tama tells Luffy that he was just like Ace when he hit Holed'em with Red Hawk.
Near the front gate of Bakura Town, a disguised Law prepares to take out Hawkins as he activates his ROOM. However, Hawkins quickly recognizes Law due to the ROOM and the tattoos on his hands, and Law uses Shambles to transport himself right next to Hawkins. He cuts Hawkins diagonally, but Hawkins uses his Devil Fruit power to transfer the cut to a subordinate. Law is surprised at Hawkins' powers, and Hawkins turns his sword into straw to lift Law's mask off his head. Law then attempts to nullify Hawkins' power by cutting all of his subordinates in half, and the two Supernovas' blades clash. Hawkins welcomes Law to Wano Country and reveals his knowledge about Law's alliance. Law is shocked to hear this, and Hawkins reveals he already encountered Luffy and Zoro before getting a call revealing that Holed'em has been defeated and Jack has been notified.
Right then, the provisions cart comes barreling onto the scene, and Law hitches a ride on it as he angrily yells at Zoro for abandoning his post and getting them into deep trouble. The provisions cart heads out of Bakura Town, and goes to Okobore Town, and the citizens there rejoice as they are given the great quantities of fresh food. Batman and two other Gifters attempt to intervene, but are flattened when Luffy slams a massive tub of water onto the ground for the citizens to drink. The citizens thank Luffy for his actions, and Luffy states that this is repayment for the food Tama gave him. Luffy tells Tama to not be satisfied with the provisions cart, saying that by the time he leaves, she will be able to eat until she is full every day. Tama is shocked as she remembers Ace saying the same thing during his visit, and starts tearing up.
As the remaining Beasts Pirates try to deal with the mess left in Bakura Town, Hawkins contacts someone, saying that Holed'em was taken down by a force strong enough that not even he could have stopped it. He then appears to notice someone. At Okobore Town, Law tells Luffy and Zoro that they are going to relocate to the ruins of Oden Castle on top of a nearby mountain. He says they are going to meet the ghosts of Wano country, saying that Luffy is in for a surprise once he gets there. The scene then changes to the top of said mountain where the graves for Kozuki Oden, Momonosuke, Kin'emon, Kanjuro, and Raizo are seen.

Luffy leaves Tama in the care of the submissive Speed. Tama says she will never forget getting to taste new foods and says she will take some to her master, and Luffy says he will bring back Komachiyo and Nidai Kitetsu later. Speed then carries Tama off into the distance, and the residents of Okobore Town thank Luffy for bringing them the Treasure Ship. Luffy, Zoro, Law, and Kiku then ride Komachiyo toward the ruins of Oden Castle. Luffy wonders why Kiku is going with them, and Kiku pretends tells him just wants to see it, when the truth is to keep an eye on their intentions in going there. Zoro quickly realizes that Kiku is hiding something from them.
In the Flower Capital, a teacher instructs her students about the benefits of Wano Country's closed borders, and the students jeer at Kozuki Oden and his nine red scabbards for attempting to open Wano's borders 20 years ago. The teacher then elicits cheers from them when she states that Kurozumi Orochi heroically killed the Kozuki Family and kept Wano peaceful. Meanwhile, the money changer Kyoshiro, while intoxicated, starts to laugh as he recalls a situation that Orochi has found himself in. 20 years ago, the wife of Oden proclaimed a curse on Orochi, who interpreted it as a prophecy that nine samurai would kill him in revenge and open Wano's borders in 20 years. Kyoshiro mocks Orochi for believing this and living in fear now that 20 years have passed, as there should be no Kozuki Family member still alive and able to take revenge.
Luffy's group arrives at Oden Castle, and Kiku starts getting emotional before hurrying off alone. Luffy notices that Zoro went somewhere as well, and Law tells him to come toward him. Luffy sees the group of gravestones, and is shocked at the graves for Kin'emon, Momonosuke, Kanjuro, and Raizo. Luffy wonders where Kin'emon is, and Law replies that Kin'emon is not here, but will likely appear at night. This makes Luffy think that he is a ghost, but Kin'emon then comes out, having been occupied with intense diarrhea, and Luffy gets angry at Law for his choice of words. Kiku then rushes toward Kin'emon and tackles him in a hug, though gets mad at him for not revealing his return to Wano. Kiku then realizes that the Straw Hats and Law are the outside force that Kin'emon's group was able to recruit. Momonosuke then greets Luffy, and he is quickly followed by the arrival of Sanji, Nami, Chopper, Brook, and Carrot, who were able to find Luffy using his Vivre Card. Law then invites the Straw Hats inside to talk, where they could eat food he had stolen from Paradise Farm. When inside, Kin'emon reveals that there is a secret they should tell the Straw Hats before they get started, and reveals that they came from the past and got here by traveling 20 years forward in time.

Kin'emon starts to talk about Kozuki Oden, revealing that Oden Castle's real name was Kuri Castle, but it was called Oden Castle because of the Kuri residents' great love for Oden. Oden was the son of the shogun Kozuki Sukiyaki, but was exiled from the Flower Capital due to getting into violent fights. At that time, Kuri was a lawless area where criminal gangs formed to rob and kill each other. Oden went there and challenged Ashura Doji, who was considered the most dangerous man there. He defeated Doji, and rounded up the criminals and corrected their path, teaching them to be workers who could build towns to live in. He built the Paradise Farm for everyone to eat clean food, and after Sukiyaki had heard of his son's deeds, he bestowed on Oden the title of Daimyo of Kuri when Oden was only 20 years old.
Elsewhere, Zoro is all alone in the wilderness, and as he looks for his comrades, he sees a wharf and decides to take a ride there. On a beach in Kuri, Inuarashi sits with his Musketeers, and he recalls how Oden felt Wano Country was too cramped. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi had washed up on Wano when they were young, and everyone feared them except for Oden, who defended them from those who tried persecuting them. Inuarashi views Oden as a true hero, recounting how even Whitebeard and Gol D. Roger were captivated by him.
However, the Straw Hats' moods changed from happy to shocked as Kin'emon reveals what happened to Oden during Orochi's takeover 20 years ago. He recounts how after Oden was brought to the Flower Capital and executed, he, Kanjuro, Raizo, Kiku, Inuarashi, Nekomamushi, and another samurai managed to escape from the scene. However, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi were caught by Orochi's men, and the remaining members of the group had no choice but to press on to Oden Castle to try to protect Momonosuke's life. Kaidou had anticipated their plan, however, and set Oden Castle ablaze before they got there. Kin'emon's group managed to break in and find Momonosuke with his mother Toki and younger sister Hiyori. Toki, who was rumored to have been born in the distant past, revealed that she could go into the future with her Toki Toki no Mi abilities. She decided to meet her end here, and as Kin'emon promised to fulfill Oden's goal of opening Wano's borders, she sent him, Momonosuke, Kanjuro, Raizo, and Kiku 20 years into the future.
Kin'emon's group found themselves in the remains of Oden Castle, and discovered the graves for them nearby. As they traveled around Wano, they discovered the pollution and corruption that had taken root. However, despite the nation's hatred for the Kozuki Family, they managed to find allies who had waited for the fulfillment of Toki's proclamation that the family would return. Kiku was left to gather information on their enemies, while the rest of them went to sea to recruit allies. They were spotted by Orochi's men as they left, and shipwrecked on the way to Zou, where they parted ways with Raizo. They then drifted to Dressrosa, where Kanjuro was captured as Momonosuke was taken to Punk Hazard. There, Kin'emon had been dismantled by Law, but it was in that desperate situation when he found the Straw Hats and gathered an alliance together. However, Kin'emon reveals that the goal of this alliance now is not to wage war, but to secretly work to take out the commander. In two weeks, on the night of the Fire Festival, he plans for the alliance to stage a raid on Onigashima, where Kaidou resides.

Answering Brook's question about how they will get to Onigashima, Kin'emon states that they do have a ship, although it will not be a long voyage since the island is very close to Wano. Kiku says that Kaidou is considered to be the "Wise King" that protects the country, and every year Orochi and his men go to Onigashima seemingly to pay respects to him, but in reality, they just have a raucous banquet. Sanji hopes that Kiku will fall in love with him instead of Kin'emon once she sees him during the mission, but Kin'emon reveals that Tsuru is actually his wife. He then pulls out a piece of paper with a symbol on it that will communicate the time and place of the planned raid, and his goal now is to give these papers to those with the crescent moon symbol on their ankle, which signifies rebellion against Kaidou and loyalty to the Kozuki Family.
Zoro and Usopp are tasked with looking for allies in the Flower Capital, while Franky works for the architect of Kaidou's residence to obtain its blueprints and Robin is training as a geisha in the hopes of gaining Orochi's audience so she can spy on him and his men. Brook is tasked with acquiring food provisions from the capital while Sanji uses his culinary skills to draw in people to help search for allies. Chopper and Carrot are to Inuarashi's location. Kin'emon has the Straw Hats put leaves on their head, which he turns into disguises with his Fuku Fuku abilities. Kin'emon then summons the kunoichi Shinobu to train Nami in the art of bewitchment and states that there are three samurais they particularly need to find, as each of them is worth a hundred men, namely Kawamatsu, Denjiro, and Ashura Doji.
Meanwhile, Shutenmaru and the Mt. Atama Thieves raid Okobore Town and steal the food that Luffy gave to the citizens despite their pleas. Shutenmaru scoffs at the heroism of feeding these people, saying their gifts were no more now that he is here to steal them, and there are no longer any men left in Wano who can guide the samurai to defend the people. One old woman responds that she believes in Toki's prophecy about nine samurais carrying out Oden's wishes, but Shutenmaru finds the belief silly and prepares to kill her. However, he is stopped when Jack arrives and quickly takes out several of his men with his crocodile-like steed. Jack tells Shutenmaru about Luffy being in this area, but Shutenmaru says he has no knowledge of the pirate. Jack says that Shutenmaru has only been left alive this long because Kaidou wants him as his subordinate and Shutenmaru answers by charging toward Jack and cutting him across the chest, breaking one of the Disaster's blades. Jack and Shutenmaru then spar in a high-level duel as the citizens worry that their clash will destroy the town. Jack manages to injure Shutenmaru's shoulder, but Shutenmaru is unfazed as he says there is no way Jack could take him down. Suddenly, Jack's men tell him to look behind him as a formation of dark clouds suddenly fills the sky. In the midst of these clouds is Kaidou, having flown to Kuri in his dragon form. Kaidou tells Jack to bring Luffy to him immediately, and Law reveals to Luffy who the dragon is.

Kin'emon confirms Law's statement that Kaidou has arrived, revealing that Kaidou can transform into a dragon. Momonosuke starts feeling unwell as he transforms into a dragon as well, shocking Kiku and Shinobu. Luffy notices that Kaidou is near Okobore Town, and in response to Kin'emon wondering why he came here, Law reveals that he, Luffy, and Zoro were exposed. However, he notes that this should not affect the plan too much, as Kaidou had his sights set solely on him and Luffy for taking down Caesar Clown and Doflamingo's SMILE operations. Luffy races toward Okobore Town, and Law decides to go after him, as them dealing with Kaidou should not expose the rest of their alliance.
At Bakura Town, the people there are sent into a frenzy at Kaidou's arrival, with Hawkins being surprised and Holed'em wondering if Kaidou came to execute him. The citizens of Okobore Town as well as the Mt. Atama Thieves attempt to run away as Kaidou hovers directly over them, and the Yonko recognizes Shutenmaru. Kaidou remembers his previous encounter with the thief and asks him to become his subordinate, revealing himself to be drunk in the process. Jack is shocked at his general's intoxication, saying that Kuri and its worker residents will likely be decimated if he continues his rampage.
Law catches up to Luffy as the latter keeps running toward Okobore Town, and reprimands him for trying to help the citizens. Meanwhile, Kin'emon and Kiku run toward Okobore Town as well after Kin'emon heard that Tsuru is there, and he is shocked that she did not remarry in the 20 years he was gone before telling Kiku to go back to Oden Castle. Hawkins rides into Okobore Town to tell Kaidou that Luffy and Law are at the ruins of Oden Castle, causing Kaidou to immediately head there. Hawkins reveals to Jack that he lied to Kaidou in order to stop his rampage and also to try eliminating a suspicious light there that has led to rumors about the Kozuki Family's return. While Luffy and Law are not at Oden Castle, much of their allies are, and they flee in terror as an enraged Kaidou flies right toward them. Kaidou passes by Luffy and Law as he unleashes a devastating fire breath that instantly obliterates Oden Castle, and the onlookers are shocked at how quick and powerful his attack was. Law then notices that Luffy is no longer beside him, and the people of Kuri watch as Luffy jumps over Kaidou and uses Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gun to hit the Emperor right on the head.

Kaidou's dragon form slams into the ground after being hit in the head by Luffy. As his subordinates flee the area, they take note that a samurai appeared to have been the one behind the attack. Reaching the ground, Luffy yells to his crew and asks if they managed to escape Kaidou's dragon breath attack. Elsewhere, Shutenmaru decides to stay and watch the fight instead of fleeing. Luffy hears several of Kaidou's subordinates discover Lady Speed who is heavily injured. Fearing for Tama's life, Luffy asks Lady Speed if she was able to get Tama out of the city safely; he learns that Kaidou spotted them and despite doing her best to protect Tama, Kaidou injured them both.
Angered by this, Luffy chastises himself for not going along with them and prepares to attack Kaidou. Law frantically tells Luffy they need to check on their respective crews and berates him for jeopardizing their plans; Luffy ignores Law and yells at Kaidou, getting his attention. Despite still in a drunken state, Kaidou recognizes Luffy and comments how he's finally arrived in Wano. He then unleashes another blast of fire towards Luffy, incinerating the immediate area; however, Lady Speed is able to propel Luffy into the air towards Kaidou's eye level. Luffy immediately activates Gear 3 and pummels Kaidou with numerous punches. The remaining Beast Pirates are shocked to see Kaidou taking such a tremendous beating and he falls from the sky, transforming back into his human form.
Luffy rushes forward, activates Gear 4 and resumes his attack. However, Kaidou gets back on his feet to the surprise of everyone. Glaring at Luffy, Kaidou swings his kanabo and strikes Luffy, seeming to dash forward, mocking his proclamation of becoming the Pirate King as Luffy soars through the air and is knocked unconscious from the blow.

Kaidou's subordinates examine the defeated Luffy, being surprised that he survived Kaidou's hit. Law moves to grab Luffy and run, but Hawkins shoots him in the arm with a nail made of Seastone, revealing that Seastone originated here in Wano and could only be refined to this level here. He then turns his sword into straw to attack Law with it. Kaidou notes that Luffy is still glaring at him, and tells his subordinates to throw him into a cell, saying that he will make a good subordinate once his will is broken. Kaidou also says to not mention that Luffy is a pirate in the newspaper report due to foreigners not being allowed in Wano. However, as his subordinates move toward Luffy, they are suddenly knocked out by his Haoshoku Haki, and Shutenmaru recognizes it as an ability that Oden used. Kaidou notes that Eustass Kid also used this Haki, and expressed annoyance on how they are too many people that can use Haoshoku Haki as he transforms back into a dragon as he flies off to get drunk again, having become sober.
Law escapes to the forest, and worries about his crew and allies. Hawkins' subordinates report to him in Bakura Town that Law has escaped, and he is alright with this, but swears to find him eventually. In Okobore Town, Kin'emon spies on Tsuru tending to a citizen named Gorobe. He comments that his wife is still beautiful, but has no intention of reuniting with her until after Oden's wishes are fulfilled. He then spots Shutenmaru riding off, and recognizes him as Ashura Doji. At the ruins of Oden Castle, Kiku is relieved to see the male alliance members still alive after Kaidou's attack. Sanji had carried the females to safety, while Shinobu had used her Juku Juku Jutsu to mature the ground below the males and cause a sinkhole to form. After the males escape from the sinkhole, Kiku prepares to tell the alliance members about the current situation. Meanwhile, Inuarashi and the Musketeers discover the injured Tama, and head into the forest to treat her immediately.
The news about Luffy and Kaidou's fight circulates through Wano, and Franky, Robin, Usopp, and Zoro are completely aghast when they hear it. The next day, in the Udon region, people are put hard to work making weapons in Kaidou's factories. In the dungeons of these factories, one of the Beasts Pirates delivers a poisonous fish to a certain cell. Their orders are to give a poisonous and boneless fish to feed the prisoner inside, who seems to be still alive in spite of the poison. The Beasts Pirate guards then rejoice as Luffy is brought in, and they taunt him. Luffy glares at them in response, and one of them tries to retaliate by attacking him with a sword. However, the mysterious prisoner spits out the fish skeleton at the guard and strikes him in the neck, causing him to be reprimanded for not taking the bones out of the fish as ordered. Luffy is brought into another room and thrown into a cell, and the guards say that starting tomorrow they will work him until his will breaks and he pledges allegiance to Kaidou. In the cell next to Luffy's is Kid, and both of them swear revenge against Kaidou, which causes them to notice each other as the curtains are drawn on the first act of the Wano Country Arc.

On Kuraigana Island, Perona reads a newspaper about Moria and is upset Mihawk didn't tell her. She almost leaves immediately to find him, as Mihawk wishes her safe travels as she tearfully thanks him for letting her stay with him. Mihawk then says that it is probably a good time for her to leave as some interesting topic was brought up at the Levely.
Meanwhile, in New World on the Pirate Island Hachinosu - Gecko Moria and his zombies are raiding the island and demands for Blackbeard. He is there to find Absalom who landed at the island a few days ago. Avalo Pizarro is notified of Moria's attack by some underlings. Suddenly Absalom shouts to Moria that this island is a paradise and that he forgot to report back to Moria. Moria is relieved that Absalom is safe, and says that he was worried because the Blackbeard Pirates are known to be "Ability User Hunters". All of a sudden, he is sliced from behind by someone. It is revealed to be an invisible Shiryu and Moria is surprised that he used Absalom's powers. Suddenly 'Absalom' starts laughing and it is revealed to be actually Catarina Devon who was disguised as Absalom using her Devil Fruit powers. A horrified Moria asks her what they have done to Absalom, and she replies that he is dead, and his corpse is still with them and mockingly asks if Moria wants it back.
Suddenly, Blackbeard's voice is heard from a loudspeaker as he summons an earthquake. Moria demands that he show himself, to which Blackbeard says that his island is a paradise for pirates. He asks Moria if he likes parties and asks him to sail under his flag. He then goes on to reveal the news from the morning's newspaper. On the fourth day of the Levely, Sabo and his group clashed with Marine Admirals Fujitora and Ryokugyu in order to take back their old ally, Kuma. Other news includes Luffy and the rookies' exploits in Wano Country and Big Mom's pursuit of them. He says that the bloody fight between the powerful has started for the throne and laughs.
As the second act in Wano Country begins, Ashura Doji and Inuarashi are clashing in the Kuri region's Mt. Mt. Atama while Kin'emon, Kiku, Shishilian, and some Mt. Atama thieves are onlooking. Kin'emon asks them both to stop the fighting. In Amigasa Village, Tenguyama thanks Chopper, Miyagi, and Tristan for saving and treating Tama's wounds. Tama says that Speed fought Kaidou for her sake and that she is more worried about Luffy. Chopper reassures her that Luffy's spirit will not be broken and reveals that Raizo has promised to break Luffy out of the prison.
Back at Mt. Atama, Kiku reprimands Shutenmaru for fighting Inuarashi, who replies that it has been like that since the beginning. He says he had always admired and followed Kozuki Oden and reminds them that his loyalty does not extend towards the Kozuki Family. Carrot is surprised that he was an even match for Inuarashi. Kin'emon says that he will make Shutenmaru his ally. Shutenmaru wishes him luck and says that no one is happy that the Kozuki Family's samurai have appeared again and that the 20-year blank that they left will never be filled.
At Onigashima, Jack is being scolded by someone because the offerings from Kuri have been decreasing lately. It is revealed that the one scolding Jack are none other than the All-Stars and remaining two Disasters of the Beasts Pirates, King the Wildfire and Queen the Plague. King says that they only need one useless guy which is Queen who quickly replies that King is the useless guy. Jack apologizes to them both and King asks Queen how long he is going to take to break the spirits of those imprisoned brats and Queen calls King a torture-loving pervert and tells him to shut up.

At the Flower Capital, people deliver newspapers containing not only stories, but also the Kozuki Family's secret message. Several people understand the message and realize that the family has returned. One person decides to join them, and an old man points out that Orochi has removed the citizens' access to weapons, but the man is willing to fight barehanded if he has to. Elsewhere, Usopp engages with the citizens at his toad oil stand, and in a building, two government officials discuss a very large weapons order from a client outside Wano Country. Nami spies on them from the ceiling as she trains under Shinobu to become a kunoichi, but one of the officials spots her looking glass and jabs a blade into the ceiling. Nami and Shinobu are forced to run away from his attacks, and Shinobu starts screaming, tipping the officials off to the presence of humans. However, the duo manage to escape, and Shinobu uses ninjutsu to glide through the air. Nami reveals that she found out when and where the weapons shipment is leaving, and Shinobu admits that she is afraid of sharp objects, much to Nami's chagrin. Nami then spots a long line for a soba stand operated by Sanji, and she is angry that he seems more focused on attracting women than samurai. However, a man approaches Sanji's stand, seemingly angry at his presence.
At the Prisoner Mines in Udon, prisoners are forced to do grueling work and are killed if they become unable to do so. An old man named Hyo receives only one ball of kibi dango for moving five big blocks of rock, and is appalled. The prison guard responds that Hyo is falling behind due to his age and will die soon as he attacks the old man. The prisoners are disheartened to see this, but know they will be killed if they go against the guards. However, Luffy and Eustass Kid move the blocks at a very fast pace; the guards lost count of how many they moved when they got to 500, which shocks them because Luffy and Kid should be weakened by their Seastone handcuffs. Luffy and Kid earn heaping bowls of kibi dango as a result, and the two bicker as they eat and argue over who moved more blocks.
The guards wonder how they are going to break the duo's spirits when Dobon, the vice warden, arrives. Dobon wants to know which prisoners cleared out the kibi dango rations, and Luffy and Kid are brought before him. Dobon is angry at the duo for only leaving him three pieces of kibi dango to eat, and the guards warn Luffy and Kid about the dangers of talking back: first they will lose their arms, then their legs, then be executed. Dobon prepares to discipline them by putting them into the mouth of the hippo fused with his body through SMILE, but a few seconds later, Dobon and his hippo fall to the ground defeated. Luffy and Kid emerge from the hippo's mouth and walk away, and a guard says they will be executed, but Kid replies that they cannot prove Dobon was attacked as the prisoners cheer for him and Luffy.

Sanji has opened a soba noodle stand. Robin, Franky, and Usopp are each having a bowl while discussing Luffy's whereabouts. Usopp compliments the noodles but Sanji brushes him off, saying Robin's opinion is the only one that matters. Robin compliments the food as well, much to Sanji's delight. Franky notices that Sanji's noodles are very popular with the women in the town, and wonders if he should serve dishes more geared to men's tastes to attract allies. Sanji only glares at him as three men approach the stand. The strangers note the line and Sanji tells them they can't cut, and one of them asks Sanji where he obtained permission to open his stand. The men are introduced as members of the Kyoshiro Family: Kaku, Kuni, and Suke. They try to racket the stand, saying they couldn't help Sanji if something bad happened to it, but Sanji is not concerned.
Robin remembers visiting the home of someone named Kyoshiro and concludes these men are his underlings, musing at how such an arrogant man could be a yakuza. Kaku, Kuni, and Suke begin to trash the stand, knocking over pots and slapping bowls out of customers' hands, including one being eaten by a young girl. Usopp and Robin rightfully retreat, knowing how Sanji gets when people waste food while Franky gets excited at the prospect of a fight. Everyone in the vicinity flees. Before Kuni can finish giving the other two an order, Sanji delivers a downward kick to the right side of Kuni's head and plants the mobster's face first into the pavement. Franky in the meantime has grabbed Suke and proceeds to suplex him from at least two stories up. Sanji feeds Kuni the spoiled noodles as punishment while Kaku runs away. Usopp, while not surprised by the outcome, wonders if what they did was okay, while Robin muses that they might have crossed the wrong people. They then realize that the line of customers they had moments ago has completely vanished before noticing a child whose noodles were knocked from her hands and how her constant smiling made her seem strange. Sanji gives her the last of the noodles. The child tells them how she heard about these delicious noodles and wanted to try them for herself, even going so far as being late for work to ensure she got a bowl. Her eyes widen as she tastes the food and is introduced as Toko, a child from the capital.
Toko makes a joke, telling the Straw Hats to put an "O" in front of her name. Robin, does so, saying the Japanese word for "man" in the process. Toko jokingly responds that she is a girl and this elicits laughs from Franky and Usopp. She then returns the bowl and remarks how late she is, then says that she will be down this street again shortly with the courtesans' procession happening today. Robin asks Toko if she is a kamuro. Toko replies that she is, and says goodbye, encouraging them to watch the parade as she runs off. Usopp and Robin laugh at how funny and energetic Toko is while Sanji gets excited about the procession Toko mentioned. Franky is confused by what courtesans and kamuro are. Robin's master interrupts their discussion, saying she was looking for Robin. She explains to Franky that courtesans can be likened to idols or celebrities. She goes on to talk about the most famous courtesan in the country, Komurasaki. She is the dream of men, the envy of women, and with beauty that could topple nations. Truly the perfect lady, this description excites the men, who don't believe the old woman. She tells them to listen to the cheering crowd and music in the distance that accompany Komurasaki. Umi goes on to say that the shogun is throwing a banquet in the castle, which is the procession's destination. As a kamuro, it is Toko's job to wait on Komurasaki. Umi then tells Robin that she too has been invited to the palace. Robin is overjoyed.
Meanwhile, Komurasaki and the procession are making their way to the palace, with admirers lined up along the route. Toko runs over to the literally sparkling and radiant woman, who had been worried by the young girl's absence. Authorities were radioing for help, saying that Komurasaki's presence had caused twenty fights, leading to blood loss. Her presence alone caused several faintings and blindings, as lovestruck men were left passed out with nosebleeds in her wake.
In the east district of the capital, Kaku tells Kyoshiro about what happened at the noodle stand. Kyoshiro is too busy to listen to the story, as he is on his way to the shogun's banquet as well. He orders Kaku to ask Queen to send assassins and doesn't care if they cause problems. At the castle, a page informs Orochi that Komurasaki is on her way. The chapter ends with two figures silhouetted behind a sliding door. One is the page and the other is what appears to be a multi-headed dragon.

The day after Dobon's defeat, the prisoners of Udon constantly express their admiration for Luffy and Kid. Hyo thanks Luffy for saving him, but Luffy considers it no big deal and gives the old man some of his meal exchange tickets. Raizo then approaches Luffy to reveal that he has located the key to Luffy's Seastone handcuffs, but it is inside a heavily guarded Seastone box. Caribou asks Luffy to give him some meal tickets as well, promising to be his subordinate if he does, but Luffy refuses and tells him to join Kid. Caribou does not wish to join the other Supernova as he had heard that Kid had his arm cut off by one of Big Mom's subordinates, but Kid overhears this and throws his pickaxe at Caribou. He clarifies that he had injured a Sweet Commander in his battle with the Big Mom Pirates, and had lost his arm before that in a battle with the Red Hair Pirates. He then declares to Luffy that he will be the one to take down Kaidou, and Luffy declares the same thing in opposition to Kid, causing Caribou to be appalled at them.
In the Flower Capital, Sanji, Usopp, and Franky watch along with the citizens as the oiran Komurasaki makes her way down the street. However, she is confronted by three destitute-looking men, who attempt to kill her with knives. A guard swiftly takes all of them down with one strike, and one of them, Bingo, looks at Komurasaki in anguish. He remembers her coming to him, wanting to be with him forever if he could purchase her freedom before she was taken by Orochi. Bingo agreed to pay the heavy price without wavering, and sold everything he had, including his home, livelihood, and even his family. He gave all the money he earned to Komurasaki, fully trusting her and thus not using any legal safeguards.
After giving the last amount of money she needed to one of her aides, he later went to her shop to have her leave the Red Light District with him. However, Komurasaki's subordinates laughed at him, wondering if he really fell this far. Komurasaki then comes out, revealing that she spent all of the money Bingo gave her, and Kyoshiro appears besides her and addresses Bingo as a stalker. Having realized that Komurasaki tricked him, Bingo breaks down, and some of her subordinates go to remove him from the premises of her shop. Back in the present, Komurasaki addresses Bingo and the two other men she swindled, calling them disgraceful and saying that men are nothing more than dogs who bring her money. Some of the Flower Capital's forces then arrive and subdue Komurasaki's assailants, exiling them from the village for having no money as Komurasaki arrives at Orochi's palace.
At Amigasa Village, Tama talks to a training Momonosuke, asking him about the sister he had mentioned. Momonosuke confirms that he has a sister named Hiyori, saying that she would be 26 now if she is still alive, which he believes she is since he has heard nothing about her death. Tama says it would be nice if he could reunite with her, but Momonosuke replies that doing so would endanger her and so he cannot do so until their war is over.

Minatomo is chastising Franky for slacking off on the job by going to see Komurasaki. Franky apologizes, blaming Komurasaki's beauty. Minatomo does acknowledge Franky's work ethic, but reminds him that his own credibility is at stake too. Franky asks if he could see the blueprints of Kaidou's mansion that Minatomo had mentioned before. Minatomo then remembers he had pawned them earlier. This revelation causes Franky to lose his temper and start attacking his boss, saying he only started working for Minatomo because of those blueprints. Another carpenter comes to Minatomo's rescue and hits Franky in the back of the head with a log. Franky then start fighting with the other carpenters as well. A furious Minatomo tells Franky he is fired, which Franky does not mind.
Elsewhere in town, Kanjuro is masquerading as a fish monger, selling fish drawings that he made with his ability to unsuspecting people. Franky runs past him and Kanjuro asks what is wrong. After berating the samurai for his awful disguise, Franky tells him what he learned about the whereabouts of the mansion's design plans. They go to the pawn shop where the owner at first has a hard time recalling the item the two are looking for. Then he remembers that Kumagoro bought them. Franky then goes to Kumagoro's house, who tells him the landlord, Kobe, took them in lieu of rent. Kobe tells them he gave the plans to Kisegawa, his favorite geisha. Kisegawa remembers using them as a coaster, then Tokijiro told her something. Tokijiro tells Franky that his friend Camel said the plans were valuable, so he sold them. Rakuda tells Franky those blueprints only caused him problems. A man stole them from him. The thief's face was hidden but he said he was from Kuri. Franky calls Kin'emon and tells him what he learned and asks what his next step should be. Kin'emon apologizes for all the trouble Franky went through, then starts to ponder who in Kuri could have stolen the plans. Kin'mon then addresses the minks with him, telling them they've stolen quite a lot and could steal more, but Kaidou's henchmen are catching on to them. Inuarashi asks if they left the card that falsely claimed the mountain bandits were behind the thefts, hoping the ruse will work.
In the Kibi ruins, Zoro is walking with a taikomochi named Tonoyasu, or Yasu for short. Yasu is singing Zoro's praises, much to the swordsman's chagrin, saying how strong and handsome Zoro is. Zoro tells him he is thankful the drum carrier paid for his sushi, and Yasu goes on about how he knew going with Zoro was a great idea. He recalls how Zoro won a lot from gambling and how the other gamblers tried to attack him, only to be beaten senseless themselves. Yasu tells him that the men he fought are part of the capital yakuza, working under the Kyoshiro clan. Zoro interrupts Yasu's praising to remark that where they are seems familiar. Yasu tells him the city in the distance is the Flower Capital and that the small town before them is Leftover Town.
In the royal castle, Orochi is talking with some dark figures, jokingly asking if they are not actually trying to open Wano's borders. He then laughs, remarking how the group, revealed to be CP0, had to buy weapons from pirates in order to fight pirates. With Joker removed from power, CP0 has to negotiate with Wano directly now, and the group's panic means Orochi is completely in control of the price. He tells them that Wano is self-sufficient and generally his people are happy. If they wanted anything, it would be more power. For the last trade Orochi asked for battleships. This time, he wants Dr. Vegapunk to come to Wano. One agent tells him that is impossible. Orochi then shoots another agent as dragon heads come out of his body. Orochi does not care if his demands are possible. He does not fear any of the powers of the World Government because Kaidou is backing him.
Sometime afterward, Orochi is walking down a hall whose many doors open before him. He remarks that he does not have a care in the world. A servant tells him the menu for the evening, starting with a stuffed chicken. Before he can finish, Orochi turns it down and the poultry is immediately discarded. He does the same for some offered vegetables, but gladly accepts the cooked mackerel, tuna sashimi, and sake. He asks about his female company, and when told they are here, tells the geishas to raise their heads. He is taken by their beauty and tells them to act without a care in the world. He is especially excited to meet Komurasaki, who returns the sentiment. He tells everyone that the Fire Festival is next week and this party will be the prelude to it as members of the Kyoshiro clan look on. While one arm holds Komurasaki, the other raises a sake saucer as he tells everyone to eat and drink to their heart's content.
Back in the capital, everyone is fleeing in horror. Law tells Sanji to hide, saying the people coming know who they are. The people fleeing are saying that two of the Flying Six, Kaidou's six strongest Shinuchi, are on their way to kill the soba merchant. Specifically, X Drake and Page One, both having eaten Ryu Ryu Ancient type Zoan fruits; Drake having the allosaurus and Page One having the spinosaurus model. Drake asks why the two of them were called specifically and what Hawkins is doing there. Page One assumes they are there for show and Hawkins tells them he is looking for someone.

Tonoyasu brings Zoro to Ebisu Town, where the residents greet them. Zoro is surprised at how cheerful they are acting, even when they talk about being hungry. Yasu tells him that since humans have been blessed with the gift of laughter, it would be wasteful not to use it. Some of the citizens tell Yasu that Ushimitsu Kozo visited them last night, giving them money that he had stolen from the Flower Capital in the night. A child offers Zoro some clean water from a well, and he reluctantly drinks it as the Ebisu citizens continue smiling and laughing, saying they would not let poverty defeat them.
On Onigashima, Kaidou receives a report that the Big Mom Pirates are approaching Wano Country and have tied carp to their ship to pull them up the waterfall. An angry and distressed Kaidou orders his subordinates to sink them, but the crew accompanying Big Mom easily deals with the Beasts Pirates' defense system as they start scaling the waterfall. Big Mom excitedly prepares to confront Luffy and reclaim Zeus, and Kaidou grows more distressed as he orders for her to be stopped before an all-out war can break out. However, as the Big Mom Pirates reach the top of the waterfall, King comes flying in, having transformed into a pteranodon with the power of the Ryu Ryu no Mi, Model: Pteranodon. He attacks the front of the ship, halting its momentum and causing it to flip over as it falls straight down toward the bottom of the waterfall. King wonders what the Big Mom Pirates were thinking by sending only one ship to Wano, and the Beasts Pirates celebrate as Big Mom falls into the ocean.
In the Flower Capital, Usopp, Sanji, Franky, and Law are running away to avoid being caught by the Beasts Pirates sent to kill Sanji. Franky asks why they cannot disguise themselves and fight, but Law says it is too risky and getting injured here would hurt their chances in the final battle. However, Sanji then hears a woman screaming, and the team sees a building collapsing as Page One attacks it in his spinosaurus form and confronts the soba shop owners inside. He tells them to call out for Sangoro, and they do so as he continues attacking other food stands. Sanji then runs off despite his group's pleas and kicks Page One in the face, knocking him down. Page One contacts the rest of his group to reveal where he and Sanji are, and one of the soba shop owners gets angry at Sanji for letting his shop be destroyed. Although his group continues to tell him to run away before X Drake or Hawkins arrive, Sanji decides to stay and deal with Page One, who does not know who he is. Telling Usopp, Franky, and Law to go on without him, Sanji brings out his Raid Suit Canister, saying he will defeat Page One quickly without injuries and will be fine as long his identity is not exposed.

Sanji pulls out his Raid Suit canister to disguise himself, and the Flower Capital citizens are surprised that he actually showed himself, thinking he will be killed. Sanji decides it is worth it to put his pride aside to save the citizens, and activates the Raid Suit, saying that wearing it does not make him part of Germa and he might as well try it out. The transformation brings Sanji up onto a roof, donning him in a black outfit with a mask over his face. Law realizes that this is the suit of a character known as Stealth Black, having read Sora, Warrior of the Sea growing up. Page One asks what Sanji's name is, and Sanji calls himself "O-Soba Mask" before using his jet-propelled boots to boost himself forward. Page One lunges at the roof, but misses Sanji and loses sight of him. Sanji then kicks Page One out of nowhere without being seen, and Law reveals that Stealth Black is a fictional member of Germa 66 who is able to become invisible at will. Sanji remembers wanting to turn invisible since he was a child, and notes how ironic it is that the Germa technology he hates is what made this dream come true.
After being sent crashing into a building, Page One gets up and transforms into his hybrid form, wondering who Sanji really is. He charges and swipes at Sanji with his arm, and although Sanji counters it with his foot, he is blown through several buildings by Page One's sheer strength. However, he only feels a little pain thanks to the Raid Suit's protection, and since Page One has lost sight of him, he thinks Sanji is dead and prepares to bring his body to Kyoshiro. Law then runs off with Usopp and Franky, pointing out that Sanji told them to leave without him and that they likely cannot stay in the Flower Capital much longer, and so he intends to head to Ebisu Town. Sanji then flies up and says that he will have Usopp and Franky look into modifying his suit afterwards, before he unleashes a surprise attack on Page One from above, creating even more damage that Law's group sees from afar.
In Orochi Castle, as Orochi continues partying the night away, Robin sneaks through a courtyard into an old room containing many file cabinets. Robin thinks that a Poneglyph is likely somewhere in this country and looks around for a secret entrance, when she is caught by the Orochi Oniwabanshu, a group of ninja in service to Orochi. The Oniwabanshu mock Robin for acting suspicious around them, and their captain Fukurokuju then enters the room. Fukurokuju gives Robin just one chance to explain herself and her actions.
Meanwhile, Tama, Chopper, Momonosuke, and Kiku head to Kuri Beach, and Tama is worried about Luffy, as her master had said that no one escapes from the Udon prison. They then notice a massive person lying down on the beach, and after getting closer, Chopper realizes in horror that it is Big Mom. Chopper quickly tries to get the rest of the group to be quiet and run away before she wakes up, but when he realizes that she likely came to Wano to pursue his crew, he quickly decides to kill her with his sword. However, the constant questions about Big Mom by the Wano natives cause Chopper to shout, resulting in Big Mom stirring. Chopper and Momonosuke quickly run away as Big Mom awakens, but Chopper is then stunned as Big Mom wonders who she is, having lost all of her memories.

In Orochi Castle, Komurasaki dons a kitsune mask and begins playing her shamisen, to the delight of Orochi and his banquet guests. One of them wonders why Komurasaki always puts on the mask whenever she plays this song. In another room, Fukurokuju tells Robin to say her name and explain herself, saying that she will die a quick death if she does and will face torture if not. Robin claims that she is "Ushimitsu Kozo", and came to find out how money flows in the Flower Capital. Fukurokuju then tells the Orochi Oniwabanshu to capture Robin, and she is struck with shuriken and bound with ropes as one of the ninja says that Ushimitsu Kozo already appeared in the capital early today. However, Robin then disintegrates, and the real Robin hurriedly heads back to the banquet room, being glad she used a body double. The Oniwabanshu are stunned but figure that her real body is nearby, and quickly move to find her. Robin reports to Nami, Brook, and Shinobu that there are 11 ninja in the castle and that they found her out, surprising the first two. Fukurokuju tells the ninja to be covert and not disturb the banquet, and they head off into the darkness.
Robin returns to the banquet hall, and Orochi happily greets her, telling her to come talk to him. While they talk, Komurasaki pouts in jealousy, and Orochi fawns over her despite other guests' mentioning of her infamous reputation. Seeing one of the Oniwabanshu prowling the ceiling, Robin moves her mask to obscure herself before asking Orochi about Onigashima, and he is surprised to hear this question. As Komurasaki gets closer to the shogun, people commend Kyoshiro for raising her, though he responds that she was not trained like a mere dog. They then note that Kyoshiro sent the Beasts Pirates' Flying Six to avenge his yakuza group, and Orochi voices his approval for Kyoshiro's use of excessive force, saying that it is best to teach lessons not only to enemies, but to spirits as well. Orochi then tells everyone to listen up, cautioning them that Oden's wife Toki prophesied that this year will be the year of the Kozuki Family's revenge. He warns them that Oden's Nine Red Scabbards, now led by Kin'emon, have risen and are plotting to take over Wano once more, and he suspects that the attacks against Urashima and Jack in Kuri and the attack on Kyoshiro's subordinates at the soba stand were orchestrated by Kin'emon.
While he talks, the guests whisper incredulously amongst each other, believing the Nine Red Scabbards and almost everyone else associated with Oden to be long dead. Kyoshiro says that Oden's followers should come out now so they can be quickly dealt with, and Orochi agrees, saying that while Oden is definitely dead, the body of his son Momonosuke was never recovered and thus he must be still alive somewhere. By this point, the banquet guests are struggling not to laugh at the shogun's seeming delusion, but their mocking of his cowardice ultimately causes Toko to start laughing loudly. Upon hearing Toko, the guests are quickly gripped by fear as Orochi becomes enraged and offended by his beliefs not being taken seriously. He pulls out his sword and rushes toward Toko, and Komurasaki pleads with him to spare her, but he tells her to be quiet. Orochi swings his sword at Toko, who dodges, but before he can attack again he is slapped by Komurasaki. The guests quickly tell the courtesan to prostrate herself in apology, but she refuses to apologize for what she sees as right. She proclaims that as the daughter of a samurai, she would rather be struck down than live submissively as Orochi's wife, and Orochi berates a prostitute like her standing up to someone like him as he transforms into an eight-headed dragon using his Devil Fruit. Robin then picks up Toko and runs off as one of the Oniwabanshu spots her, and they run past Kyoshiro, who grabs his sword and says this is about to become a bloodbath.

Orochi, having transformed with the powers of the Hebi Hebi no Mi, Model: Yamata no Orochi, gives Komurasaki one last chance to prostrate herself in apology to him, desperately wondering if she is just playing with him. However, Komurasaki refuses to beg for her life, causing Orochi to go on an angry rampage. His eight heads attack everywhere they can, hurting some of his associates in the process, until he finally wrests Komurasaki into his mouth, leaving her helpless. One of the banquet guests asks Daikoku to stop Orochi's rampage, but Daikoku refuses, saying the shogun can do whatever he wants and that the Orochi Oniwabanshu's mission to find Robin is more important. Toko pleads with Robin to help Komurasaki, but Robin is unable to do so as the Oniwabanshu bear down on the two of them. However, Fujin and Raijin come onto the scene running in fear from Brook, whom they have mistaken for a Gashadokuro, and the other ninja start running in fear as well. Robin thanks Brook for his help and uses Gigantesco Mano to help repel the ninja, who wonder if the two of them are ghosts.
In the attic directly above the banquet hall, Nami spies on the chaos going on and Shinobu says that they should go back up Robin and Brook. However, they are confronted by the ninja Hanzo, who is surprised to hear the name of the renowned Shinobu. He does not think that the woman with Nami is Shinobu, though, causing Shinobu to get angry and throw a projectile into his groin, incapacitating him. Shinobu then uses her powers to break through the floor, sending a large chunk of it crashing onto Orochi below. The impact causes Komurasaki to be dislodged from his mouth, and as the banquet guests stare in shock at Nami and Shinobu's arrival, Kyoshiro stands before Komurasaki and asks if she is ready for what has to be done to her. She affirms this, and is struck down by Kyoshiro's blade. Everyone in the hall is aghast at what just happened, most of all Orochi, who is angry at Kyoshiro subverting his authority to show a samurai's mercy to Komurasaki. Kyoshiro then notices a slip bearing the Kozuki Family's hidden message, which surprises him. With Komurasaki down, Orochi chases after Toko again, and Nami brings Zeus out from her Clima-Tact. Right as Brook's facade starts to wear off and more soldiers come to help Orochi, Nami sends the electrified Zeus at the shogun, unleashing a massive lightning blast that shakes the entire castle.
The next morning in Okobore Town, Tsuru feeds Big Mom Oshiruko. Big Mom is thankful for the meal, even though it did not satisfy her. Chopper asks Tama, Momonosuke, and Kiku if their plan is a good idea, being afraid of Big Mom regaining her memories in the middle of it. Tama replies that they are worse off waiting here, and Chopper then tells Big Mom that there is a lot of shiruko in Udon, which causes her to immediately want to go there.

On the sea bordering Wano Country, the Big Mom Pirates sail on the Queen Mama Chanter and discuss their course of action. Perospero notes that Big Mom's Vivre Card indicates that she is still alive, and the crew speculates that Kaidou and his crew may have taken her captive. However, Smoothie interjects against her siblings' discussion of their mother's possible death, saying the logic of this situation would be unlikely to apply to her.
In Amigasa Village, Hitetsu contacts Tama and finds out about her group taking Big Mom to Udon. He tells her to return immediately, panicking due to being responsible for Momonosuke and not trusting the young Tama to protect him. Even after learning that Kiku is accompanying Tama and Momonosuke, Hitetsu does not sway, but Tama's group then cuts contact with him.
The group rides on a crocodile-shark creature through Kuri's wastelands, and Kiku faintly recalls hearing Big Mom's name before, but Chopper immediately dismiss it, and he notices that Big Mom's hat has not said a word since Big Mom arrived here. Big Mom asks if Udon is close by, being hungry for more food, but Kiku reveals that they still have a ways to go, guiding her through a map of Wano. Momonosuke practices his swordsmanship to prepare for the final battle, and he yells the word "Sunacchi" which he tells Kiku he learned from Zoro. However, Kiku tells him never to say that again, revealing it was once part of Kuri residents' dialect in older times and it was not fit for someone of Momonosuke's status.
At the Northern Cemetery in the region of Ringo, Nami, Robin, Brook, Shinobu, and Kanjuro sit in a house after escaping from the Flower Capital. Nami expresses her shock at Kyoshiro striking down Komurasaki, and Kanjuro states that he does not recognize Kyoshiro, as Wano's biggest yakuza boss 20 years ago was a man named Hyogoro of the Flower. Robin hopes that Toko will be safe after they dropped her off at the Red-Light District, and Nami says they could check on her on their way to the bathhouse later. Robin expresses disappointment at how little she found out from Orochi's circle, although it turns out that she found out a lot, and Brook then reveals that he discovered a Poneglyph in the basement of Orochi Castle. He says that the room containing it also had many figurines, which Shinobu identifies as kokeshi dolls, and Robin notes that Kaidou's Road Poneglyph must be on Onigashima as the group prepares to head to the bathhouses.
In the Flower Capital, the citizens are shocked and mournful after hearing about Komurasaki's death, including Sanji. Franky and Usopp are worried about what happened to Robin's group, but find that they can contact them using Wano's equivalent of the Den Den Mushi, the Smart Tanishi. Sanji then asks Law if Luffy is in the news, and Law does not find any mention of him, but does see that Kid has apparently escaped from Udon's prison.
At the Prisoner Mines, the guards announce Kid's escape, and one of them, Alpacaman, presses on Luffy due to being suspicious that he helped Kid. Right as this happens, Grandpa Hyo is being attacked by one of the guards, who knows that he could not have earned all the meal tickets he used. However, despite taking several blows, Hyo refuses to give up his kibi dango and let it go to waste. As the guard picks him up, Hyo refuses to reveal who gave him his food, revealing that he is Hyogoro and that his benefactor's actions reminded him of the old days when noble men lived in Wano, and he is now willing to die with this fulfillment. However, Luffy then races toward Hyogoro and the guard and moves to attack the guard despite the prisoners' pleas, and as this happens, Queen arrives at the Prisoner Mines, commenting that it is rather noisy inside.

In the Executive Tower of the Prisoner Mine, some guards report to vice warden Solitaire that someone stole the keys to the prisoners' Seastone handcuffs. They can only recall that the thief has a large face, and Solitaire berates them for their incompetence, telling them to search every part of the tower. Raizo is currently bouncing down a hall too quickly for the guards to see, and he looks forward to freeing Luffy of his handcuffs and escaping from the Prisoner Mine. However, Luffy has just kicked the vice warden Daifugo, the punishment for which is execution. The guards chant for Luffy's execution, and the prisoners mourn the inevitable result of his heroic action. The warden Babanuki notes that Luffy has extremely high willpower to injure Daifugo despite being weakened by the Seastone, and Luffy states that he is training with this handicap to get stronger. Babanuki wonders why Luffy is trying to get stronger in the face of impending death as he uses his elephant SMILE to unleash an explosive sneeze, and Luffy is blown back and stunned by the explosion.
Queen is then summoned out from a tent where he is ogling a picture of Komurasaki, being seemingly unaware of her death. After putting on a brief musical number for his subordinates, Queen sits on his throne and tells Babanuki to make an official ranking of his problems. Babanuki reveals to him that Eustass Kid has escaped, the keys to the Seastone handcuffs have been stolen, and that Luffy is trying to escape right now. Queen is greatly shocked by each announcement, and tells the guards to capture Luffy immediately.
In Ebisu Town, Tonoyasu offers the use of an empty house to Law, Usopp, and Franky. However, he tells them that Zoro has already left, having lost his sword and gone to chase after the one who took it. Law's group then notices that Sanji is not with them, and wonder in shock if he went to peep on the women's baths.
Nami, Robin, and Shinobu are currently bathing in the Flower Capital bathhouse, and they are able to relax with no enemies nearby, although Nami is less than enthused that this is a unisex bathhouse where males are ogling them. The trio then go to have the attendants scrub their backs, and overhear some people talking about Kyoshiro, recalling how the yakuza used to be allies of the commoners with Hyogoro being chief among them in that respect. Shinobu agrees with their assessment, saying they would have definitely be able to recruit every samurai to their cause if Hyogoro was still around, with it being likely that they will only recruit around 500 for the invasion. Hyogoro had been the face of the Flower Capital's underworld dealings 20 years ago, holding sway over the five other yakuza bosses and even having Oden's respect. Nami suggests finding him, but Shinobu states that he refused to submit to the Kurozumi Family and was killed by Orochi. Fukurokuju, her former superior, had pledged allegiance to Orochi in contrast, causing her to leave his service. At this point, Shinobu thinks Hyogoro is nothing more than an old tale.
Back in the Prisoner Mine, Luffy and Hyo are brought before Queen, and Luffy refuses to join the Beasts Pirates to be pardoned of his sentence. Queen recognizes Hyo as Hyogoro, laughing at how a legend like him would die a pitiful death. The other prisoners are shocked to find out Hyo's real identity, and Hyo accepts his death, but pleads with Queen to spare Luffy. Queen then comes up with an exciting idea, and as Raizo watches Luffy from a distance, the mysterious man in the cell behind him remarks how he looks exactly the same. Raizo asks who is in the cell, and the occupant reveals himself to be Kawamatsu, asking how Momonosuke is doing.

Raizo is amazed to learn his friend Kawamatsu is still alive. He asks to see his friend's face, but Kawamatsu can't since he is chained up. Kawamatsu inquires as to the date of the big battle and Raizo informs him about the Fire Festival. This pleases Kawamatsu, who asks Raizo to free him, the ninja happily agrees and Kawamatsu tells him to get the key to the cell. One of the jailers sees them talking and informs Solitaire. Raizo escapes using a smoke bomb, much to the guards' surprise, after which the guards start looking for him.
Elsewhere, Queen is leaving Raizo's apprehension to the guards while some of his henchmen set up an elevated sumo ring while Queen gleefully talks about executing two people. The event is ostentatiously titled "Queen's Contraception Concert: Sumo Inferno". This excites the guards. Luffy and Hyogoro are fitted with large collars. Using a pillar to demonstrate, Queen explains that if either of them leave the ring, claws will shoot out of the collar and decapitate them. Luffy likens them to the bomb collars that the Celestial Dragons use on their slaves. Queen further explains that the pair of them will be fighting a series of sumo matches. They will be fine as long as they keep winning, but will die if they step out of the ring and thus the execution will be over. However, Luffy can opt out of the execution right now if he chooses to join Kaidou's crew. There is no limit to the number of fighters Queen can put in a match, or the weapons they can use. As an act of mercy, Queen removes their seastone handcuffs, prompting Raizo to realize he grabbed the wrong key.
Luffy is elated to be free from the cuffs, and tells Queen he is actually a good person for basically letting them go free, prompting a baffled Queen to remind Luffy about the collars, saying they are worse than the handcuffs. Hyogoro asks Queen if they can go one at a time, saying he'll get in Luffy's way. Luffy asks Queen, addressing him as Balloon, if beating him would set him free. Queen berates Luffy for his rudeness and asks if he was paying attention. Queen's men are eager to start fighting. The crowd starts cheering as Queen begins the match. A female Beast Pirates member gives the signal to start and the fighters charge at Luffy, weapons drawn. Luffy only grins as he unleashes a burst of Haoshoku Haki, knocking out every fighter. Unimpressed, Luffy calls for the next round. Everyone is stunned, while Queen is amused by Luffy's ability to use Haoshoku Haki. In his cell, Kawamatsu muses about how noisy things have gotten since Luffy showed up and prays that he makes sure Hyogoro doesn't die.
At the Flower Capital bath house, Drake and Hawkins have raided the place, much to the surprise of everyone bathing. Hawkins asks Drake what he is doing there, and Drake tells him about his mission to kill Soba Mask. Nami asks Shinobu what they should do, adding how cowardly it is to attack someone in such a defenseless setting. Shinobu tells Nami and Robin to hide behind them and Robin wonders if they should fight. Hawkins commands all the bathers to line up and show him their ankles. Anyone with the reverse crescent moon tattoo will be taken in for questioning. Nami wonders how they know about the tattoo and Shinobu wonders if their plan was leaked.
Hawkins sees Nami hiding in the corner and orders her to come out, shooting his sword toward her. Robin gets ready to fight if necessary. Nami steps out and tries to act innocent. Hawkins's sword catches Nami's towel, making it fall to the ground and exposing her naked body for all to see, which causes several patrons to break out in nosebleeds. Nami picks up her towel when suddenly, a previously invisible Sanji in his raid suit gets a nosebleed as well and throws himself backwards from the force of the hemorrhage. The other women in the bath recognize him as Soba Mask. Nami and Robin are shocked to see him and his outfit. A henchman informs Drake of Soba Mask's presence, Drake enters the bath and immediately faints. Hawkins is stunned by this revelation, saying Drake should have said something ahead of time if he could not handle the sight of naked women, and a flustered Drake tries to deny it. Nami, Robin, and Shinobu see this as their chance to escape.
Hawkins asks Drake if he is from the North Blue, to which Drake confirms and is aware that Hawkins hails from there as well. Hawkins and Drake both realize that they are looking at the Germa 66's Stealth Black. Sanji manages to grab Nami, Robin, and Shinobu and escape using his raid suit. Robin asks if Sanji's nose is okay, and Sanji says he would be okay with dying right now. He then informs them that Kaidou knows about the ankle tattoos and that Law's crew has been captured while trying to break out Luffy, and are going to use them to lure him out. If they don't get to Law first, the capital will turn into pandemonium.
In the Ringo region to the northeast, Zoro is facing off against a large samurai on a snowy bridge. The man informs Zoro that he has returned Shusui to its proper resting place, saying it must have been stolen from Ryuma's grave, to which Zoro says he is aware. The man orders Zoro to leave or he will take the rest of Zoro's swords. Unfazed, Zoro reasons the man must be a weapons collector, and tells him they need a lot of weapons right now and that he is taking the samurai's weapon's collection. A battle between the two on the bridge begins.

While going from Kuri to Udon, Big Mom and Tama both fantasize over shiruko, and Big Mom cannot wait to eat more of it. This worries Chopper, as he fears that the absence of shiruko in the Prisoner Mine will cause Big Mom to regain her memories and go after Luffy instead. In the Prisoner Mine, Luffy wipes out the Pleasures in the sumo ring with ease as he works on repelling his opponents with Busoshoku Haki without touching them, like what Rayleigh did when he first demonstrated the Haki to him. Daifugo tells Queen that the execution would long be over if he had gone in the arena, but Queen is content to continue the fighting, valuing the length and number of fighters in a battle above all. As he watches, he eats bowl after bowl of shiruko, which he loves dearly and does not want to share.
On Oihagi Bridge in Ringo, Zoro tells Gyukimaru that he met Ryuma, but Gyukimaru refuses to believe him since Ryuma died centuries ago. As they spar, Gyukimaru talks about how Wano Country was once known as the City of Gold, and Ryuma led the country's samurai in defending it from many threats, causing him and his sword Shusui to become national treasures. Zoro does not care about that and is intent on regaining Shusui so he can possess all three of his swords again, and Gyukimaru replies that someone like him has no right to a Kokuto, which Shusui became after many battles. Zoro is intrigued at the mention of the Kokuto, having wondered about it himself, but before he can ask Gyukimaru about it, a woman suddenly cries out for help from behind him.
When Zoro turns around to see what is going on, Gyukimaru attacks him from behind, forcing him to quickly parry. An injured woman heads toward the bridge with Toko pleading for their lives, and Kamazo then leaps toward them to attack. Zoro counters his scythe, though is attacked again by Gyukimaru, who is intent on continuing their battle despite their situation. Kamazo wonders why Zoro and the woman are protecting Toko from him, and the woman states that although he is known as a rogue street murderer, he is actually an assassin serving Orochi. She then begs Zoro for help, and since he does not want to see them murdered, he agrees in return for food and alcohol. Zoro and Kamazo then battle, with Zoro remarking that the assassin is strong. However, Gyukimaru stands waiting on the bridge, and he then attacks Zoro after seeing an opening, forcing him to dodge again. The attack enables Kamazo to pierce Zoro through the shoulder with a scythe. However, he is unable to pull it out, and Zoro takes the scythe and puts it in his mouth to use Three Sword Style once again; he then charges at Kamazo and strikes him down.

Kamazo falls after being struck by Zoro's attack, leaving Gyukimaru, Toko, and the woman in awe. Zoro is unhappy that he received an injury before the final battle, and as Gyukimaru takes one of Kamazo's scythes and walks away, Zoro grows dizzy and faints from his wound.
Meanwhile, Kin'emon arrives at an abandoned village in Kuri and reports to Inuarashi and the Musketeers that Kaidou and Orochi's forces have discovered the meaning of the crescent moon mark and the secret message they distributed. As they wonder how the message was exposed, Kaidou and Orochi's henchmen arrest several of the Kozuki Family's allies in the Flower Capital. As he patrols the city with Hawkins, X Drake is unhappy at how word has spread quickly about the crackdown, leaving them unable to go anywhere in peace. In the Red-Light District, one of Kyoshiro's men reports to him that Komurasaki's wake has been canceled due to the high emotions of the masses mourning her death. Many of them are gathered outside of Kyoshiro's residence, with some of them being angry at him for killing her. However, Kyoshiro says that killing her was the only thing he could have done, and he was the one hurt most by her death. He then examines the secret Kozuki message he had found at the banquet, noting that Orochi is angry because of it.
In Ebisu Town, Sanji, whose face is heavily beaten by Nami due to the bathhouse experience, pleads for Law and Shinobu to stop fighting. Shinobu believes that Law's captured crewmates revealed the meaning of the message, and Law absolutely refuses to consider that, intending to prove her wrong once he rescues them. Shinobu replies that they should be disposed of regardless, as they could not afford for things to go wrong in the plan they had waited 20 years to come to fruition. However, Kanjuro disagrees with her, saying that it is most important that they retain the allies they have made, as otherwise they will be unable to bring down Orochi and Kaidou. Tonoyasu then enters their house, and recognizes Shinobu and Kanjuro, to their surprise. He shows them a copy of the message and talks about the rumors swirling around the Flower Capital, wondering if the time has indeed come for the final battle.
Zoro wakes up in a house in the Northern Cemetery, and the woman tells him to keep lying down as she thanks him for saving her and Toko. Zoro immediately attempts to leave to find Gyukimaru and Shusui, but the woman holds him back, inadvertently aggravating his wound. Toko offers Zoro some toad oil she stole to help heal the wound. As Zoro receives the food and alcohol he had requested, the woman tells him about Gyukimaru, revealing that he ambushes everyone who comes to Oihagi Bridge to take their weapons. Zoro then asks who they are, wondering why Kamazo was pursuing them. The woman says that they were forced to leave the Flower Capital after angering Orochi, and since she trusts Zoro, she decides to reveal that she is Kozuki Hiyori, and she is looking for her older brother Momonosuke.

Zoro is shocked to find out that Hiyori is Momonosuke's younger sister, and his exclamation confirms to her that he is still alive. Hiyori is happy to know this, saying that Zoro's arrival during the Kozuki Family's rumored return must mean that he is Momonosuke's ally. She does consider that Zoro might be an enemy trying to capture her brother, but Zoro assures her that he is an ally. Hiyori then explains how Momonosuke was sent 20 years forward in time, and Zoro is suspicious about Toko's presence, but Hiyori assures him that she is a rare friend who has known the truth about her and helped her push forward. Hiyori remembers the death of her parents and disappearance of her brother 20 years ago, where she did not believe Momonosuke's promise to return in 20 years and lost her will to live. Zoro asks why she did not go with him, and Hiyori reveals that it was to ensure the Kozuki Family's bloodline would survive if the plan did not go right.
She was taken care of by the retainer Kawamatsu, who managed to secretly take her out of the burning castle by digging down into the water channel and swimming through it. Kawamatsu had done everything he could to cheer her up, eventually breaking her out of her silence. They were separated when she was 13, but Hiyori is confident that he is waiting somewhere for the final battle. Zoro then tells her that Inuarashi and Nekomamushi are here, which overjoys her as she thought they had died. Zoro notes the Nine Red Scabbards he has met and wonders who the remaining three are. Hiyori reveals that they are Kawamatsu, Denjiro, and Ashura Doji, and she does not know where any of them are, but is confident they will understand the secret message to the final battle. Zoro reveals that the shogunate found out about their rendezvous location and are arresting their allies, which worries him, but he decides to just rest for the time being. Hiyori gets excited about seeing her brother and retainers, but considers not doing so until after the final battle.
In the Flower Capital's Rasetsu District, Orochi's forces throw the Kozuki Family's allies into a prison. Fukurokuju mocks how they were exposed, and the prisoners try claiming that the crescent moon symbol on their bodies means nothing, but Fukurokuju replies that the accompanying messages in their possession leave no doubt. The citizens are able to see inside the prison and marvel at how many people were secretly loyal to the opposition, and Orochi's forces use the prisoners as an example of what happens when you oppose Orochi and Kaidou.
In the Prisoner Mines, Kawamatsu remarks from his cell that he wants to sumo wrestle as Alpacaman and Madilloman enter the Sumo Inferno ring. Madilloman proclaims that he will quickly put an end to Luffy and Hyogoro with his Seastone bullets, not caring about the audience's pleas against such a quick ending. However, Luffy tells Hyogoro to run to the right, bend his knees, and jump. Hyogoro does this, and in the process dodges Madilloman's bullets, dodges Alpacaman's spit, and headbutts Alpacaman on the chin. Hyogoro is stunned to see that Luffy can predict the future, and Luffy dodges Madilloman's shots with ease, frustrating the Gifter. Luffy then moves to attack Madilloman, and Madilloman uses his armadillo SMILE to shield his head, but to his surprise Luffy does not hit him as he continues unsuccessfully attempting to project Busoshoku Haki from his palm. Luffy then saves Hyo from Alpacaman, and Hyo wonders what Luffy is trying to do. Luffy explains the move he is trying to acquire, with the hope of using it to break through Kaidou's scales. As they dodge their opponents' attacks, Hyogoro realizes that Busoshoku Haki is the outsiders' term for an ability used by samurai to strengthen their swords, revealing that he learned this technique long ago. He then races toward Alpacaman and hits him with a powerful shockwave, defeating him. Luffy affirms that this is the exact technique he wants to learn, and asks Hyogoro to teach it to him.

A short time ago, Law had left Ebisu Town to rescue his crewmates, criticizing Shinobu for not trusting them and eroding their alliance. In the present, Usopp wonders why Shinobu decided to blame the Heart Pirates for exposing the alliance's secret messages, but Nami understands why she feels so strongly about it; both of them admit that they would expose the alliance quickly if captured. They then hear some men shouting in hostility nearby, and an old woman reveals that they are former Flower Capital citizens who were brought here yesterday. The first one, Bungo, committed arson every night and bribed the city officials to stay out of trouble. The second one, Bongo, is a former lumber dealer who profited from the arson by selling lumber to the people rebuilding their homes. The third one, Bingo, was a priest who performed funerals for those killed by the arson with a massively increased rate. However, they all fell in love with Komurasaki and were swindled by her. The old woman then claims that everything she just said was a lie, but Nami does not believe her and wonders who she is and how she knew Komurasaki. Usopp finally recognizes the trio from their attack on Komurasaki in the Flower Capital yesterday, and the woman states that although Tonoyasu has done his best to care for them, they continue causing nothing but trouble.
Inside a house, Tonoyasu remarks to Kanjuro, Shinobu, Sanji, Robin, and Franky how the secret message was effective in spreading the word of the Kozuki Family's return, but became too effective and led to the enemy understanding it. He asks them to tell Kin'emon that he will definitely be joining the final battle, and he says he will have a busy week up ahead of him, wondering what to do first. He then leaves, and the Straw Hats ask Kanjuro and Shinobu who he is. To their shock, they do not know, and did not want to be rude in questioning him if he was once someone of high ranking. Yasu goes around town checking on the citizens and their ailments, and giving them portions of food and water to consume. The old woman says that Yasu is able to earn more money thanks to selling his daughter Toko to the Flower Capital, and Toko gives him most of the money she earns. However, Yasu does not want to keep the money for himself, and so shares it around with the townspeople, causing him to be absolutely beloved by everyone.
In the Prisoner Mine, Hyogoro instructs Luffy about advancing his Busoshoku Haki, telling him to make all the Haki flow through his fist. Luffy punches Madilloman and many more Beasts Pirates out of the arena, but does not succeed in projecting Haki from his fist. Luffy and Hyo continue fighting until night falls, and the Beasts Pirates retire until morning and leave the two in the ring without food. Hyo asks Luffy why he wants to fight Kaidou, and after knocking out the remaining guards with Haoshoku Haki, Luffy explains the existence of the Four Emperors and how he wants to defeat all of them to become the Pirate King like Roger. Hyogoro recognizes Roger's name due to the pirate coming to Wano Country over 20 years ago, and becomes even more surprised when Luffy mentions Kin'emon's name.
Caribou then creeps into the sumo ring, and Raizo appears from within him to explain the situation to Hyogoro. He reveals how his and Kin'emon's group was sent 20 years into the future, and Luffy is unhappy to see Caribou, getting mad at Raizo for accidentally stealing the keys to his handcuffs. Caribou pleads with Luffy to let him serve him, claiming to have changed his ways. Luffy accepts, which secretly scares Caribou even more. Hyogoro is ecstatic to hear the news of the Kozuki Family's return and offers to be of service, and Raizo tells Luffy about the old man's former status. Hyogoro reveals that there are four more sections of the Prisoner Mine that are each as big as the one they are in, and tens of thousands of prisoners are kept there overall. Most of them are imprisoned solely for rebellion against Orochi, with the old yakuza bosses being here among many others, and this place has served as a breeding ground for hatred and rebellion that the government does not see. Luffy plots to destroy the prison and gain all these allies, though Raizo warns it will not be that simple.
In the nearby wastelands, meanwhile, Big Mom and Chopper's group has arrived at Udon. Big Mom complains about her great hunger and drowsiness, and Chopper continues to be worried as Kiku is excited about their arrival.

The Flower Capital is sent into an uproar as the citizens hear news that Kuri is plagued with a forest fire and that Ushimitsu Kozo has been captured. In Orochi Castle, Fukurokuju requests to talk with Orochi about Ushimitsu Kozo, saying his identity is quite important. An angry Orochi bursts through the wall in tears, not in the mood to listen to anything due to mourning over Komurasaki. Fukurokuju states that Kyoshiro made the right decision to kill her, as it protected the shogun's honor, and he proceeds to talk about Ushimitsu Kozo, who is being held in the Rasetsu District's prison. He reveals the thief's true identity, and Orochi is shocked to learn that he is still alive. Orochi declares that they will make an example out of him by broadcasting his execution, and Kyoshiro reveals that the broadcast equipment is already set up for Komurasaki's funeral. Orochi looks forward to making Ushimitsu Kozo the offering to Komurasaki's grave, and prepares to head out to see the event in person.
In the Prisoner Mines, Kaidou contacts Queen to reveal to him that Komurasaki has died, and the recently awoken Queen is utterly distraught to hear the news. Kaidou tells Queen to use the Filming Pond Tanishi to see for himself, and as Queen has that activated, Luffy calls out to him, ready to resume fighting. Queen is shocked to see Luffy and Hyogoro looking much bigger since last night, and in the shadows, Raizo and Caribou note that the two of them were obviously going to stand out after eating that much food. Queen's subordinates wonder if they should tell him that all of his o-shiruko disappeared last night, but decide not to with Queen already highly emotional from Komurasaki's death. The Filming Pond Tanishi is then activated.
At Mt. Atama in Kuri, the Mt. Atama Thieves are unable to put out the massive forest fire and so are forced to flee. One of them catches and subdues one of Holed'em's subordinates, who is pinned for starting the fire, and Shutenmaru goes to beat Holed'em despite such an action being bound to stir Kaidou's wrath. In an abandoned village in Kuri, Inuarashi reports to Kin'emon that Ashura Doji is on his way to Bakura Town, and Kin'emon prepares to head out immediately. He does not mind the scale of the fire so long as it keeps Ashura in the spotlight, as they needed to get him to make a move to aid in their effort of returning him to their cause. In Bakura Town, Holed'em prepares to watch the events in the Flower Capital as he relishes in his mistaken belief that Shutenmaru died in the forest fire.
Meanwhile, Brook enters the house in the Northern Cemetery, and is shocked to see people inside, not noticing Zoro among them at first. When he notices Zoro, he is shocked as Hiyori is laying on his chest. Brook learns who Hiyori is, and she realizes that he is the reason that residents leave offerings in front of the well. Brook then tells them about the upcoming funeral for Komurasaki as well as the impending execution of Ushimitsu Kozo, who is actually Tonoyasu. Zoro and Toko are shocked to hear this, with Toko revealing that he is her father and immediately races off to go rescue him despite Hiyori's pleas. Hiyori goes after her to protect her, causing Zoro to follow them given their struggle to survive the previous day, and Brook accompanies them as well. In the Flower Capital, the distraught citizens weep as Komurasaki's casket is brought down the road, although it is being taken to the Rasetsu District for her to be cremated as a criminal.
In Ebisu Town, the residents watch Tonoyasu's crucifixion from a Filming Pond Tanishi, while Kanjuro and Shinobu finally recognize him as Yasuie, the former daimyo of Hakumai who had served under the Kozuki Family. The Flower Capital citizens gather around Yasuie and plead for his release, and Yasu is happy to see he has not been forgotten. He prepares to apologize for two things, as well as say something to Orochi, before he dies.

Over 25 years ago, Shimotsuki Yasuie commanded his samurai to vigilantly guard Hakumai, which was the lone legal port to the outside world in Wano Country. Kozuki Oden remarked that he is impressed with the samurai, and Yasuie was annoyed that he was still hanging around here and not acting like the son of the shogun. Oden replied that he did not care about his relationship to his father Sukiyaki now that he had been exiled, and that Yasuie would be more likely to inherit the position of shogun than him. Yasuie had none of that and hit Oden, saying that he was the only one who could lead the Kozuki Family in the future and he needed to take Sukiyaki's banishment as a challenge. Oden refused, wanting to set out to sea and escape this isolationist country, and Yasuie continued hitting him as he demanded that Oden become a competent samurai first.
In the present day, the citizens of Wano express their relief at seeing Yasuie alive, but Orochi's forces mock the former daimyo's current state of living and proclaim that he will join Komurasaki in death for stealing from the Flower Capital and leading a rebellion against Orochi. However, Yasuie then reveals that he lied about being Ushimitsu Kozo so his capture could draw everyone's attention, and Orochi's forces are shocked before realizing that they did apprehend him earlier than when Ushimitsu Kozo normally committed robberies. As Drake and Hawkins oversee the execution and the massive turnout that has arrived, a samurai reports to them that the Ebisu Town citizens have invaded the Flower Capital. The citizens race through the front gate and pass by the guards, needing to save Yasu to ensure their continued survival. As Toko's group races from the Northern Cemetery to the capital, Drake tells his men to keep an eye on the rioters, saying Orochi's decision to broadcast the execution may end up backfiring.
Yasuie then addresses the mob gathered around him. He tells them to look around the Flower Capital, saying that its beauty was created by their ancestors and the Kozuki Family, and Orochi has done nothing except taint it during his rule. Orochi, who is being brought to the execution in a palanquin, is enraged to hear this, while the citizens grow worried over Yasu's fate. Yasuie then apologizes to the crowd about the Kozuki Family's message, lying that he created it as a prank. 20 years ago after Oden's death, Orochi approached him and the other three daimyo to give them a chance to serve him. They refused and were defeated by Kaidou, and Yasu escaped and went into hiding; he claims that he had childishly created the message to spare him from the boredom of hiding. As he talks, Shutenmaru and the Mt. Atama Thieves have reached Bakura Town without the Beasts Pirates seeing them, but Shutenmaru holds off his men as he notices Kin'emon and Inuarashi behind him; the two of them are shocked to see Yasuie again.
Yasuie then lies that Orochi arresting everyone who bears the crescent moon symbol on their ankles was nothing more than baseless paranoia, as he claims that the crescent moon is just a popular design from long ago. The guards are appalled to hear this, and wonder what they should do with all the people they imprisoned. Orochi's convoy then reaches Rasetsu Town, and Orochi asks if Yasuie has any last words as he brings out a rifle while standing on top of his palanquin. Yasuie responds by reciting the curse that binds the shogun's heart, and then laughs as he takes pride in his effort to help Momonosuke and the Nine Red Scabbards' plan get back to square one, having given a new meeting place to the Rasetsu Town prisoners, and he looks forward to seeing the Kozuki Family take their revenge from the next life. As the prison guards quietly remark about Orochi's cowardice, the shogun and his forces shoot Yasuie multiple times, and he falls to the ground dead. Toko and the Ebisu Town citizens laugh profusely in agony as they watch him die, and Zoro is appalled to see them laughing, but Hiyori holds him back. She reveals that they have been robbed of the ability to do anything but smile thanks to Kaidou and Orochi bringing the SMILE fruits into the country.

A few decades ago in Hakumai, Yasuie caught several followers of Oden, among them Kin'emon, Kanjuro, Raizo, Inuarashi, Nekomamushi, Shutenmaru, Kawamatsu, and Denjiro, trying to steal money from him to give to Oden. Oden's band of followers awaited their execution, but Yasuie instead decided to give them the money they tried to steal as well as another bag, even though an associate of his said it would cause Hakumai to run out of money. He told them to spend the money on books to learn from, because in order for Oden to take over as shogun, his retainers would need to become the best samurai of Wano Country, as they would one day serve as its top guardians.
In the present day, Kin'emon, Kanjuro, Raizo, Inuarashi, Shutenmaru, and Kawamatsu weep as they watch Yasuie fall dead on the Tanishi broadcasts. The Flower Capital citizens try to force the Ebisu Town citizens out of the area, and wonder why they are laughing hysterically. Hiyori tells Zoro that Orochi and the SMILEs are responsible for stripping them of their sadness, and Zoro is confused about the role of the SMILEs in this. As Hiyori mourns this scene as hell for the Ebisu Town citizens, the approaching Orochi relishes in Yasuie's death and the reaction to it, comparing the scene to heaven. Kanjuro, Shinobu, Sanji, Nami, Usopp, and Franky reach the Flower Capital, and Kanjuro and Shinobu lament their inability to save Yasuie while the Straw Hats are confused by the Ebisu citizens' reactions. In the Prisoner Mines, Queen enjoys the scene, and Luffy wonders about the reason for the citizens laughing; Hyogoro replies that it is a side effect of the SMILE that he has seen in the prison as well. On Onigashima, Kaidou chuckles at Orochi's brutality.
Shinobu then explains the side effects of the SMILEs to her group. Several years ago, Kaidou and Orochi started trading weapons to Caesar Clown and Donquixote Doflamingo in exchange for SMILEs, which Kaidou used to try to make his crew the strongest in the world. However, only one out of every ten people who ate a SMILE received an ability from it. Everyone else simply received the side effects of the fruit, losing the ability to swim as well as the ability to express negative emotions, causing them to only be able to express joy. Among the Beasts Pirates, the Waiters are those who have yet to consume SMILEs, the Gifters are those who have eaten the fruits and successfully gained powers, and the Pleasures are the larger group who have eaten a SMILE and received nothing except its side effects. Kaidou, Doflamingo, and Caesar named the fruit SMILE after its most notable side effect. The defective fruits still contained these side effects after being partially eaten, and so Orochi decided to use them to deal with the people of the leftovers towns, who were wracked with sorrow and grief on a daily basis due to the constant deaths among them. Finding this to be unpleasant, he mixed in the defective SMILEs with the other leftovers that were fed to the leftovers towns, causing these citizens to lose their ability to express sadness and anger.
Hiyori explains it as well to Zoro and Brook, when a commotion starts to stir up as Toko gets onto the execution platform and tries to save her father with some toad oil. Hiyori pleads for her to come back before Orochi spots her, and the Straw Hats are aghast to see her in danger. Orochi sees Toko and aims his rifle at her, intending to kill her for causing Komurasaki to die. He shoots bullets directly aimed for her head, but Zoro and Sanji simultaneously break through the barrier and neutralize the bullets. The citizens are shocked to see the two recently infamous men together, including Drake and Hawkins, and Zoro and Sanji react in surprise as they find themselves side by side for the first time in weeks.

The citizens around Rasetsu Town are shocked to see the criminals Zoro-juurou and Sangoro together, and Zoro and Sanji are annoyed to see the other. Hiyori wonders if Sanji is Zoro's comrade, and X Drake enters his allosaurus hybrid form. Orochi expresses his anger at Zoro and Sanji getting in his way, and tells his samurai to kill them. Zoro hands Toko over to Sanji, and Shinobu tells Usopp and Franky that they need to retrieve Yasuie's body from being displayed on the execution platform. Nami and Robin think about where they should meet up after fleeing the Flower Capital, and to Sanji's shock, Zoro readies an attack against Orochi.
Remembering his first interactions with Yasu, Zoro unleashes spinning air slashes at Orochi, who freezes up in fear. However, Kyoshiro arrives and intercepts the attack with his sword, and as Sanji reprimands Zoro, Drake lunges at him in his full allosaurus form, forcing him to leap out of the way. Daikoku orders the samurai to shoot at Zoro, and he does nothing as Franky steps in and intercepts the bullets before overwhelming the samurai with Strong Right. The Rasetsu prisoners wonder what is happening as Franky takes Yasuie's body and Usopp, Nami, and Robin back him up from a distance. Meanwhile, Kyoshiro orders for Orochi to be taken back to his castle, and intercepts a charging Zoro to prevent him from reaching the shogun.
In the Prisoner Mines in Udon, Luffy cheers on his crewmates as he watched the broadcast of their rebellion. Queen then receives a report that two captured criminals have arrived at the mines, and Babanuki reveals that one of them is Kamazo, who has been left to their whims by Orochi after failing a mission, and the other one is Eustass Kid, whom they unexpectedly encountered on the way back. One of the guards reveals that Kid had rushed toward them, and did not provide any resistance when they shot him. Kid wonders why Kamazo, who is actually his crewmate Killer, is constantly laughing after having beaten up anyone who mocked his laugh and even masked his face to hide it in the past. Luffy is shocked to hear that this is Killer, and Hyogoro notes that the Supernova fell victim to a SMILE.
Kid and Killer are then strapped to chains by their ankles and briefly dunked into a tub of water. Queen then has their heads submerged again and starts the Sumo Inferno back up, saying that they will not be pulled out of the water until Luffy and Hyogoro die. Luffy gets mad at Queen and throws a punch at him, but Queen easily catches the punch and tosses it aside. He derides Luffy for thinking he has a chance to be victorious in this, and his subordinates grow worried at his cranky attitude, wondering if it is because he has not had any o-shiruko today. Luffy proclaims that he will decide where he dies when a sudden loud noise appears outside of the mines. Queen's subordinates reveal that they have lost all communication with the guards outside the gate as Big Mom, craving o-shiruko, reaches the entrance.

Kurozumi Orochi eagerly orders his subordinates to apprehend all of Yasuie's allies and behead them as he is carried away from Rasetsu Town, and Roronoa Zoro continues trying to go after him, but Kyoshiro counters all his strikes and refuses to give up ground. Zoro wonders who Kyoshiro is, and the Orochi Oniwabanshu then arrive on the scene. Fukurokuju confirms Hawkins' report that these enemies are all the Straw Hat Pirates, and orders his ninja to make sure they at least capture just one of them to make them reveal information. One of them shoots bullets from her lute at Zoro, forcing him to quickly dodge. Sanji hands Toko over to Usopp while he takes on X Drake. Drake manages to hit Sanji with his allosaurus tail, sending him crashing into a house, and he recognizes Sanji as O-Soba Mask. He also reveals that he heard Sanji is a Vinsmoke, and Sanji shouts at him to never call him that again.
Meanwhile, Brook assures Hiyori that Toko is safe with their comrades as he once again scares off some of the Oniwabanshu with his Gashadokuro projection. However, Daikoku tells Fujin and Raijin to pursue Hiyori, as he had seen her with Zoro earlier. A short distance away, Trafalgar Law manages to blow his way through the fence and make it to the prison where his crewmates are, but Hawkins confronts him. Law notes that Bepo is missing, and Hawkins replies that they were not foolish enough to keep all their hostages in one place. He then says that Law cannot defeat him as he cuts his own arm, causing Shachi's arm to be cut in the same spot. Hawkins tells Law that he could not defeat him until he had killed his three subordinates. Hiyori screams as Fujin and Raijin attack her, and Sanji instantly locates her. However, Zoro suddenly comes, cuts Raijin, and races off with Hiyori, leaving Sanji aghast.
Just outside Bakura Town, Shutenmaru angrily attacks Kin'emon for framing him for robberies and causing Mt. Atama to be burned down. Inuarashi offers an apology, and Kin'emon reflects that his former comrade is right, as he had never taken the time to consider what he went through for the past 20 years and had only focused on the greater good of the upcoming fight. However, he does point out to Shutenmaru that Yasuie gave them the opportunity for their samurai allies to be freed, and they would likely come to their aid during the raid on the Fire Festival. He asks Shutenmaru again to join them in their fight, and in response, the bandit takes them somewhere to show them something.
In the Prisoner Mines, the Beasts Pirates receive reports that an intruder has broken through all three gates, and all of them are astonished that it is none other than Big Mom. Luffy is stunned as well, but Big Mom pays them no mind as she smells o-shiruko and calls Tama to come eat it with her. Tony Tony Chopper is shocked at the seeming presence of shiruko, and Kiku tells Tama and Momonosuke to stay behind while going with Chopper cautiously to infiltrate the prison. Inside, Queen is angered to hear Big Mom mention o-shiruko, wondering if she came to take his unknowingly nonexistent supply from him. Despite Babanuki's warning, Queen transforms into a brachiosaurus with the Ryu Ryu no Mi, Model: Brachiosaurus and stands against Big Mom. However, this causes Big Mom to grow impatient with him, and she leaps up and slams his head into the ground with monstrous force.

Immediately after slamming his head into the ground, Big Mom picks Queen up by the neck and swings him around, yelling at him to give her his o-shiruko. She then hurls Queen into a wall with monstrous force, and Queen crashes into the contraption holding Kid and Killer in the process, knocking them out of the water. While Luffy asks the duo if they are still alive, Queen's subordinates watch in shock as Queen transforms back into a human while lying in defeat. They then notice that the door of the cell holding Kawamatsu has been broken open, and ask Babanuki what they should do. Babanuki tells them to not provoke Big Mom until they receive orders from Kaidou, but his men reveal that their Smart Tanishis are not working.
In the Executive Tower, Raizo remarks that their plan is going smoothly thanks to the commotion outside and recollects the plan that Caribou hatched. Earlier, Caribou had revealed that due to the Smart Tanishi's weak signal, its transmissions had to go through a Boss Tanishi to transmit to other locations. Thus, they could prevent the Beasts Pirates' communications from reaching out of Udon by taking out the Boss Tanishi, and he knew where it was after having been in the prison for a while. With Caribou having successfully smothered the Boss Tanishi, Raizo sets his sights on freeing Kawamatsu.
Back outside, Big Mom finds Queen's pot of o-shiruko, and is entranced by its fragrance. The Beasts Pirates silently worry over what will happen to them when she discovers that it is empty, and start running away after she opens it. Big Mom falls into a silent depression when she sees the lack of shiruko, and Luffy sympathizes with her by inadvertently thinking out loud, as he would have liked to eat more of it as well. This causes Big Mom to realize he ate it, and she attacks him in a fit of rage. Luffy tries to get her to stop before she knocks him and Hyogoro out of the ring, and he attributes Big Mom not recognizing him to him wearing a kimono. Luffy and Hyogoro are forced to the edge of the ring, with another attack from Big Mom guaranteed to set their collars off. Some of the Beasts Pirates offer to help Big Mom kill the duo if she spares their lives in return, but Big Mom throws a rock at them, angrily saying that she dearly wanted the o-shiruko in order to share it with the Okobore Town citizens. Enraged at Luffy for preventing her from doing this, she attacks him and Hyogoro, sending them flying out of the ring. Intent on not letting Hyogoro die, Luffy manages to rip off their collars in the heat of the moment before they explode. Babanuki and Daifugo are left shocked as Luffy and Hyo land on the ground safely, and Luffy immediately sets off to escape, but Hyo stops him. Saying that Luffy could only progress his power when backed into a corner, he tells the pirate to protect him from Big Mom, putting his life at stake in Luffy's training to advance his Haki.

Luffy recognizes that what he did to remove his and Hyogoro's death collars was the same technique that he saw Silvers Rayleigh use to remove Camie's exploding collar on Sabaody two years ago. However, since he used it in the heat of the moment, he is not sure how to activate it at will. Hyogoro notes that what Luffy just did was superior to what he had been trying to teach him, and so if Luffy could do that, he should be able to protect him from the attacking Big Mom. Luffy attempts to have his Haki flow through his hands, but Big Mom instantly overwhelms him and sends him and Hyogoro crashing into a wall.
Luffy worriedly apologizes to Hyogoro as he pulls him out of the wall, but Hyogoro reveals he used Haki to protect himself just in case. He tells Luffy that there is another step in concentrating and projecting Haki, which is the ability to destroy objects from the inside. This is what Luffy did to destroy their collars, so he is certainly capable of using advanced Haki, he has just not realized how to do it. Luffy and Hyogoro are then separated by Big Mom, who pursues Luffy into the neighboring Prisoner Iron Factory. The Beasts Pirates left in the Mines worriedly wonder how Big Mom can be stopped when Queen suddenly gets up. Having no intention of giving up, Queen tells his subordinates his plan, with the idea that Big Mom in her rampage would eventually circle back around to where they were.
After some time, Queen is proven right as Big Mom chases Luffy back into the Prisoner Mines, and he waits on top of a cliff in his brachiosaurus form. Big Mom sees the o-shiruko bowl left as bait on the ground and stops to look in it, and Queen takes this chance to dive on her, landing headfirst on her with his immense weight. However, Big Mom does not give way from the impact, and the force of the blow causes her to regain her memories and realize what has happened. She then recognizes Queen, and with her aura completely different from before, the Beasts Pirates have no escape from her wrath. However, Big Mom then falls asleep, and Queen immediately orders for her to be bound in pure Seastone chains and injected with their heaviest anesthesia. Queen has most of his subordinates accompany him and Big Mom on a ship heading for Onigashima, leaving Babanuki to lead the small remainder of the crew in restoring order to the prison. As Queen's ship sets sail, the prison gate starts closing, and Tama decides to slip inside along with the unwilling Momonosuke. With communications still cut off, Luffy prepares to take down Babanuki and his forces. When Babanuki thinks out loud that Luffy was now free, Luffy remarks that he had always been free and will now take over the prison.

In the Prisoner Mines, Luffy excitedly takes on the Beasts Pirates rushing to attack him as he works to advance his Busoshoku Haki at will. Kiku asks Chopper about rescuing Big Mom, but he has no intention of going after her and says that getting Luffy is more important. Some pirates ask Babanuki if they should round the prisoners back into their cells, but Babanuki says that it will not be necessary, instead ordering the prisoners to help them subdue Luffy. The prisoners obey his command, and Luffy wonders why they are doing this when he is trying to help free them. They reply that they enjoyed seeing him rebel against the prison authorities, but they had no hope that they could overcome Kaidou and Orochi, having tried and failed to rebel against them 20 years ago and losing everything in the process. Their despair was renewed after watching Yasuie's execution, and none of them believed they would find freedom outside of the prison.
Daifugo shoots a prisoner some distance away, causing his body to burn all over. The vice warden reveals that these are "Excite Bullets", made by Queen, which will cause burning sensations that can be spread by making contact with the skin of someone who is shot by one. Daifugo then prepares to shoot at Luffy's group, saying he can subdue Luffy by shooting any of the prisoners grabbing him. As Luffy wonders how he can get the prisoners on his side, Kawamatsu shouts out from inside his cell, encouraging Luffy to tell the prisoners about their hope. The Beasts Pirates wonder who is talking, and Babanuki reveals that he is one of the Nine Red Scabbards, whom Orochi had ordered to be executed painfully by being fed a poisoned fish every day. The Beasts Pirates rush in to kill Kawamatsu, when Raizo suddenly jumps out of the Executive Tower and glides into the clearing. As he flies by Kawamatsu's cell, he hurls the key to Kawamatsu's handcuffs inside as well as the Scabbard's sword, Soto Muso. After freeing himself of his handcuffs, Kawamatsu asks the pirates around him if they like sumo wrestling.
Kawamatsu then repels the pirates out of his cell with a single attack before charging out and attacking them again, overpowering them with his sword style Kappa-ryu. Ready to re-enter the Kozuki Family's service, Kawamatsu reunites with Raizo and Kiku, and the former is shocked to see the latter here. Kawamatsu throws up all the poisoned fish he ate, and Babanuki orders his subordinates to get into battle formation as Kiku forces the prisoners off of Luffy. Hyogoro then approaches Raizo and Kiku and tells them to show who they really are, saying they need to put their full identities on display in order to win their support. Kiku puts on a mask, and is recognized by the prisoners as Kikunojo much to Luffy and Chopper's shock. Babanuki remarks that this feels very much like what Orochi has been paranoid about, and says that he will need to contact Kaidou, but Kikunojo says that they will silence him and his forces first.

The Beasts Pirates in the Prisoner Mine attack Luffy, Chopper, Hyogoro, Raizo, Kikunojo, and Kawamatsu, but are unable to hit them with any Excite Bullets. However, Daifugo tells them that it does not matter where they shoot, as he instead shoots at the prisoners. Luffy's group easily overwhelms the Beasts Pirates, and Raizo tosses Kid and Killer the ring of keys to hopefully free them from their handcuffs. The guards continue shooting the prisoners with the Excite Bullets, which causes a fever and painful hemorrhaging to spread throughout their body. The prisoners end up transmitting the virus to others through physical contact, and Daifugo reveals that the virus is named Mummy.
Luffy's group finds themselves surrounded by several infected prisoners, who continue going after them on Babanuki's command to avoid being labeled as traitors. The prisoners tell Luffy's group to leave, saying that they have no chance of defeating Kaidou and pointing out the immense suffering caused by one of Queen's viruses alone. They say that they would never have had to go through this if Luffy's group did not rise up. However, Luffy then wraps his arms around the group of infected prisoners, shocking everyone. As Mummy is transmitted to him, Luffy claims that it has no effect at all. He then points out that the prisoners were not living normal lives, but were simply slaves working for kibi dango. He says that even though he is an outsider, he made a promise to Tama to make Wano Country into a prosperous place where no one would grow hungry again. If he did not do this, then Wano would remain in its current condition. Since Oden is dead, Luffy's movement is all the hope that Wano has left. He then tells the prisoners to make up their mind to either join his side or Kaidou's.
Hyogoro is greatly impressed with Luffy's leadership, and to deal with the crowd all at once, Babanuki brings out an Excite Shell, a piece of ammo with 200 times as much virus as an Excite Bullet, and prepares to fire it with his elephant's trunk. Kawamatsu and the Beasts Pirates notice what he is doing, but right as the elephant is about to sneeze, Luffy ties up its trunk, having seen a dangerous future. The elephant then sneezes, engulfing Babanuki in the Excite Shell's explosion. As Babanuki falls to the ground, Luffy tells the prisoners he will leave the rest to them as he points to Daifugo. Daifugo desperately tries bringing up the consequences of going against a warden, but the prisoners disregard that as they are now rebelling. They proceed to overwhelm Daifugo, and with eight days to go before the final battle, Luffy's group has successfully conquered Udon without any outside enemies finding out.

Luffy offers Kid to form an alliance against Kaidou. Kid rejects the offer by stating that he was betrayed by his former allies Basil Hawkins and Scratchmen Apoo, and they rather fight Kaidou by themselves. He also blamed the betrayal of his former allies as the cause of Killer's suffering after eating a faulty SMILE. Kid and Killer free themselves and leave the prison to find their other members.
Meanwhile, Raizo, Kawamatsu, and Hyogoro try to persuade the Udon prisoners to join the alliance and support their cause. However, doubt reigned among the prisoners as they learned that Luffy is a pirate and they are unsure if they can trust him. However, the trio defend Luffy by saying that there are different kinds of pirates in the world and Luffy is one of the better pirates. One of the prisoners also doubted Raizo having traveled 20 years later by saying that "he always looked like an old man".
At one of the prison rooms, Luffy rests while Chopper tries to find a cure for the Mummy virus. He was seen by Tama and Momonosuke. Momonosuke insults and complements Luffy at the same time but Luffy only insulted him in return. He gets offended and intends to attack Luffy but Tama restrains him to prevent further trouble as well as getting himself infected. Tama fails to do so and Luffy throws rocks at Momonosuke and tells him to leave. Momonosuke gets noticed by the prisoners and they immediately kowtowed upon learning that their lord is alive and well. The trio realizes that the prisoners only lacked motivation and proof to fight with them. Kawamatsu temporarily leaves the group as his objective in Udon has been completed and his help would be needed somewhere else.
Kin'emon, Inuarashi, and the Mt. Atama Thieves arrive at a graveyard in Kuri. Ashura Doji shows Kin'emon what happened during the twenty years he was absent. These were the remains of the Kozuki retainers who attacked Onigashima 10 years past. This was in revenge of 10 years of suffering under Kaidou's rule, having taken everything from them. Ashura wept over the loss of his men and wonders why it has to take 20 years. Inuarashi and Kin'emon agreed that they will understand why once the primary objectives of their alliance have been completed. After that, Ashura gathered his men to seek vengeance on Kaidou and his crew on the night of the Fire Festival.
At a forest outside the Flower Capital, Zoro defeats a group of ninjas belonging to the Orochi Oniwabanshu in order to protect Hiyori. Zoro asks Hiyori if they can return to the bridge where Gyukimaru resides to retrieve Shusui. Hiyori says that she can take him there anytime and is worried more about Toko. Zoro replies that Toko would be safe in the other Straw Hats' hands and worries more about his sword since he needs it before the final battle as he feels incomplete without it. Hiyori says that the house is in Oihagi Bridge in Ringo. Afterwards, they talked about avenging Tonoyasu's death with Hiyori wishes to kill Orochi herself.
In the Flower Capital, Hawkins intends to interrogate a restrained Law about the Straw Hats' plans in Wano with Drake accompanying him.

In the Flower Capital, Orochi is angered to hear that his attackers escaped despite the presence of Fukurokuju and the Orochi Oniwabanshu. Fukurokuju apologizes, but reveals that they did successfully capture Law, which he believes will cause the pirate alliance to fight amongst themselves. Fukurokuju then states that their samurai force, the Mimawarigumi, and more ninja are patrolling the streets vigilantly looking for the criminals, and an official puts up wanted posters, saying that anyone caught trying to help them or not trying to capture them would be immediately arrested.
Sanji and Shinobu sit on a rooftop, and Shinobu states that although they would not escape danger by leaving the Flower Capital, they did accomplish their main task here by finding the people with crescent moon symbols on their ankles. Although Yasuie's ploy did not result in them being released from prison, Sanji and Shinobu are still intent on breaking them out at all costs, and unbeknownst to them, the guards believe the prisoners to be innocent and Orochi to be delusional, although they are too afraid to publicly question the shogun. Sanji then notices some people making lanterns from afar, and Shinobu reveals that those are Sky Ships being made for the Fire Festival. Since the Fire Festival mourns those who have died, preparations are going strong due to the recent recognized deaths of Komurasaki and Yasuie.
At the outskirts of the capital, Nami is relieved to see Bepo, Shachi, and Penguin freed from prison, and they claim they escaped through luck. Bepo then gives Nami the Kozuki Family's secret message, and she notices that Yasuie drew two lines on the snake to change the meaning for the prisoners. Nami decides to go tell Kin'emon this, and heads toward Amigasa Village. Bepo then recalls how he and his two crewmates were freed. Hawkins had them released after Law threatened to kill the three of them just to kill Hawkins, and Law was imprisoned in return. Hawkins released Bepo, Shachi, and Penguin's lives from his straw dolls, and Law told the three of them to not tell their allies about him being caught. However, in the present, the Heart Pirates are greatly concerned about their captain and decide to prioritize saving him over following the plan.
In Ebisu Town, Kanjuro takes Yasuie's body to give it a memorial service in Kuri, and he, Nami, and Franky ride off. Meanwhile, Usopp, Robin, and Brook are riding a boat to Kuri when they are stopped at a wharf for inspection. Usopp and Robin avoid recognition by distorting their faces, and the guards desire to let them through quickly due to fearing Brook's presence. As they sail on, Robin takes the sleeping Toko from Brook to give her warmth.
Meanwhile, Ashura Doji takes Kin'emon's group to Kuri's abandoned southwestern port, where he shows them several boats that Kaidou damaged during the first attack on Onigashima. He says that they should hold thousands of fighters, and Kin'emon and Inuarashi are ecstatic as the former plans for Franky to repair them.
On Onigashima, the Beasts Pirates race to make sweets for Big Mom, and frantically rush back and forth as she eats them at a fast rate. King, Queen, and Jack watch her during this, and Queen expresses his anger at King for his lack of thoroughness in attacking the Big Mom Pirates outside Wano. Jack in turn wonders why Queen brought her here, and Queen justifies this by revealing the communications in Udon were cut off. Big Mom then tells King that she will forgive him for attacking her if he joins her crew, as there are three races currently missing from Totto Land's population and he is a member of one of them. King refuses, and Big Mom asks for her chains to be removed, which Queen angrily rejects. However, Kaidou then arrives and orders for Big Mom to be released as he faces his former crewmate for the first time in many years. Kaidou's subordinates try to find a way out of his command, but he affirms what he said and they remove Big Mom's chains. Big Mom then activates Napoleon's sword form as Napoleon refamiliarizes itself with her, and she and Kaidou engage in a clash so powerful it splits the heavens above the island. Everyone else is left in complete shock in terror, with many of them believing they need to flee Onigashima.

Two days after his first encounter with Gyukimaru, Zoro has returned to Oihagi Bridge and overwhelms the warrior monk in his quest to get Shusui back. After forcing Gyukimaru to the ground, Zoro asks why the thief steals the weapons of passersby and why he is so adamant about not giving Shusui off. Gyukimaru forces Zoro off of him and says that Shusui is the one blade he cannot let anyone take, as he believes its theft angered the Sword God and spelled the misfortune that caused Wano to become overrun by enemies. Kawamatsu then suddenly comes in and intercepts Zoro, calling the fight between him and Gyukimaru a farce. Hiyori immediately recognizes Kawamatsu and calls out to him, and Gyukimaru expresses shock at seeing him as well.
At Onigashima, Kaidou and Big Mom continue fighting unabated, having been doing so all night. Kaidou's subordinates get more and more afraid about the condition of the island, and wonder if they should flee. Queen berates them for their cowardice, but then asks if there have been any reports from Udon. Upon hearing that there is still no Tanishi signal, he decides to go and check on it, prompting questions from his subordinates about his hypocrisy. Suddenly, Queen receives a call on his Tanishi from Babanuki, who says that communications have been restored. Queen asks if he needs backup, and Babanuki says that there is no need, as Luffy, Kid, and all the prisoners have been put back in their cells. This disappoints Queen, as he wanted a reason to leave Onigashima. Back in the Prisoner Mines, Babanuki hangs up and is praised by Tama, who has tamed him with her power. Caribou looks forward to surprising the Beasts Pirates during the final battle. The freed prisoners thank Chopper for curing them of the Mummy virus and promise to repay him with their lives if necessary, although Chopper downplays his accomplishment and points them to the rejuvenated Luffy.
Hyogoro is then approached by the four regional yakuza bosses: Omasa, Tsunagoro, Cho, and Yatappe. The bosses are extremely happy to see him again and reverently promise to gather the remaining rebels from Wano's regions. Luffy laughs at their reverence and refers to Hyogoro casually, causing the yakuza bosses to angrily grab him with the intent to mutilate him. Hyogoro immediately tells them to stop, and the bosses head off, telling Luffy to be more careful in the future. Raizo then says that they can report all this to Kin'emon. At Port Itachi in Kuri, Kin'emon is ecstatic when Ashura Doji reveals the blueprints for Kaidou's fortress are in his possession. Kin'emon then receives a call from Raizo, who reveals to him that they have taken over Udon, freed both Luffy and Kawamatsu, and recruited 3,500 soldiers for the battle. However, he does point out that they still have an issue regarding finding weapons for the soldiers, as they are very hard to obtain due to Orochi's prohibition on them. Kin'emon then prepares to go back to Amigasa Village, telling Raizo to gather as much information as possible while he officially sets up a base of operations.
Back on Oihagi Bridge, Hiyori tearfully embraces Kawamatsu, being overjoyed to get the chance to see him again. She confesses that she ran away from him 13 years ago because he always gave the food to her, and she had hoped this would help him survive. Kawamatsu understands her reason, praising it as thoughtful. Suddenly, Gyukimaru notices a group of Beasts Pirates riding toward Oihagi Bridge, but one of them manages to shoot him before he can do anything. The pirates have come to reclaim all the weapons Gyukimaru stole from them, and they decide to kill Zoro's group as well. Zoro and Kawamatsu then draw their swords and take out the pirates in one fell swoop, and Zoro sees Gyukimaru running away again. As he runs, Gyukimaru says that he is so glad to see Kawamatsu alive and well.

13 years ago, Kawamatsu received a note from Hiyori after she had run away from him, thanking him for everything he did and assuring him that she would be fine. Kawamatsu was distraught and ran all over Wano, unsuccessfully trying to find Hiyori. In the present day, Zoro chases after Gyukimaru, who runs into an abandoned town. Zoro struggles to keep up with the monk, but is able to follow his blood trail before noticing something. On Oihagi Bridge, Kawamatsu says that he and Hiyori should go on, and she asks him why he came here.
Kawamatsu replies that after searching for her 13 years ago, he had come here to commit seppuku. Ringo, like Hakumai, was once ruled by the Shimotsuki Family, with Shimotsuki Ushimaru ruling as daimyo with a komagitsune named Onimaru serving as his companion. Ringo has a burial practice known as the Eternal Grave, with the burial sites of the deceased being marked by their swords. Thus, the cemeteries frequently attract grave robbers. As Kawamatsu made his way into Ringo, he saw Onimaru chasing away some Beasts Pirates who were trying to steal the swords. Onimaru then collapsed from his wounds, and Kawamatsu was stunned to see that he had successfully protected the graves five years since Ushimaru died. Kawamatsu then bandaged Onimaru's wounds and gave him food to eat, helping him survive.
Afterwards, Onimaru went back outside to find Kawamatsu taking the swords from the graves, and he quickly became belligerent despite the kappa's pleas, ultimately biting his arm. Kawamatsu shook Onimaru off and revealed that he wished to collect the swords for the final battle against Kaidou, saying it was too early for the swords to rest and that they needed to be safeguarded against grave robbers. Kawamatsu was personally invested in accomplishing this task after failing to take care of Hiyori, but Onimaru only bit him again and refused to release his grip. Kawamatsu then shouted that the komagitsune could rip off his arm if he wished, but he would continue collecting the swords even without the arm. Onimaru released Kawamatsu's arm and licked the blood from his wound before sitting and watching, letting the kappa continue collecting the swords.
One day, Kawamatsu woke up to see Onimaru working to free a sword from a grave, and the komagitsune served as his companion from then on as they took the swords and built an underground room to store them in. At one point, they chased away some real grave robbers, and Kawamatsu disguised himself by wearing a cloth over his face and donning the alias of "Gyukimaru". After doing this for a while, he went into the Flower Capital to gather food and made a blunder, resulting in him being captured. In the present, Hiyori asks if he is here to see Onimaru again, but Kawamatsu does not expect him to be still around after 13 years. They catch up to Zoro, who reveals that Gyukimaru opened up a door before disappearing. Kawamatsu takes them through the door, where they enter an underground chamber filled with hundreds of swords. Kawamatsu contacts Kin'emon to tell him that they will be able to arm their allies, having Kin'emon send some forces to his location. Kawamatsu wonders if Onimaru was able to set this all up, but knows that a human had to have done all this. Back outside, Gyukimaru stands behind a house and transforms into Onimaru before walking away, content.
Meanwhile, Hiyori tells Zoro that he should give Shusui back to Wano. Zoro objects, but she tells him that she can give him a suitable replacement: Enma, a Meito once wielded by Oden which gave Kaidou his lone scar.

In Ringo, Kawamatsu objects to Hiyori's offer for Zoro to receive her sword Enma. Hiyori tells Zoro that her father Oden used two swords in combat, and passed on Enma to her while he gave Ame no Habakiri to Momonosuke. Kawamatsu objects further, as he does not want a sword with such an honorable origin to be given to a man of unknown origin, and Zoro agrees to return Shusui in exchange for Enma, but asks to visit Ryuma's grave, revealing he did battle the samurai; this causes Kawamatsu to think of him as completely delusional.
The next day, with six days remaining until the battle on Onigashima, the samurai in the Rasetsu Town prison have yet to be released. However, Law has managed to subdue Hawkins, cutting him in half at the waist and cutting his hands off while also giving him significant injury. Law told Hawkins to reveal what happened to the pirate alliance between him, Kid, and Apoo. Hawkins said that Apoo had set them up, having been working for Kaidou since before the alliance's formation. Kaidou had attempted to recruit the Supernovas into his crew to strengthen his army, and with a zero percent chance of winning or escaping, Hawkins decided to submit to him. Kid and Killer, on the other hand, chose to fight against the Emperor and did so until they collapsed. Hawkins assumes that Kaidou worked to break their spirits afterwards, while he and Orochi did whatever they wanted to the rest of their crew. Hawkins notes that Law and Luffy managed to get to Wano still on good terms, but wonders if Law has changed his mind. Law says that it is none of Hawkins' concern as he slashes the Supernova and heads out of his cell. Outside of the cell stands the person who enabled Law to escape, and Law says that if him escaping is part of the person's grand plan, he will go along with it.
The next day in the Prisoner Mines, Luffy trains to progress his Busoshoku Haki by attacking a steel wall. Hyogoro tells him to think about his defeat to Kaidou to increase the speed of his progression, and Luffy does so as the prisoners watch in awe as he hits the steel like it is jelly.
In Amigasa Village, Kin'emon contacts the Ship Repair Team in Port Itachi, the Weapons Prep Team in Udon, the Katana Retrieval Team in Ringo, and the Yakuza Rousing Team in Kibi to tell all of them that Yasuie altered the Kozuki Family's secret message by drawing two lines on the Habu snake's stomach. Nami is impressed that everyone understands what the alteration means, and asks Kin'emon about it as she does not know herself. Kin'emon explains that one can understand the alteration if they know the names of every port in Wano, which are all named after animals. By adding lines to the Habu snake, Yasuie gave it legs, thus making it resemble a lizard, the namesake of Port Tokage in Udon. Thus, Port Tokage will now be their meetup spot instead of Port Habu. The group around Kin'emon and Nami, consisting of Zoro, Sanji, Robin, Brook, Momonosuke, Kanjuro, Raizo, Inuarashi, Kikunojo, Kawamatsu, Ashura Doji, Shinobu, and Hitetsu, praises Yasuie's final actions and looks optimistically on their effort to recruit 5000 allies to fight Kaidou, with only Denjiro still missing among the Kozuki retainers. Kin'emon then begins their strategy meeting.
There are two methods of entering Wano: being pulled up the waterfall by the giant carp, or entering the cave behind the waterfall. At the end of the cave is Port Mogura, where people arriving will be pulled up to Hakumai via gondola. The second option is the only safe one, but a person can only get into the cave with Kaidou and Orochi's permission. At the terminus of the gondola in Hakumai, Apoo reports to Kaidou that he has come to attend the Fire Festival banquet, as he is greatly looking forward to watching the annual Golden Kagura. As Apoo and a crewmate walk through Hakumai, they are joined by a massive hulking figure. A nearby child wonders what that is, and another child reveals that it is a Number, saying they will be eaten if it spots them. On Onigashima, King tells Queen that the Numbers have returned for the banquet, which Queen is not pleased about due to their drinking problems.
Kaidou and Big Mom express their anticipation for the Fire Festival as they merrily laugh together, much to Queen's confusion. They then reveal to Queen and King that they have formed a pirate alliance to take over the world, and will resume trying to kill each other after achieving their goal. This revelation is met with extreme shock.

Back when Zoro and Kawamatsu were with Hiyori in Ringo, she told them that despite her worry for Toko, she would not go with them to meet everyone in order to avoid rousing their emotions. To Kawamatsu's shock, she bows to them and encourages them to work with everyone else to protect Wano. In Amigasa Village in the present, Momonosuke and the present members of the Nine Red Scabbards besides Kawamatsu are overjoyed to hear that Hiyori is alive. Momonosuke thanks Zoro for protecting his sister, whom he still remembers as an energetic and physical six-year-old. Sanji is aghast realizing that the woman with Zoro was Hiyori, and tries to appease Momonosuke to try and get with her.
Hitetsu then says that his preparations are complete, and Kikunojo gives him back Nidai Kitetsu which she obtained from Luffy in Udon. He then presents Oden's two blades, Enma and Ame no Habakiri. Momonosuke says he is not yet ready to wield Ame no Habakiri, but Zoro takes Enma. Hitetsu warns him that only Oden has been able to tame the Meito, and tells him to try cutting down a nearby tree. Zoro swings Enma and ends up slicing off the entire cliff face, and his crewmates quickly become worried as the sword draws significant quantities of Busoshoku Haki from his arm. However, Zoro manages to bring the Haki back into his arm. Hitetsu commends him on taming the blade, saying an ordinary swordsman would instantly lose all their energy due to Enma forcing the user to use massive amounts of Busoshoku Haki. He asks Zoro if he wishes to keep the blade, which Zoro affirms.
With three days remaining until the raid on Onigashima, Robin reveals that she found out in her investigation that the Beasts Pirates number around 20,000, while Orochi will have around 10,000 men escorting him. With the Ninja-Pirate-Mink-Samurai Alliance only numbering around 4,000, Kin'emon rules out a direct confrontation, and Ashura Doji says that they are at a disadvantage even with the blueprints to Kaidou's mansion in their possession. In Port Itachi, Franky orders the workers to get enough ships in working order to hold 100,000 people, even though no one expects to have nearly that many people coming. In the Prisoner Mine, Luffy is in Gear 4 and uses Gomu Gomu no King Kong Gun with a normal-sized fist by projecting his Haki from it. The attack completely shatters the block, and Hyogoro says that he is using too much brute strength. Luffy says that that attack was not enough, appalling the people watching him. In the Bamboo Forest by Amigasa Village, Momonosuke tells Zoro while they are training that he was told not to say the word "Sunacchi", and Zoro tells him that he picked it up after hearing the older people in his home village using it.
The next day, Luffy, Chopper, and Tama arrive at Amigasa Village. Meanwhile, the four regional yakuza bosses contact Kin'emon to announce that they have recruited 200 more people. Kin'emon mentions that he has yet to hear from Law, and Shinobu is fine with him not being with them, though Kin'emon disagrees. A ninja reports from Rasetsu Town that there is no chance of freeing the prisoners there, and the prisoners are agonized that they will not be able to help in the raid. With everyone he can contact in position to move, Kin'emon instructs all of them to prepare for the upcoming battle.
The next day, Kin'emon's group heads out, and he bids farewell to Luffy until they reunite tomorrow. As many laborers slave away throughout Wano, rumors spread among them that the Kozuki Family has returned and is secretly planning a raid, although many of them have no hope that this will make a difference. Kin'emon's group, consisting of Momonosuke, Shinobu, and the seven Red Scabbards present, head across the wastelands toward Port Tokage. Nearby, the minks have erected graves for Yasuie and Pedro, and give their respects along with Robin and Toko. Hitetsu goes to check in on Zoro's training, and reveals that he created Sandai Kitetsu. He then says that Zoro is getting used to Enma quickly because it was made by the same swordsmith as Wado Ichimonji. That swordsmith was named Shimotsuki Kozaburo, who left Wano illegally over 50 years ago. Hitetsu is confident that in Zoro's possession, Enma will finally become a Black Blade. Meanwhile, Luffy successfully punches a hole through a tree by projecting his Haki, and in the Flower Capital, Orochi contacts the Prisoner Mine to see if everything is fine. After hearing affirmation, Orochi deems the report in his possession stating otherwise to be false, though does take note that the alliance's meeting place has been changed to Port Tokage and that Hiyori is alive and hiding in the Northern Cemetery. On the day of the Fire Festival, Orochi's procession heads out to Onigashima, and the war that will affect the fate of the entire world has begun as Act 2 of the Wano Country Arc concludes.

The Neptune Family returns to Ryugu Palace after attending the Levely. Shirahoshi thanked Garp for assisting their family over the course of the event. Neptune invites Garp to rest in the palace, and Garp said he will only drink tea and he will leave in a short while. He reminisces on how turbulent the Levely can be, with some kings arguing over different problems that may become explosive that results in physical harm. Neptune agrees, commenting it is a long-running tradition. Garp then cautiously states how he classify the Levely as peaceful or not by the way people do not kill each other, and how the recent one was seemingly different from the others. He requests to the royal family that they should not fear humans for an incident that happened to the Nefertari Family of Arabasta.
The remaining royals are returning to their home countries a week after a heated Levely. Meanwhile a few days before, Morgans and the editorial team of the World Economy News Paper prepare the stories that will appear on their next issue. He seems to be split about the news of an "obituary" or the results of the Levely shall be placed on the main page. Attach gives a check from the World Government to him, but he replies that the news will not be replaced. Attach at this moment turns out to be a facade, revealing himself as a Cipher Pol agent who threatens Morgans. However, Morgans quickly defeats the agent, refusing to back down from any threats because of his pride as a journalist. After the incident, Morgans moves the headquarters of their company to a new safe location, while getting a report that Wapol has information for him.
The recent news leaves the world in awe. In addition to the World Government having failed to cover up some of the Levely's events in the headlines, it is revealed that the Warlord system has been abolished, much to the joy of the civilians and to the worry of some. This was proposed by the kings Riku Doldo III and Nefertari Cobra, who suffered under their rule. On Momoiro Island, the Revolutionary Army is in an uproar over news concerning something that has apparently happened to Sabo. Ivankov is furiously shouting that he refuses to believe it, Koala is on the verge of tears, and even Dragon is visibly shaken, not aided by the fact that they are unable to contact Sabo at the moment. On the way back to Dawn Island, Sterry is also shocked by the fact that Sabo was at Mary Geoise. Finally, in the Goa Kingdom itself, Makino is seen grieving while on Mt. Colubo, the Dadan Family burst into tears after reading the news and assert that it is fake.
In an unrelated note, Doflamingo is seemingly joyed by the news, stating that things are getting interesting. At the same time, Blackbeard orders his crew to set sail, stating they are setting out to claim something before the Marines do.
A few days after at the present time, X Drake contacts Koby through a Den Den Mushi. Drake tells Koby that the status quo in the Wano Country might not last long as Kaidou and Big Mom have formed an alliance, much to Koby's shock. He also tells that there are no reports of a prison break led by Luffy in Udon. Lastly, he says that there is a presence of CP0 in the Flower Capital. He asks Koby of his location, in which the latter replied that he is going to Amazon Lily to capture Boa Hancock.
Koby is not alone in the task of arresting the relieved members of the grouping. Vice Admiral Stainless' fleet confronts Buggy's Delivery. A fleet of Marine ships also arrive in Kuraigana Island to arrest Dracule Mihawk. On an island in the New World, Edward Weevil is surrounded by Marines. Finally, the Kuja Pirates prepare for their confrontation.

The chapter begins at Marine Headquarters. Fleet Admiral Sakazuki is talking with Admiral Fujitora via Den Den Mushi, remarking how pleased the latter must be with the abolition of the Seven Warlords of the Sea system. Sakazuki was against it, but was powerless to do anything in the face of world's royalty. Fujitora retorts that the good far outweighs the bad and how Sakazuki fails to see that. He tells Sakazuki to put his faith in the SSG and how the balance of power in the world will now change dramatically. Sakazuki agrees, and changes the subject to Wano and the Four Emperors, going on about Big Mom and Kaidou's tentative alliance. This startles Fujitora, who calls it Rocks' second coming. Sakazuki tells him not to be so dramatic, saying how this is all real and when it rains, it pours.
Elsewhere inside Marine HQ, Brannew and Sengoku are briefing a group of Marines about the Emperor alliance. Brannew clarifies that Kaidou and Big Mom are planning to form an alliance and have not done so yet. The pair has yet to make a move, but their goals and intentions remain unclear, thus combatting them will be difficult. Information about the Rocks Pirates is still scarce. Sengoku likens the two Emperors as cat and dog, so their alliance is certainly surprising, and he comments how most Marines today don't know who Rocks was. He then goes on to tell the Marines present in the room about Rocks.
The Rocks Pirates, as they were called, formed when a group gathered on the Pirate Island Hachinosu. They were a violent bunch who would kill each other regularly, even on the same ship. Kaidou, Big Mom and Whitebeard were members of this crew, along with many other pirates who made a name for themselves such as "The Golden Lion", "Captain John", "Silver Axe" and "Ochoku". The Marines present are shocked that so many famous pirates are connected and so few people knew. Sengoku explains that one reason is due to the unfriendly relationship among the crew, not many lived to talk about it. Rocks wanted to be the King of the World, and he wielded his crew akin to a terrorist organization. The other reason is that the World Government erased most of the crew's acts from history. Their infamy reached people at the time, however.
Events came to a head 38 years ago, on an island known as God Valley. News of the Rocks Pirates' defeat spread world-wide. On that day, Monkey D. Garp defeated the crew, earning him the title of "Hero of the Marines". The Marines listening to Sengoku talk about how they never knew which of Garp's heroic feats gave him that title. Sengoku adds that Garp tends to keep mum about the whole ordeal aside from the known historical facts. The scene changes briefly to Garp on his ship, ascending from Fish-Man Island, making a vague comment Big Mom and Kaidou's alliance.
The first reason Garp likes to keep quiet about the battle is one that never made it into the public record. Garp had to fight alongside a pirate. The other reason is that Garp fought to protect the Celestial Dragons. The introduction of Celestial Dragons into the story and Garp's secrecy about protecting them surprise and confuse the present Marines. Sengoku explains that Garp's moral code does not allow him to protect Celestial Dragons. It's also the reason he never accepted the rank of Admiral, because he would be directly under their control. The true story of the event known as the "God Valley Incident" is that Garp and Gol D. Roger met there by chance, teamed up, and defeated the Rocks Pirates. This revelation surprises the Marines most of all. Sengoku goes on to say that God Valley is no longer found on any maps. In reality, the entire island disappeared without explanation as if it never existed. Sengoku rephrased his description, saying that an island the World Government wanted to keep secret disappeared, and asked if they still wanted to ask questions. Sengoku caps the story off summarily by saying that once a man named Rocks wanted to be the King of the World. Rocks, who is no longer alive, stepped into some parts of history that he shouldn't have, and as a result little to no information about the Rocks Pirates survives, save for the memories of some of the older Marines. The Marines are stunned to think that there was once a man who commanded three people who would later become Emperors.
Sengoku goes on to talk about how Rocks was Roger's first and possibly greatest enemy. Everyone called him Captain Rocks, but his full name was Rocks D. Xebec, another pirate to bear the initial D. Sengoku ends his story as the Inspector General concludes that Big Mom and Kaidou as they are now far greater threats than they were under Rocks, and their alliance is far more dangerous than the Rocks Pirates. He then turns the floor over to Commodore Brannew as he asks for Kaidou and Big Mom's current bounties. Brannew explains that the members of the recently dissolved Seven Warlords need new bounty figures. He then turns everyone's attention to the Four Emperors.
Blackbeard became an Emperor about a year ago. His attack on Impel Down gave him powerful new subordinates and he is presently the de facto don of the Pirate Island Hachinosu. Boss of the Blackbeard Pirates, Admiral Marshall D. Teach, with a bounty of 2,247,600,000.
The next man became an Emperor about six years ago. He is the youngest of the group and has the trust of those under him. His executives, Lucky Roux, Yasopp, and Benn Beckman, are all famous in their own right. His crew has a high average bounty and Brannew considers this crew the most balanced of the four. Leader of the Red Hair Pirates, Captain "Red Hair" Shanks, with a bounty of 4,048,900,000.
Third on the docket, this pirate allegedly attacked Elbaf while still only a child. She doesn't trust anyone she's not related to. The 85 offspring serving under her created the country of Totto Land. Captain of the Big Mom Pirates, Charlotte Linlin, with a bounty of 4,388,000,000.
Following Big Mom, the next pirate was but an apprentice during his time with the Rocks Pirates. Using only his raw strength, he gained the admiration of many pirates, and in doing so, came to be an Emperor. The Governor-General of the Beasts Pirates, Kaidou "of the Beasts", with a bounty of 4,611,100,000. The Marines are in shock from seeing so many high bounties.
Brannew states that they can no longer rely on the Seven Warlords to keep the Four Emperors in check and whether or not it was a good idea will be decided later by the Special Science Group, or SSG. Brannew then puts up two more wanted posters as a means of comparison. The Captain of the Whitebeard Pirates, Edward Newgate, with a bounty of 5,046,000,000 and the Captain of the Roger Pirates, none other than Pirate King Gol D. Roger, with a bounty of 5,564,800,000. Brannew explains how Roger and Whitebeard have the two highest bounties in history but should an alliance between Kaidou and Big Mom happen, their combined bounties would surpass either Roger or Newgate's alone, and that is exactly what is about to happen in Wano. Before Brannew can continue, he is interrupted by Sakazuki, who enters the briefing room. Sakazuki tells Brannew to leave Wano alone for now as they don't have the resources to deal with two Emperors at once.
He then addresses Sengoku, who has no intention of getting involved but was simply sharing his knowledge and wisdom with the younger generation, understanding relationships is key, and not knowing the past will lead to a dark future. Sengoku then recalls that Roger, Shanks, and Newgate all took a liking to a pirate from Wano. Sakazuki presumes Sengoku means Kozuki Oden, who was a division commander in the Whitebeard Pirates. Sengoku reminds him that Oden was later recruited by Roger to go on his famed last voyage. The chapter ends with Sengoku asking Sakazuki why so many powerful individuals have ties to Wano.

25 years ago, Kozuki Oden expressed his appreciation for being able to join Gol D. Roger on his voyage. Silvers Rayleigh, Shanks, and Buggy offered to help him in his quest to open Wano Country's borders, but Oden replied that he should handle this alone; he was confident that with the help of his retainers, he could become shogun and accomplish his goal.
In the present day, Act 3 of the Wano Country Arc begins. In Port Habu in Hakumai, Orochi boards a ship headed for Onigashima and the Fire Festival, and Fukurokuju says to let people know that Kyoshiro has been placed in charge of the Flower Capital for the time being. Orochi starts drinking immediately upon setting sail, and in the Flower Capital, the citizens begin to party and take advantage of the only day they are allowed alcohol.
While they and Orochi enjoy beautiful weather, Momonosuke and the Nine Red Scabbards come to Port Tokage to find that not only is it storming heavily, but their ships and allies are nowhere in sight. Momonosuke says that they should change the date of their rendezvous, and Kin'emon desperately tries calling their allies on the Tanishi. However, he cannot reach any of them, and his pleas quickly become desperate before Ashura Doji silences him. Ashura notes that the port looks like it was attacked, and as the Scabbards start to lose hope of their allies showing up, Inuarashi finds a boat that looks intact and prepares to sail out to Onigashima alone. On Onigashima, Orochi parties as he thinks about an incident that occurred the previous day.

Two days before the final battle, the alliance members moved to conclude their preparations and head for Port Tokage. After overseeing the completion of the ship restoration in Port Itachi, Franky and Usopp headed to Amigasa Village to reunite with their crew, leaving the ships in the care of the Musketeers and Wano carpenters.
In the Prisoner Mine, Hyogoro oversaw the prisoners collecting all the weapons they could find while Cho acquired the weapons stored in Ringo. Jibuemon talked with some allies about making sure they all moved to Port Tokage discreetly, and they agreed even though Orochi and many of his officials would have already left for Onigashima.
In Amigasa Village, Hitetsu gave the Straw Hats some kabuto armor, and Luffy, Chopper, and Brook were excited to don it. Sanji asks Zoro why he does not want to wear the armor, to which he replies the armor will slow him down. Then, he finally taunts Zoro with his higher bounty causing Zoro to unleash Enma. Nami and Robin talked with Carrot, Wanda, Shishilian, Concelot, and Giovanni about the full moon that would be present during the final battle, and they hoped that the minks could use Sulong and that Nekomamushi and the Guardians would arrive on time. Meanwhile, Luffy looked out toward the ocean, noting that Jinbe had not yet arrived despite Big Mom being here. After finding out what had happened with Jinbe, Zoro assured Luffy that the fish-man would come if he was still alive.
In Ebisu Town, the citizens found some money left by Ushimitsu Kozo, which surprised them as they had not heard of any thefts in the Flower Capital last night.
In Okobore Town, however, the citizens were confronted by Holed'em, who revealed that the Paradise Farm was still being stolen from despite him burning down the Mt. Atama Thieves' hideout. The citizens deduced that the Nine Red Scabbards had likely stolen the food if the reports of their return were accurate, though decided to not say a word about it. Tsuru then came and told Holed'em that she would guide him to the food, as she wanted to help her husband Kin'emon and the Kozuki Family's plan. However, the other citizens stopped her by claiming aloud that they had eaten the stolen food, shocking her and angering Holed'em.
The night before the final battle, three winged Gifters flew to Kuri Beach and discovered the Thousand Sunny still sitting in the cave, and on Orochi's orders they dropped explosives on it to destroy it. Orochi also had the great bridges connecting the regions destroyed, in addition to the alliance's ships in Port Itachi. He wondered aloud about what was going on with the Kozuki Family, being sure that they had returned despite not yet seeing one of them with his own eyes. He was also confident in the reports of their return, and stated that although Yasuie had shaken his subordinates' trust in him, it did not matter because he had all the power and could do whatever he wanted. With the ships and bridges destroyed, he would ensure that none of the Nine Red Scabbards' allies would reach them on the day of the battle, causing them to lose all hope.
In the present, the Nine Red Scabbards work to set sail to Onigashima by themselves, and Momonosuke pleads for them to stop, saying they could invade at a later date. However, Kin'emon responds that they cannot wait, as their takeover of Udon would eventually be exposed and Kaidou would hunt down every single rebel. Okobore Town had already been burned to the ground to cover their tracks. As Shinobu holds Momonosuke back, the Scabbards say that he and Hiyori should live on, but they needed to fight to fulfill Oden's wishes until the bitter end, as they would have been nothing without him. Kin'emon remembers Oden telling them that Wano has been isolationist for centuries because of something heavily related to the Kozuki Family, and that the tides of the world would only shift once the borders were opened. 41 years ago in the Flower Capital, the citizens became outraged and frightened as Oden returned to the city after failing to set sail, and they told him to die as he complained that the country was too cramped.

41 years ago, Wano Country was brimming with vegetation and life. At a tea house on a mountain pass, three men told poster girl Tsuru that they saw a mountain move, and she wonders if they saw a Mountain God. The men then revealed that they had caught a rare white boar, which they could sell to the gang boss Kurokoma for a piece of white gold. Tsuru then heard a noise nearby, and turned and slammed Kin'emon to the ground as he was attempting to steal from her wallet. Kin'emon said that his friends were having money issues, but Tsuru would not have it, saying she would strip him of all his belongings, even his organs, if Kin'emon continued neglecting to pay his debt. The three men headed off, but Kin'emon later caught up to them and beat them up to gain possession of the white boar, which he had overheard them talking about at the tea house. He planned to take the boar to Kurokoma, and stole the men's money and clothes as well.
In the shogun's castle in the Flower Capital, a scribe reported to Kozuki Sukiyaki that Kozuki Oden had failed to set sail for the 38th time, but was still alive. He then recounted the numerous incidents in Oden's life, starting from his infancy when he threw his wet nurse across the room. When he was two, he caught two rabbits with his bare hands, and when he was four, he killed a bear by throwing a boulder at it. By age six, he started spending money in the Red-Light District, and when he was eight, he was getting drunk and starting fights with gamblers. He was nine when the yakuza banned him from entering their casino, and he responded by setting the casino on fire, causing a war to break out. He was captured at age 10 after nearly killing someone and was sentenced to hard labor in the quarry, but he quickly climbed the ranks there until he was in charge of it. The labor did cause his attitude to change, as when he was 14 he attempted to help the Flower Capital citizens during a long drought, but ended up flooding it after diverting a river toward it. A year later, he took a job at a mountain temple, and every night he kidnapped a woman from the Capital to form a harem. Although the women stayed with him of their own free will, their loved ones and many powerful samurai attacked Oden, and even the Hyogoro Family was forced to get involved in the fighting. The scribe reported that Oden, now 18 years old, still caused trouble on a daily basis, and Sukiyaki told him to give Oden a note saying he had been disowned from the Kozuki Family.
Outside, gang members attempted to apprehend Kin'emon, preventing him from taking the white boar to the Kurokoma Family. Hyogoro heard about Kin'emon's presence and advised his men against going after him, as Kin'emon would defeat them. Elsewhere, the orphan Denjiro swindled a store owner by exchanging a small pot for a large one for no extra cost, and Kin'emon then called out to him. In the Flower Capital crematorium, the family of the recently deceased Katsuzo was outraged and distraught to see Oden cooking a pot of oden soup on Katsuzo's burned remains. After consuming his oden and sake, Oden paid respects to Katsuzo before departing.
As he walked down the street, Oden made conversation with some officials who had been bribed to capture him, and he wondered why the fire bell was ringing nonstop. The man at the tower said that this was bigger than a fire, and in a nearby alleyway, Denjiro told Kin'emon that he should not have brought the white boar to the Flower Capital, as Kurokoma likely intended to use it to bring ruin to the Hyogoro Family. The parents of these white boars were known as Mountain Gods, as they were the size of mountains; additionally, they always followed their offspring closely. Now, a Mountain God was attacking the Capital, and Oden, having overheard their discussion, approached them and told them to give him the white boar.

With the Mountain God beginning to tear through the Flower Capital in search of its offspring, Kin'emon desperately attempts to keep the small boar quiet. Oden asks Kin'emon for the boar, though he refuses, as it is worth enough money for him to finally pay off his debts. Denjiro stands in awe of Oden's presence, musing to himself that Oden is the one adult that he respects. Several citizens in the Flower Capital begin to correctly surmise that the Mountain God is attacking due to its child having been abducted, and resolve to search for it. The large creature continues devouring houses and people whole, even separating families. Bongo eventually locates Kin'emon and the boar, and after the two exchange accusations for bringing chaos to the capital, Bongo explains that his friends were eaten for having the boar's scent on their clothes. They had kidnapped O-Tsuru as payback for Kin'emon stealing the boar from them originally, but they were pursued and eaten as they made their way down the mountain....O-Tsuru included. Realizing his culpability in the matter, Kin'emon discards the boar without hesitation and rushes to face the beast head-on. As the Mountain God notices its child's scent on Kin'emon and prepares to attack, the latter reflects on all the trouble he has put O-Tsuru through on his behalf. Demanding her back from the creature, Kin'emon charges and manages to stab the Mountain God through the snout. It ultimately doesn't prove effective, and the beast shakes him off by crashing into some nearby buildings. Now bloodied, Kin'emon defiantly rises to his feet to challenge it again, causing Oden to note that he has guts. Denjiro however warns him to stop, as the Mountain God again crashes him through several buildings. Unable to rise again this time, Kin'emon professes that if O-Tsuru dies because of him, then he'd like to die too.
As the Mountain God prepares to continue its rampage in search for its child, Oden holds the baby boar in the air and calls for its parent's attention. The citizens see this and begin to blame Oden for the original mishap, which again reminds Kin'emon of his responsibility in the day's events. Oden mentions that he was just craving some boar stew, and as the creature approaches, he completely bisects it with Oden Nitoryu: Tougen Shirataki. The citizens look on in complete shock, with Hyogoro being noticeably impressed by Oden's strength. Despite a quarter of the entire capital's population having been engulfed by the creature, there were miraculously no casualties. As citizens begin to reconnect with their loved ones, they appreciate how cool Oden looked defeating the creature, but lament at him causing the trouble to begin with. Kin'emon prepares to announce that the incident was all his fault, but Oden throws a rock and knocks him out, telling him not to do anything stupid.
At this precise moment, a servant gives Oden the news that his father Sukiyaki, has disowned him. Oden takes the news in stride, asserting that the capital simply couldn't contain his greatness as he walks off. An 18-year-old Oden leaves the Flower Capital, stating that he shall make his bed wherever the sun sets. O-Tsuru asks a sobbing Kin'emon what is wrong, who states that he would happily die for a man like Oden. Denjiro agrees and runs off after Oden, causing the two to argue along the way about whose infatuation with the swordsman is greater.
After some time, the group arrives in Hakumai, where they are greeted by an incredibly eager servant. Yasuie is quite unamused to see Oden after hearing of his banishment, and even more disappointed that he's attracted followers. The servant throws his body down over a puddle for Oden's group to walk over him, prompting Oden to call him a creep. Yasuie mentions that this is his new servant, who humbly introduces himself as Orochi.

After spending some time in the Hakumai region with Shimotsuki Yasuie, Kozuki Oden decides to leave out. Yasuie looks forward to dealing with less ruckus, but laments that things will be a lot more boring without Oden around. Oden has heard of a "monster" living in Kuri by the name of Ashura Doji, though Yasuie warns him that the region is considered the "cancer" of Wano. Kuri is said to be a lawless place that even the Shogun can not control, and any criminal who escapes there without the proper strength will only find death awaiting them. This only stokes Oden's excitement further, who decides to take a tour around the country. Oden's room is discovered to be a mess after his departure, though Yasuie declines seeking any compensation for the repairs. When it is also revealed that Yasuie's money has been stolen, Orochi steps forward and claims to have witnessed Oden take it. While the Daimyo's staff quickly believe the young servant, Yasuie himself is suspicious, knowing that Oden would have made more of a spectacle of the matter.
Kin'emon and Denjiro leave Hakumai with Oden, causing him to question the two on just how far they will follow him. He shows visible discomfort when they swear to follow him as far as he'll go, but he nonetheless allows the young men to keep traveling with him. One night during a storm, the two stand guard for Oden outside of a building as they now feel they are his servants. He beckons them inside, berating them for suffering through such conditions on his behalf. They question Oden on just what he's doing, who reveals that he's been inspired to start a journal from what he's heard of voyagers at sea. Oden then proceeds to log several of his adventures across the country.
In Ringo, they encounter two brothers, Izou and Kikunojo, who are poor and dancing to make money. They are the sons of a dancing instructor, but their family had recently been split due to the father being jailed for a crime. The brothers sobbed as they ate some of Oden's food.
In Kibi, they discovered a man who had been persecuted for cutting off the hair of people both dead and live. Known as the "Goblin of Kibi", it is revealed that Kanjuro had been using the hair to make brushes, which he sold for a living. He attempted to do the same with Oden, and after getting beat up, began following the swordsman.
In the forests of Udon, rumors had spread of an infamous bandit that kidnapped women and beat men half to death. It however turned out to be the ninja Raizo, who had quit the Kozuki Clan's Oniwabanshu after a female ninja had turned him down. Raizo had been tracking Oden's group as they moved through the region, and revealed that he had been following Oden because he felt he was at his wit's end living in the shadows.
Elsewhere in the lawless land of Kuri, Ashura Doji hears of Oden's arrival and orders him to be captured. Ashura reveals that he despises the high and mighty, and wants to kill Oden as he has the Shogun's bloodline. Oden and his group (which now includes Kin'emon, Denjiro, Kanjuro, Izou, Kiku, and Raizo) sit around a fire and eat together. Kin'emon wonders where Oden has gone off to, and Raizo says that he went south to relieve himself. When someone notes that it has been a day since this occurred, Raizo brushes it off as another of Oden's whims. However when Denjiro interjects that Kuri is to the south of their current location, the group quickly realizes Oden's true motive. They frantically rush off to Kuri, and discover that the gate has been busted upon their arrival.
Having already entered the depths of Kuri, Oden finds himself face-to-face with a mob of combatants. The outlaws all recognize Oden, who demands they tell their boss that a samurai has arrived. Deeply bothered by Kuri's culture of not allowing those who enter to leave, Oden battles with the outlaws as his followers desperately try to catch up to him. They eventually see a cloud of dust by the mountain and pinpoint the samurai, who is surprised that they have managed to follow him all the way here. Sitting atop a defeated Ashura Doji, Oden apologizes that he's already finished up after fighting for a day. As they stare dumbfounded at his feat of strength, he asks his followers if they still loved him, since he will need their wisdom and strength in ruling over the hooligans of Kuri.
The news that Oden had turned the lawless region of Kuri into a hospitable place spread across Wano quickly. The feat was such that Kozuki Sukiyaki retracted his disownment of Oden, and named him the Daimyo of Kuri. Citizens across the country and Oden's followers rejoiced alike. Never having experienced the joys of peace, Ashura Doji thanks Oden, but this creeps him out. Oden realizes that as a Daimyo he will be assigned vassals, but he doesn't want be given old, haughty nobles. Oden asks his followers to become his samurai, who express their gratification at the offer in tears.
Six years later, and thirty three years before the present day, it is revealed the remnants of the Rocks Pirates began recruiting members for their respective crews.
On Kuri Beach, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi are stranded ashore. They are discovered by a young Kawamatsu, who is unsure just what the creatures are.

Centuries ago, the Mink Tribe had made a vow with the Kozuki Family to help each other in times of need. When they found out about this, a young Inuarashi and Nekomamushi grew very interested in Wano Country and sailed out to see it. When they finally arrived, however, they and Kawamatsu were tied to poles on Kuri Beach by Wano citizens who decided to burn them at the stake. However, Oden then came out of the nearby ocean with a giant fish to use in making that night's oden soup. When he saw his subjects tormenting the kappa and two minks, he immediately beat them up and reprimanded them for mistreating those who look different. However, to the persecuted trio's shock, he then left without going to free them.
Inuarashi, Nekomamushi, and Kawamatsu were eventually freed and followed Oden back to his residence, where he gave them some oden to eat. Oden recognized Inuarashi and Nekomamushi as members of the Mink Tribe that his father told him about, but wondered what Kawamatsu was. Kawamatsu revealed that he was a fish-man, and he and his mother washed ashore on Wano after their ship sank. The residents persecuted them due to their race and fatally injured his mother by throwing stones, and she told him to hide from persecution by going as a kappa. Oden bid the trio farewell, looking forward to meeting more unique people like them when he set out to sea. However, the trio begged to stay with him.
Oden later talked with Denjiro about their group increasing, saying they were all strong but he was now running low on funds; Denjiro reprimanded Oden for giving another loan to Orochi. Oden's retainers then went to Hakumai to try and steal money from Yasuie, but were caught. To their surprise, however, Yasuie gave them the money they tried to steal as well as an additional amount. He told them to use this money to dress properly, learn manners, and increase their knowledge, saying that they needed to become the best samurai in the country to properly serve Oden when he became the shogun. The retainers obliged to Yasuie's commands, and three years later, it was rumored that they and Oden would be coming to the Flower Capital. The Capital citizens were cautious, believing them to be hoodlums. However, they were surprised as the retainers formed an orderly and dignified procession around Oden, which was so professional it resembled a shogun's procession. Some onlookers were so awestruck that they dropped to their knees. Oden reunited with his father Sukiyaki, and Sukiyaki was glad that his son had become a fine man. Oden thanked him for making him one, surprising Sukiyaki further. Oden had come to see his father because he heard he had fallen ill, but was relieved to see Sukiyaki brimming with energy. However, this would end up being the last time he ever saw his father.
That same year, the Moby Dick washed ashore on Port Itachi, and the Whitebeard Pirates were trapped on Wano for a week until they could repair their ship. They lost all of their supplies due to the cargo hold flooding, so a small group prepared to go into Wano to gather supplies. At the same time, Oden's retainers were put in a panic upon finding out that Oden had run off to Port Itachi after hearing of a pirate ship being spotted there. Whitebeard noticed that Oden was running toward them, and engaged in a powerful clash with the samurai. Oden introduced himself to Whitebeard, saying that he wanted to join his crew.

After clashing with Whitebeard, Oden and his retainers ate oden with the Whitebeard Pirates. Oden asked to join the pirate crew, although his retainers advised against it. Whitebeard replied that Oden did not seem like the kind of person to follow someone else, saying that this was an issue in his old crew and advising Oden to set sail on his own. Oden revealed that he had tried many times, but had no sailing ability. Kin'emon makes an agreement with Whitebeard to not let Oden go with him, as he was concerned about Oden committing the great crime of leaving the country. Meanwhile, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi talked with Marco, and they were shocked as he told them that there are much more than 20,000,000 islands in the world.
Two weeks later, Izou asked Oden where he was going as he headed out of Kuri Castle at night, and Oden said that he was going to relieve himself. Meanwhile, the Whitebeard Pirates sailed away covertly in order to avoid Oden, as Whitebeard did not want to be implicated in any supposed kidnapping. However, a chain then wrapped around the Moby Dick's mast, and Oden, having suspected that this would happen, held on as he was pulled by the ship. Izou, who had suspected Oden in turn, then rushed up to Oden and jumped on him, intent on getting him back to Wano. Marco prepared to unwrap the chain, but Whitebeard ordered him to leave it be and pull Izou up to the Moby Dick.
In Wano, Oden's retainers panicked as they could not find him, Izou, Inuarashi, or Nekomamushi, and ordered for the entire country to be searched. As Oden was left holding the chain and being subjected to the perils of the ocean, Izou pleaded with Whitebeard to pull Oden up. Whitebeard would not let Oden join him so easily, but offered him a deal. If he could hold on to the chain for three days, he could join the crew. Oden immediately accepted this offer, and successfully held on for almost three days as he faced obstacles like storms, waves, carnivorous fish, and ice. Marco and the other crew members started taking a liking to Oden and his resiliency, and cheered him on while Izou said he would never forgive Whitebeard for treating Oden like this.
On a certain island, a gang of men assured a woman named Amatsuki Toki that they would take her to Wano like she had asked, but she had realized that they were human traffickers. She held them at bay with her katana as she planned to escape by traveling into the future, when suddenly a massively swollen Oden walked onto the shore, having come after hearing Toki cry for help. The gang mistook him for a sea demon and fled in fear, and on the Moby Dick, the Whitebeard Pirates were disappointed that Oden had let go of the chain.
The next day, Oden woke up with exuberant energy despite his wounds, and decided to start his adventure here. He thanked Toki for tending to him, and she thanked him in kind for saving her. Having noticed Oden mentioning Wano, she told him that she wanted to go there and wondered if he could take her there, which to her surprise disgusted him. Suddenly, they were confronted again by the gang, who had brought their captain Karma to capture the two of them. Oden quickly rose to confront Karma, but the latter was suddenly defeated by Whitebeard, who decided to let him join his crew after seeing him give up on his ambitions to help Toki. Oden was welcomed aboard by Whitebeard's crew, and discovered in shock that Inuarashi and Nekomamushi had stowed away as well. Whitebeard let Toki come aboard as well, and Oden's group participated in many adventures with the crew that showed Oden just how big the world is. One day, Toki told the crew that she was 26, but had been born 800 years ago. Meanwhile, Shanks and Buggy read about the addition of Oden to the Whitebeard Pirates, and Gol D. Roger was intrigued at the thought of a samurai escaping from Wano, expressing a desire to meet Oden.

As the Moby Dick sailed the New World, Oden and Toki studied a crude map of the world. Oden asked where Toki was born, and she did not know, but wanted to go to Wano Country because her parents were from there. Oden replied that they may not be able to get back there, but she was fine with it as long as she was with him. One day, the Whitebeard Pirates fled from a Marine battalion, and Oden wanted to fight them. Whitebeard said it would not be in their best interest, revealing that the Marines had control over the entire world. Oden was surprised to hear that, and Whitebeard told him that, in a way, Wano was still free.
Two years after Oden and Toki joined the Whitebeard Pirates, Toki gave birth to their son, whom Oden named Kozuki Momonosuke. Izou advised that they return to Wano for Momonosuke's safety since Oden now had a bounty on his head, but Oden and Toki assured him that they would be fine. As this happened, Nekomamushi read the newspaper and noted that it never reported on events in Wano, wanting to know how their comrades were. Some time later, Whitebeard decided to split his growing crew into divisions, and he appointed Oden as the leader of the second division, which Oden was not enthused by. The Whitebeard Pirates continued exploring new islands and taking in new people, including an orphan named Teach. The more Oden saw during this voyage, the more he wanted to continue adventuring.
Back on Wano, the four daimyo went to the Flower Capital to gather around a critically ill Sukiyaki. Sukiyaki decreed that Oden was to succeed him as shogun, but he would appoint an acting regent to rule while Oden was away. For that position he chose Orochi, who he believed was like a little brother to Oden. Yasuie was surprised to see Orochi there, as well as to hear of him having that kind of relationship with Oden. Orochi graciously accepted Sukiyaki's bestowment, promising to redeem the Kurozumi Family from his grandfather's treachery.
However, over 13 years before this, Orochi had been approached by an old woman who foresaw that he would become shogun. She asked if he knew what had happened to his grandfather, and Orochi stated that he was executed for committing treason. The old woman laughed this off, saying that attempting to gain power was not a crime. She revealed that in his grandfather's time, the Kozuki Family did not have an heir to the shogunate, leaving the leaders of the daimyo families including the Kurozumi Family as the top choices to succeed the shogun. Orochi's grandfather worked to make himself the front runner by poisoning the other daimyo, and their deaths grieved the shogun and drove him closer to death. However, the shogun managed to unexpectedly father an heir, Sukiyaki. Orochi's grandfather's plot was eventually exposed and he was sentenced to commit seppuku, with his family losing their power and wealth and living in squalor. After hearing this story, Orochi was entranced by the idea that he could have become shogun and blamed Sukiyaki for preventing this. The old woman then revealed that she could change her appearance with the Mane Mane no Mi and presented Orochi with the Hebi Hebi no Mi, Model: Yamata no Orochi, saying she would give him the power to become shogun if he followed her instructions. Orochi agreed, and the woman commanded him to gather up gold and start manufacturing weapons in order to gain powerful allies.
Orochi first went to Hakumai, where Yasuie agreed to let him work for him. Orochi eventually disappeared, taking all the gold in Yasuie's safe with him. He then went to Kuri, where he asked Oden to lend him money many times. Despite his retainers warning him against it, Oden always obliged. Later, Orochi went with Oden to the shogun's castle, where Oden requested that Orochi be given a job there, saying he was like his little brother. However, Oden was actually the old woman in disguise. In the current time, after he had been declared Sukiyaki's temporary successor, Orochi laughed with the shogun, whom the old woman was posing as.
During the fourth year of Oden's voyage, the Whitebeard Pirates noticed the sea creatures fleeing in panic from an island, and they talked about checking it out as Oden and Toki tried to calm the crying Momonosuke and Hiyori. The crew docked at the island, and found even the land animals running away. On the other side of the island, the Roger Pirates had brutally beaten a group of Marines when Buggy alerted them that the Whitebeard Pirates had arrived. Roger decided to go and confront them, as it may be the final time he would get to encounter Whitebeard.

26 years ago, Roger sensed Oden drawing near him, and Oden raced toward the Roger Pirates despite his crewmates warning him not to. Oden overwhelmed a few of Roger's subordinates, and Silvers Rayleigh and Scopper Gaban prepared to take him on together. However, Roger stopped them as he charged toward Oden, saying that the two of them would get hurt, although they believed he just wanted to fight Oden by himself. With one slash of his sword, Roger slightly injured Oden and sent him flying into a faraway tree. Oden quickly recovered and tried to get back to Roger, but Whitebeard then came and engaged in a monstrous clash with the pirate, which unleashed enough force to blow back everything on the island as well as the Moby Dick. As the two powerful pirates clashed, their crews charged toward each other to fight and pillage each other, and the battle lasted for three days and three nights.
Afterwards, however, the fighting died down and turned into a gift exchange. Marshall D. Teach examined Shanks and Buggy, and Buggy told Shanks that he heard that Teach had never slept in his life, including during the ceasefire the last couple of nights. Meanwhile, Roger talked with Whitebeard and Oden, and presented a transcript of a Poneglyph, which Oden confirmed that he could read. Roger revealed that 13 years ago, his crew reached Lodestar Island, the final island in the New World accessible by Log Pose. However, the crew knew that there was one last island, and Roger had figured out that he needed the information on the Poneglyphs to reach it. He stated that it was his greatest ambition to reach this last island and become the greatest pirate in the world, and his proclamation stunned Oden. Roger then humbly asked Whitebeard to let him borrow Oden for one year in order to decipher the Road Poneglyphs, but Whitebeard angrily refused. However, Oden decided that he wanted to go with Roger and so asked Whitebeard to oblige, which he did reluctantly. Oden bid farewell to Izou, Inuarashi, and Nekomamushi, and the Roger Pirates left behind their treasure and food as repayment for taking Oden, though Whitebeard told his subordinates to give the food back so Oden would not starve.
As the Roger Pirates sailed away, Roger and Rayleigh met Momonosuke and Hiyori. The crew then discovered stowaways, and Oden was shocked to see that Inuarashi and Nekomamushi had followed him. The Roger Pirates were not keen to accept Oden as a comrade, but Oden managed to start getting along with them very quickly. Crocus told Roger that he had a year left to live, and Roger decided to make the most of it. The crew sailed up the Knock Up Stream to Skypiea, and they climbed Giant Jack to find the Shandorian Golden Belfry Bell. Soon afterward, Roger found the Poneglyph there by hearing the voices inside it, and told Oden to write a message on it that he had come.

The Roger Pirates made it out of Skypiea safely and came to Water 7. There, Oden, Inuarashi, and Nekomamushi revealed that there was a red Poneglyph in both of their countries, and Roger was annoyed that they did not tell him earlier. Having stolen Big Mom's Road Poneglyph and strongly suspecting where the final one might be, Roger grew excited at the likelihood of finding all four Road Poneglyphs. The crew then met with Tom, and Oden talked to Franky, asking if the young orphan would like to come with them. Franky refused, not wanting to be abandoned by pirates again.
The crew sailed to multiple other destinations as they sang Binks' Sake to pass the time, and at one point came across Tequila Wolf. After passing by the Sabaody Archipelago they traveled underwater to Fish-Man Island, and Roger and Oden both heard noises around them. They were then stopped by Neptune and his guards and taken to the island. Neptune told Roger that he had heard a prophecy that the gates of Fish-Man Island would be destroyed, and suspected Roger would be the one to do it. Right then, Neptune's men reported to him that a Sea King attacked the gates and that there was a hole in the bubble wall. Neptune ordered the bubble to be sealed and bemoaned that the prophecy came true regardless of their efforts, and the Roger Pirates yelled at him for accusing them.
Then, a 3-year-old Shyarly stated that the Sea Kings are restless because they are waiting for the Mermaid Princess to be born. This surprised everyone, including Neptune because he was not married yet. Neptune then took the Roger Pirates to the Road Poneglyph as well as the Poneglyph containing Joy Boy's letter of apology, but they were surprised to not find the Ancient Weapon Poseidon there as Skypiea's Poneglyph had said. However, Neptune revealed that Shyarly recently predicted that a mermaid who could talk to Sea Kings would soon be born. Thus, he believed that his future daughter would be Poseidon. Roger asked Shyarly when the Mermaid Princess would be born, and she replied that it would be 10 years. Rayleigh assured Neptune that they were not after the weapon, but rather after the weapon creator's treasure.
The Roger Pirates later departed Fish-Man Island and continued adventuring in the New World. However, as they were drawing close to Wano, Toki came down with a fever and collapsed. Crocus stated that she could not continue sailing in that state, and ordered for her to disembark on Wano like she had originally wanted. Inuarashi, Nekomamushi, and Oden decided to stay behind on Wano with Toki, but Toki told Oden to fulfill his promise and finish his adventure. Kin'emon, Kanjuro, Raizo, Kawamatsu, and Kikunojo greeted Oden's family in Kuri and begged Oden to come back and rule over Wano, but Toki silenced them as Oden decided to continue going with Roger. As he headed back to the shore, Oden elected not to look back at his country, which was now dotted with factories, as he knew he could not leave it again if he did. After transcribing the Poneglyphs, the Roger Pirates quickly left Wano.
Later, the Roger Pirates made it to Zou, and delivered a letter to Duke Hitsugisukan from Inuarashi and Nekomamushi to let him know they were alive and well. They proceeded to find the final Road Poneglyph in the whale tree, and afterwards, Pedro begged Roger to let him come with him, but Roger said that the young mink's time had not yet come. With the transcripts of all four Road Poneglyphs, the Roger Pirates charted the final island, but as they drew close to it, Buggy came down with a fever and he and Shanks stayed behind, with the latter saying they would get there on their own ship in the future. The Roger Pirates proceeded to reach the final island and conquered the Grand Line, with Roger becoming the Pirate King. Oden wrote of this experience, recounting that they had discovered the truths about the Void Century, the meaning of D., and the Ancient Weapons, and he learned that Wano had once been connected to the outside world. However, when Roger found Joy Boy's treasure, he and the crew reacted with hearty laughter. Roger wished that he had lived in the same era as Joy Boy, saying that his story was a funny one. Because of this, he decided to name this island "Laugh Tale".

After returning from Laugh Tale, Shanks and Buggy are reunited with the rest of Roger Pirates. Shanks asked something about Roger's final voyage and cried after hearing Roger's answer. Roger and co. then learned that the world is on a stir after the birth of the Pirate King, "Gold Roger". Roger is annoyed that the World Government is hiding his true name, Gol D. Roger, but considering everything they learned in Laugh Tale, he understands the reason for this conspiracy. The world at large referred to everything that Roger gained as the "One Piece".
Some time after that, Roger gathered all of his crewmates to show them his gratitude and tell them that the Roger Pirates are disbanded. A flashback during the crew's travel to Fish-Man Island is then shown, where both Roger and Oden heard a discussion between two Sea Kings about the birth of their queen who will be born 10 years from now and will need another 15 years to grow. Roger asked Shyarly about the birth of the Mermaid Princess and learned that she will be born in 10 years. Roger predicts that someone will be born that surpasses them, as they're too early at finding the One Piece. He said to Rayleigh that his child will find One Piece, but the first mate pointed out that Roger doesn't have a child which Roger responded that he will eventually have one. Roger orders the crew to sail to someplace where the Marines aren't waiting, saying he will be the first one to leave the Oro Jackson.
Roger intends to meet Edward Newgate for the last time before he dies and asks Oden about Izou. Oden said that Izou is already very comfortable on Whitebeard's ship and asks Roger to pass on a message to Izou to take care of Whitebeard for him. After reaching an island, Roger said something to Rayleigh and then he finally stepped off the ship with a bundle of medicine from Crocus, as his disease was in its final stages. The crew bid him farewell in a waterfall of tears, despite Oden claiming in his journals that not a single tear was shed.
Their next destination is Wano Country, where the crew dropped off Oden. Oden said that he will open the borders of his country before the day that Joy Boy appears. The crew bid their farewell to Oden, again with a rain of tears, despite Oden claiming that they parted with a smile.
Oden finally reunites with his family and his retainers and is surprised to see the warm welcome he receives from the citizens of Kuri, expecting criticism instead. His retainers explain how Toki helped the citizens and she and their children are the most popular people in the whole country and that people don't talk about Oden's past actions for which he thanks Toki.
Oden then tells Kikunojo about Izou, which he already knows of. Oden asks about the whereabouts of Ashura and Denjiro and learns that Ashura is keeping the yakuza and bandits in Kuri under control while Denjiro is going around Wano borrowing money.
The Scabbards then tell Oden about all that happened in Wano during his absence including his father's death and Orochi's atrocities on the citizens as well as his alliance with Kaidou. Toki tries to stop them from speaking. However, upon Oden's insistence, Kin'emon explains that while he and some of his fellow retainers went to the Flower Capital to confront Orochi, the Beasts Pirates attacked Oden Castle and tried to kill Momonosuke, but the attackers were driven away by Kawamatsu and Inuarashi. However, Toki got struck by the initial arrow and received a permanent scar on her leg. Oden thanks Toki and angrily rushes out of Kuri with his swords despite everyone's pleas.
The citizens of the Flower Capital are happy to see Oden back to take over as the shogun. Oden defeats Orochi's guards and finally prepares to kill him.

Despite recalling Toki's warning of a potential enemy counterattack, an enraged Oden prepares to finally cut down Orochi as he cowers in fear. However a barrier suddenly appears that protects the Shogun from the killing blow, much to Oden's confusion. After more failed attempts to attack Orochi and understand the barrier, Oden yells at Orochi to come out. An elderly man who has been observing and playing the Biwa - Kurozumi Semimaru, assures Orochi that he has nothing to worry about, as he is being protected by the "Barrier Barrier Arts". Semimaru tells Oden that his strength means nothing in this instance, which is then confirmed by Kurozumi Higurashi. Higurashi further taunts Oden about his time as a pirate, and how must have experienced Devil Fruits at one point. Orochi becomes brazen after realizing that Oden can't hurt him, and assures the samurai that if his rule were a problem that could be solved by anger and violence, then the Daimyos would have already dealt with him. Outside, supporters excited for Oden's return begin to gather and cheer on his ascent to the seat of Shogun, as the rightful heir of the Kozuki Clan. Oden reveals he had heard of his father assigning Orochi as his proxy, though only until his return, and demands Orochi give up the title. Orochi however reveals that the order never actually came from his father as Higurashi demonstrates her Mane Mane no Mi abilities by transforming into Sukiyaki. Orochi grows more emboldened as he unravels how this deception extended to Wano as a whole and not just the Daimyos, so he truly is under no obligation to cede his authority to Oden. The infuriates Oden even further, demanding to know what actually happened to his father. As the excited crowd outside continued to cheer for the return of the Kozuki Clan to power, poison arrows suddenly pierced the crowd. Two victims immediately began coughing up blood, and lost their sight. As the citizens flee into the safety of their homes, Kaidou appears above the Flower Capital. From a crack in the ceiling, Shinobu overhears the conversation between Oden and Orochi.
After a few hours, Oden is suddenly seen stripped down to his loincloth, dancing like a fool and begging for money throughout the Flower Capital. Kaidou and Orochi's underlings all laugh at him, as well as Orochi, Semimaru, and Higurashi. Oden had served as the people of Wano's final beacon of hope for freedom from a cruel tyrant, but their hopes quickly turned to disappointment and anger after seeing him like this. On a weekly basis Oden appeared in the Flower Capital outside of the castle to dance and beg for money, much to the disdain of the townspeople. Knowing that there was something he wasn't telling them, his retainers attempted to draw out the truth. However Oden coldly rejected their inquiries, simply stating that it was his job to dance and ask for money. Word of Oden's antics in the capital eventually reached Kuri as well, resulting in him being openly ridiculed everywhere he went. Children threw things at him, parents warned their children to be nothing like him, and fellow samurai criticized him for choosing to be Orochi's lapdog rather than committing seppuku.
After a year of this (24 years before the present), Oden received a newspaper that Roger had been executed. With the world abuzz about Roger's exploits and the allure of the One Piece, a great new age of piracy had begun. Oden repeatedly laughed and cried as he ran up and down Kuri Beach, praising Roger for the life he lived.
After two years had passed since Oden returned, a war between the Beasts Pirates and Gecko Moria's forces broke out in Ringo. Ryuma's grave was ransacked during this time as well. Oden continued to dance during this period, and any associates of his were considered fools. This included his family, which causes Oden to ask Toki if she wants to divorce him. She denies, wondering if he was attempting to upset her. His retainers appear unbothered by it, with Kawamatsu, Nekomamushi, and Kiku laughing that they've been familiar with his naked dancing for some time. Yasuie ridicules him as well, though on the same level that he did before Oden was even a Daimyo. Oden eventually goes to visit Hyogoro, though is insulted by one of his guards when he arrives. Hyogoro's wife immediately reprimands the guard for this, as she and her husband have tea with Oden. The Yakuza boss reveals that Orochi has been rather insistent in trying to get him to work for him, which prompts Oden to warn him to stay out of danger. His wife remarks on how Oden's dancing has gotten a lot better, which the samurai playfully denies.
Three more years go by of Oden dancing in the capital, and after the fifth year since Oden's return to Wano, Orochi visits the region of Kuri. He states that he would like to build a number of weapon factories in Kuri, and wants Oden's help, as he presses his sandal into a bowing Oden's face. Oden begins to asks about something related to ships and Kaidou that might prevent this, but when Orochi responds that he has no clue what he is talking about, Oden grows visibly disturbed. Orochi states that Wano will be a weapons producer, and due to not being able to control Hyogoro, he handed him over to Kaidou. He lays out how Hyogoro's wife wouldn't stop clinging to him, and how they shot her dead on the spot. He then proceeds to make a cruel joke about thinking that a Yakuza's wife would be easier to control. It is revealed that "Hyogoro The Flower" had been taken prisoner, and that when his followers attempted to fight back, a total of sixteen were killed. Oden begins uncontrollably sobbing at this, as the suspicion held by his family and retainers that he'd been shouldering a heavy burden all this time is finally confirmed. Much to the delight of his vassals, Oden announces that the time has finally come to strike down Kaidou.
At sunset, the citizens murmur amongst themselves as they watch Oden and his nine retainers begin to march on Kaidou. The bright red sun in the background appeared to shine on them like a blaze, which extended to their katanas. Due to this, and their fierce loyalty, they became known from that day forward as the "Nine Red Scabbards".

As Kozuki Oden and the Nine Red Scabbards march on Kaidou, Shimotsuki Yasuie is shown to be hastily on the move as well. Oden and the scabbards are shocked to discover Kaidou waiting on them and fully prepared for battle, as he was planning on attacking Kaidou as he got drunk on Onigashima Island. Kaidou reveals that he has a spy in Oden castle, and with his new mansion having just been built, he did not want it used as a battleground. As Oden removes his robe and prepares for battle, he realizes that Kaidou and Orochi have been feeding him all lies for the past five years. Kaidou confirms this, revealing that due to having lower numbers back then, he sensed they would have been disadvantaged after Oden's return had he teamed up with Hyogoro and the nation's samurai. He further chastises Oden for choosing the peaceful option to save lives, remarking that Roger and Whitebeard also had soft spots for civilians despite their fearsome reputations as pirates. Kaidou finishes by mocking Oden for his dancing - claiming that he has none of the dignity of his predecessors, to which Oden retorts that he stands by his decision.
Oden effortlessly charges through the first wave of Kaidou's forces, with the rest of the scabbards backing him up into battle. The opposing forces are taken aback by how strong samurai actually are, but nonetheless feel confident in their superior numbers. As the battle begins in earnest, Yasuie arrives at Oden castle and reveals that Oden has sent him a message that his family would be in danger. He warns Toki that they need to be prepared for the worst, as if Oden loses this battle, then the entire country is lost as well.
On the battlefield, a Beast Pirate takes aim at Oden with his rifle but is struck down with a kunai knife from an unknown assailant. Spotting someone moving through the trees above, Oden asks who did it, to which Shinobu reveals herself. She asks to join him in battle, and Oden recognizes her from her youth in serving his father as Shogun. She states that she stayed at the castle hoping to eventually serve the Kozuki Clan and Oden once again, but the Oniwabanshu eventually switched their allegiance over to Orochi. She is saddened when Oden doesn't blame her for losing faith in a "fool of a lord", but nonetheless reaffirms her desire to help the scabbards in battle. With Shinobu joining the fight, it became eleven samurai against one thousand pirates. Despite this, the battle lasted much longer than expected, as Oden proved stronger than the enemy could have ever fathomed. Kaidou unleashes a massive fire blast, but Oden recovers from this and manages to slice his neck with Oden Nitoryu: Tougen Totsuka. The blow sends Kaidou crashing to the ground, much to the disbelief of his subordinates. As Oden moves in for the finishing blow, he suddenly hears Momonosuke call out to him, which distracts him as he looks over to see his son being held captive by a Beast Pirate. Taking advantage of the opening, Kaidou reverts to his human form and smashes Oden across the face with his mace, incapacitating him. "Momonosuke" reveals himself to actually be Kurozumi Higurashi using her Mane Mane abilities, and the distraction leads to Ashura Doji being stabbed in the back as the rest of the scabbards are overwhelmed.
The fighting was so intense that it caused wildfires in Udon's forests that did not subside until it rained five days later. Oden and the nine scabbards were ultimately imprisoned in the Flower Capital, Shinobu having been released after Oden claimed to have no connection to her. She is pensive as she walks through the streets of the capital, listening to the cold reactions of the townspeople to Oden's defeat. She stops as the sentence for Oden and his retainers is officially announced. Momonosuke and Hiyori inquire about their father's return, and Toki doesn't give a direct answer. Tsuru is seen musing over an origami crane, while Yasuie sits in the rain on the steps of his home. It is announced that in three days time, Oden and his nine retainers will be boiled to death in the public square of the capital.

In Oden Castle in Kuri, Kozuki Toki and her children, Momonosuke and Hiyori, dine as a servant tested Momonosuke's meal for poison. Momonosuke questions why his life is targeted, and Toki explains that it is because he is the heir to the Kozuki Family. As the food is cleared for the family, Momonosuke asks his mother about his father's execution, before beginning to tear up.
In the Flower Capital, the execution of Kozuki Oden and the Nine Red Scabbards is about to commence, as a pot of boiling oil is set. As the citizens rush to the site, Oden is walking towards the pot while being watched by Kurozumi Orochi and Kaidou as the citizens comment on Oden's crime. Oden stops and turns to ask Kaidou for a chance to be saved. A guard tries to hurry Oden, but slips and falls into the pot, and is immediately burned. Oden offers for the ten of them to enter the pot for a set amount of time, and those who survive are to be set free. Sure that the possibility of surviving is nonexistent, Kaidou grants Oden's request, and has a clock set for one hour.
As the onlookers watch intensely, Oden steps into the boiling pot and immediately screams in pain. As the Scabbards rush forward to join their master, Oden orders them to stand on a large wooden platform, which he uses to hold them over his head, saving his men from the torture.
Orochi complains about the Scabbards not standing in the oil, but Kaidou enjoys the show and says they are in the pot as agreed. After a minute has passed, the spectators are amazed at Oden's endurance. As four minutes have passed, the citizens start to complain about how long the execution takes, causing Shinobu to lash out at them, calling them fools.
Shinobu then reveals the truth about Oden's attack on Orochi five years ago. As he was protected behind Kurozumi Semimaru's barrier, Orochi revealed that he went after the shogunate as revenge against all of Wano Country's citizens for persecuting and hunting down the Kurozumi Family after his grandfather's acts of treason. As part of his revenge, Orochi kidnapped many citizens and held them in his castle. As Oden tried to attack once more, Kaidou stepped in to battle him, until Orochi offered him a choice: If Oden continued to fight them, more lives would be lost, but if Oden would humiliate himself by performing a weekly naked dance, 100 people would be spared.
Oden agreed to the deal, and Orochi and Kaidou promised to leave Wano in five years. Oden also went to different regions to check if Orochi was true to his words. Shinobu finishes her story, as the citizens are shocked at the actions of the savior they called a fool.

As the citizens are surprised by Shinobu revealing the truth behind Oden's actions, she is threatened by Fukurokuju and the Orochi Oniwabanshu for speaking against the shogun. Shinobu confronts her former leader with the rise of the Kozuki Family, but he dismisses her words. Meanwhile, the citizens beg for Orochi to stop the execution, but they are shot with arrows in response.
The crowd then realizes both Orochi and Oden's actions, but discovers too late that they are surrounded by Orochi's men, as words about Oden's bravery spread out. Oden then talks to his retainers about a figure from 800 years ago that Wano Country should be prepared to follow. He then states that he will die today, much to the distress of Kikunojo, and reveals his wish to open Wano to the rest of the world.
News continued to spread throughout Wano, to its further regions, as the temperature of the boiling oil kept rising. The citizens cheered for Oden, encouraging him to withstand the torture, and offering the apologies for their harsh words and their ignorance. Despite the situation and their past, Oden forgave and thanked them all, appreciating their support.
Oden then reveals his wish once more, now to the rest of Wano, revealing it was the Kozuki who closed off Wano, in order to protect it from harm by an unknown force. He then continues to say that Wano and the entire world is waiting for a figure to come after an 800 years span. When that time comes, Wano, as Oden emphasizes, has to welcome and work with them. He then requests his scabbards to open Wano's border for this to happen. As Denjiro starts to comment, he is stopped by Raizo, who speaks on behalf of the Scabbards, saying they would make Oden's dream their own.
As the hour was about to pass, and Oden remained standing, Orochi began to worry, and the clock and the citizens counted down as the hour was done. As the citizens and Scabbards celebrated, it was short-lived, as a firing squad assembled around the pot, and Orochi reveals that he changed the sentence a minute prior and prepares to kill the entire group. As a citizen tries to object and is shot down, Oden throws his men far away from the execution site, freeing them. Kin'emon tells his fellow Scabbards to run towards Kuri. Shinobu is also able to escape, and as the Scabbards reminisce about their savior under fire, Kaidou aims a gun at Oden, still in the boiling pot.
The pirate comments on Oden's heroism and apologizes about Higurashi's acts in their last fight, before revealing he had her killed. Oden commends him for his honor, and recites his name phrase "I am Oden, and I was born..." but is shot and his body sinks into the sizzling oil, leaving the sorrowful citizens to finish in his honor: "To boil!"
Back in Kuri, in Oden Castle, a servant tells Kozuki Toki the news and she reads a letter left to her by Oden before he left to face Kaidou. In the letter, Oden gives Toki instruction in case he fails to bring Kaidou down. He tells her that 20 years from then, a war is likely to break out and a power capable of bringing Kaidou down will come to the New World, and he asks her to use her abilities. Toki then remembers her visiting Oden while he was imprisoned. He gave her his swords to pass them on to their children. Toki tears up the letter, and with tears in her eyes, she promises to follow Oden's words.

As the Roger Pirates were leaving Skypiea, Kozuki Oden lifted his son above his head, allowing him to see the horizon, and told him that this is just a small part of the vast world outside Wano Country. During their travels, Oden started teaching Momonosuke various things, much to the surprise of the rest of the crew regarding the subjects he is teaching his young boy. After Oden returned from his travels, Oden spent time with his family, told his retainers about Zou, and listened to his daughter music.
As the Scabbards ran from the Beasts Pirates, Shinobu brought the samurai their weapons, allowing them to cut through the enemy. Shinobu then asked if she could became one of the family retainers, to which Kin'emon replied that none of them asked to become one, so it is up to her to decide, which she tearfully accepted. At the back of the group, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi started to argue, blaming the other for being Kaidou's spy, which ended with them being caught by one of the Numbers. Denjiro and Ashura Doji stayed back to help them, while the rest head forward to Kuri.
At Oden Castle, The Beasts Pirates surrounded the place, as a fire was set below it. Inside, Kozuki Toki held her children as the pirate broke in. After knocking her out, Kaidou held Momonosuke by the throat on the roof, planning to kill him to end the Kozuki lineage. Momonosuke replied that he will succeed his father, as a great warrior. Kaidou then tossed Momonosuke inside the burning castle as he flowed away. The Scabbards then crushed in, and Toki called them forward to instruct them about the plan.
After Kin'emon group was sent away, and Kawamatsu escaped with Hiyori, Toki rode to Bakura Town, to deliver her prophecy, as she recalled her life with Oden, before collapsing from her wounds. Fearful of the prophecy, Orochi could not stop shivering. Meanwhile, Ashura, Kawamatsu, and Denjiro prepare themselves for the 20 years to come.
Sometime later, Denjiro's grief and anger, transformed him, making his appearance unrecognizable. Denjiro then headed to the Flower Capital, where he introduced himself as "Kyoshiro", and gathered new followers. With his new reputation, Kyoshiro met with Orochi, and began serving him as the Yakuza boss, taking Hyogoro's position. At the same time, the citizens of the capital began noticing Kyoshiro tired appearance, calling him "Dozing", unbeknownst to them that the reason for this was Denjiro spent his nights stealing money as the "Ushimitsu Kozo".
Thirteen years ago, after Hiyori left Kawamatsu, she was found and brought to Kyoshiro, who recognized her and brought her in. After identifying himself, Denjiro swore to protect Hiyori in Kawamatsu place, and trained her to become "Komurasaki", hiding until the day of the battle foretold by Toki.

After a time in which Hiyori gave Denjiro money she acquired while working as Komurasaki, for him to give to the poor, he warned her about her actions, and asked her to place blood bags beneath her clothes. He explained that Orochi have developed feelings for her, and he wants to prepare her to when they would fake her death in order to escape Orochi's eyes.
A few months prior to the current time, as Kin'emon's group were brought to the present, Orochi had a meeting with Kaidou when he received the report of the group's arrival. As Orochi sent his men to watch the shores for their departure, Kaidou expressed his desire to capture them alive for questioning. Orochi then praised his spy, and revealed to Kaidou the spy's history and how they met.
The spy's parents were part of a theater group, being killed before his eyes, due to their connection to the Kurozumi Family. Devastated, the boy wished to die, but was approached by Orochi, Semimaru, and Higurashi, the latter revealed they disposed of his parents' killers for revenge. The boy then agreed to follow Orochi, was given a Devil Fruit, and ordered to pretend to be loyal to the Kozuki Family to the death while Orochi planned his revenge.
Orochi then claimed that the spy would steal funds from Oden and gave it to Orochi, whenever he came to borrow money, and that that riches was the reason he and Kaidou are now working together. Orochi then claimed the spy was so determined to die while playing his role, even during Oden's execution, revealing him to be one of the Nine Red Scabbards.
Back in the present, the Scabbards set sail on their boat, and left Momonosuke in the care of Shinobu. Momonosuke bagged them to came back from their suicidal quest, but Kin'emon, despite the 4,200 men he gathered failed to arrived, still had hopes in succeeding due to their small number.
On the boat, the Scabbards began to wonder how their plans were foiled, and realized the spy may be one of them. Kin'emon stated that by this point it does not matter who the spy is, to which Kikunojo disagreed and Kanjuro speaks up, wanting to clear everything.
Kanjuro then revealed himself to be the spy, to the rest of the Scabbards' shock and disbelief. Questioning this reveal, Kanjuro claimed he had no ill will towards them, he was just loyal to Orochi, revealing he is a member of the Kurozumi Family. Kanjuro proceed to tell them how he revealed their plot to Orochi, as three ships with the Beasts Pirates on board appear in their path.
The pirates are quite surprised to see Orochi was correct on the Scabbards' survival and came to pick up Kanjuro, and while he was distracted with their arrival, Kin'emon beheaded him. Kanjuro however continued his monologue, revealing that the reason he is confessing now is Orochi gave him order to bring Momonosuke to Onigashima, and Kanjuro is revealed to be back on shore, holding Momonosuke, as his drawing fade from the boat.
Suddenly, the Beasts Pirates ships are attacked as the Thousand Sunny emerges from the high waves. At the same time, the Scabbards boat is lifted from the water by the Polar Tang, and a second ship is attacked on the other side by the Victoria Punk. To the Scabbards shock, the Straw Hat, Heart, and Kid Pirates prepare to take on the Beasts Pirates on a sea battle fitting pirates.

Although the arrival of the Straw Hat Pirates, Heart Pirates, and Kid Pirates was unexpected, the Beasts Pirates are still confident as they reveal how they prevented the rest of the Kozuki Family's allies from getting to Tokage Port as well as that they had formed an alliance with the Big Mom Pirates. The rookie Pirates are shocked to hear that the two Emperors have decided to ally with one another.
However, Luffy, Law, and Kid then simultaneously attack and destroy one of their ships.
Soon Kyoshiro and his family arrives on his ship. The Beasts Pirates believe he is here to aid them in battle and beg him to sink the enemy ships and he proceeds to attack one of the Beast Pirates ships by cutting it in half. Kyoshiro then addresses the Samurai, as Zoro recognizes him from the town.
Ashura Doji believes Kyoshiro might make a bad enemy. However, to the shock of everyone, Kyoshiro then tells the Samurai that his family will aid them in battle.
Kyoshiro speaks to Kin'emon about the Mountain God incident, in which the Capital was nearly destroyed. This shocks Kin'emon, as only one person was aware of this before he realizes who Kyoshiro is and asks if he is Denjiro. Cutting off his pompadour, Kyoshiro reveals his true identity as Denjiro, as his allies are shocked by his new appearance.
Denjiro then reveals that Yasuie's altered message actually instructed the Kozuki allies to meet at the wharf by Habu Port. Thus, their allies had been able to reach the wharf before Orochi destroyed the bridges, and Denjiro had freed the Rasetsu Town prisoners after Orochi had left him in charge of the Flower Capital. As he reveals this, the alliance, now numbering 5400, arrives at Tokage Port on a massive fleet.
Infuriated that his plans were foiled, Kanjuro curses Kin'emon. Denjiro then commends his friend for fooling the enemy, as Kin'emon takes it in stride, while he internally notes that he had actually misunderstood the message himself.

As the Samurai congratulate Kin'emon's ingenuity, the Scabbards (save for Denjiro) are suspicious and pester him for the truth. He shrugs off this by preparing for a fight with his possible death, as his allies assures him that he won't fall alone.
Kanjuro decides to retreat and take Momonosuke to Orochi, as Kawamatsu dives into the water to return to the docks. However, Kanjuro holds him back with his brush before he conjures a crane and escapes on its back, claiming that he would find Hiyori and dispose of her, now that he knows she still lives. Kawamatsu is infuriated at this, as is Kin'emon about Kanjuro using terrible drawings for them in their time together.
On the Sunny, the Straw Hats determine that Kanjuro was the spy and decide to hinder him. Sanji prepares to pursue them through his Sky Walk but Kanjuro creates and shoots out a cloud of ink. With this technique, which Kanjuro calls Ukiyo Yudachi Ezu, a shower of ink rains down on the alliance, striking their allies and the ships. Kanjuro then mocks Oden and Toki's legacy as well as Momonosuke's cowardice. Through tears, Momonosuke tells his allies to continue the fight, while he escapes on his own but internally doubts it.
Hearing this, Luffy brings on how Momonosuke is crying (with the Samurai being angered by his audacity) but Luffy promises to save him no matter what. Momonosuke is touched before Kanjuro flies them away to Onigashima. The battle on the seas continue, with the Scabbards regrouping with Shinobu and Denjiro on the Polar Tang. Law is annoyed by them using his ship, as they thank him in spite of his protests.
The Beasts Pirates battleship begins sinking rebel ships with long-range cannons, as the Straw Hats decide to advance on it. Everyone on the battlefield realize the disadvantage, although Kid is not concerned. Soon the battleship is sunk, as a voice is heard introducing himself as the newest recruit of the Straw Hat Pirates. It is shown to be none other than Jinbe. Law is shocked by Jinbe's presence while Kid is shocked to hear that the former Warlord of the Sea has joined Luffy's crew.
Having reintroduced himself, Jinbe tells Luffy that he kept his word of returning alive to join the raid on Onigashima, with the Straw Hats happy he made it.

The Straw Hats embrace Jinbe as he reveals he was tending to the injured Sun Pirates and then there was a farewell party that caused him to be late. Usopp expresses amazement that a former member of the Seven Warlords is now their crewmate and Robin says it is heartening. Nami and Chopper tell Franky that Jinbe is an amazing helmsman and the cyborg expresses joy that someone can draw out the Thousand Sunny's true potential. Jinbe asks a question and Franky finishes by asking if he wants a drink. Most of the crew agree while Sanji asks where the alcohol is supposed to come from, and Zoro says he can sense it. Kin'emon yells to the Straw Hats that he wants to coordinate with them once they make it into the island, but they don't listen and Law tells Kin'emon to forget it because it will be a waste of time.
Shishilian jumps onto the Polar Tang and says he will listen. He says to Inuarashi that because he is a member of the Nine Red Scabbards, he should fight with them and he can lead the Minks, which Inuarashi agrees too. Hyogoro speaks up and says that he will lead the samurai so the Scabbards can fight unhindered. With all that said, Kin'emon goes over his plan: He explains the layout of Onigashima and the front gate, and how inside the giant skull of the mountain is Kaidou's castle. Thanks to the blueprints, they will aim for the rear entrance and split their forces in two, going left and right, to meet up at the rear entrance and ambush Kaidou while he's drunk. Denjiro, believing this plan was the one meant to deceive Kanjuro, asks Kin'emon what his real plan is, leaving the Scabbard captain stumped while Raizo wonders how smart Denjiro really thinks Kin'emon is.
Law jumps in and says that if they assume the enemy knows they are coming, their priority targets are the samurai, Luffy, Eustass Kid, and himself, and no matter how planned out their strategy is, there will always be two idiots who won't follow and charge at the enemy head on. He decides they should use them as decoys while their troops will split up on the mountain paths, but he also adds they are decoys too. Hyogoro is surprised by this and asks where the Scabbards will go, and he says by sea using his submarine, and that he will use his powers to warp them to the rear entrance after avoiding the whirlpools. Kin'emon thanks Law for his consideration but he feels he should stay back and lead their men. Denjiro says he will go by the mountain paths too because both troops need a commander. Ashura agrees to this so they can save their energy for their fight with Kaidou. Kin'emon says they will proceed as planned now and Denjiro praises him for the cautiousness, while Law realizes the Straw Hats are gone.
After hearing an explosion at the front gate, Denjiro realizes he forgot to tell them about the guards stationed there during the Fire Festival, and if they know about the raid, it will be bad. The Scabbards panic at what will happen to the Straw Hats, but are left dumbfounded when they take out the guards with no issue while Usopp, Nami, and Chopper watch from afar. Luffy yells to Kin'emon that they took out the guys at the gate and he tells the troops to make their way to the island. With alcohol somehow in their possession, Luffy prepares to throw a party to celebrate Jinbe's arrival but immediately puts it on hold for after Kaidou, Orochi, and Big Mom are defeated.
Kid yells to Luffy that he won't let anyone else take down Kaidou, because he needs to avenge Killer, who had dawned his mask again. The rest of the Kid Pirates agree, and even laugh the same way as Killer to preserve his feelings. Unwilling to let them get ahead, Luffy tells his crew to catch up to them.
At Onigashima, the Beasts Pirates are shown celebrating and Orochi tries to get close to a geisha. Queen yells for the chefs to bring out oshiruko but his subordinates say they are bringing it to Big Mom, to which he yells he doesn't care. Kaidou yells that he wants his son to show up and his subordinates reply they will find him. He is then informed that the Tobiroppo have arrived and he decides to introduce them to Big Mom, where he learns she is changing into a kimono. The Tobiroppo are seen making their entrance.

Inside the Polar Tang, Law proceeds to take the Nine Red Scabbards to the rear entrance while the others make their way to Onigashima from the front, with Kin'emon and Denjiro leading the samurai. Denjiro says they should take caution in case they are attacked and Kin'emon asks if he is underestimating all of them. Denjiro replies that if they fail, the past 20 years would have been in vain, but Kin'emon says they will ensure this all ends soon. As they all reach the entrance, Kin'emon sees the enemy partying behind windows and, realizing they aren't expecting their attack, wonders if Kanjuro delivered his report. Nevertheless, he declares they should attack now. Sanji says Kaidou's mansion is under Onigashima and they should be careful if they are spotted.
Usopp notices some lookouts, who, albeit sloshed, see the ships and he takes them out using Midori Boshi: Nemuri So to knock them out. Jinbe says he understands a majority of the plan, but if they entered with such a large amount of ships in an open area, they will alert the enemy. However, the Straw Hats are surprised when they see the ships the samurai came on begin to sink. Luffy asks what is happening and Kin'emon replies that the samurai will not need them to return. This worries Usopp and Chopper regarding the Thousand Sunny and Jinbe says he will hide the ship while they land on the island. As Brook comments on the determination of the samurai, Kin'emon yells that they can't falter, because whether they live or die, at least they had the strength to stand up against Kaidou.
Chopper then notices several Beasts Pirates appearing across the bridge, but Robin points out at the end of the bridge the samurai are all donning Beasts Pirate outfits. Kid, Killer and their crew are surprised that they are wearing these outfits as well. Kin'emon reveals it is thanks to his powers everyone is looking like a Beasts Pirate and reminds them that they are still outnumbered and they all should make good use of the camouflage given. He also says they will revert to their previous clothes as soon as they remove their costumes or the outfits are destroyed, so they should avoid as much confrontation as possible until they reach the castle.
Inside Onigashima, the Beasts Pirates continue celebrating as Queen dances around and asks if he should look skinny. He gives a shout out to the Waiters, Pleasures, Gifters, and the Shinuchi. He then gives a shout out to the Tobiroppo, but they don't respond to him so he continues on with the Numbers, Oniwabanshu, and Big Mom's children.
One of the Tobiroppo, Ulti, says Queen would be better off dead because he called them jokesters when they didn't respond to his call. Page One tells her to think about fashion instead and the two argue. Who's-Who asks who would replace Queen if he died. Black Maria asks X Drake if it would be him but he refuses. Sasaki says he would be thankful if he did because that would apply for Page One as well, which irritates him. Ulti yells at Sasaki and tells him to stop screwing around or she'll kill him herself, and Page One tells her to shut up herself. Who's-Who tells the two of them to be quiet and Black Maria says she likes that Ulti never backs down when challenged. Drake asks why all six of them have been called together and Sasaki says it was an important demand from Kaidou, though he believes the outcome is easy to see. Ulti asks if this is a family matter and if Kaidou is stupid, much to the shock of the other five who tells her to shut up.

Currently, Orochi is at a state of peace, because thanks to the information Kanjuro had been supplying him, he was able to coordinate the Red Scabbard's movements and take action to prevent their attack on him, which would finally give him some peace at night. Little did he actually know, was that the raid on Onigashima had already begun. As planned, Kin'emon and Denjiro were leading the Eastern and Southern troops respectively around the mountain while Law would bring the other Scabbards to the rear by sea. As for Kanjuro, who had tied up Momonosuke, he reveals that this is his first time coming to Onigashima, so he never thought it would be so complex for him to navigate and therefore, he has yet to give his report to Orochi. Furthermore, he is still seen as an enemy to the Beasts Pirates, as he had attacked some who had seen him. As Kanjuro wondered how he was going to deliver his report, Momonosuke notices a dagger on the ground.
Thanks to the disguises given, the Beasts Pirates are still unaware of the attack that has started. Franky notices that everyone had left but they would catch up in no time. He brings out his Battle Franky's as Jinbe states he remembers the vehicles from Fish-Man Island, though Franky says they are new models. He decides to ride Kurosai FR-U IV while giving Brachio Tank V to Chopper to command, much to his delight. Nami expresses relief that they can use it to advance safely and Carrot tells Chopper how cool he is for commanding the tank. Franky asks where Luffy went, and Jinbe tells him that when Kid ran off on his own, Luffy wanted to stop them because they didn't know about their plan. This causes Usopp, Chopper, Sanji, and Nami to yell at him that Luffy will definitely get spotted. Jinbe adds that Zoro ran off after Luffy so he would make sure he wouldn't get spotted, but this gets the four worried that he will get lost.
Sanji says they should leave the two of them to their own devices and asks Nami if he can ride with her to the battlefield, but she along with Chopper and Usopp tell him the tank is full, as Carrot and Shinobu were inside as well. Sanji asks Usopp if the inside is paradise for him, but Usopp retorts by saying if Sanji was fit to drive the artillery he could join, but he highly doubts it. Franky, on the other hand, offers Robin a ride, which she accepts, only for Brook to take the seat which irritates Franky, though the two of them drive off anyway, with Franky telling Chopper they will meet at the back of the island to park the vehicles. Sanji offers Robin a seat next to him on the tank, but she declines as it seemed dusty to her, so she decides to walk there alongside Jinbe. Jinbe notes how lively the crew is, and that while others would hold their breath in situations like this, those that take the situation lightly will become crucial factors. Robin comments on his words of wisdom and Jinbe says he wants to contribute as much importance as he can for the battle. From afar though, someone is watching them.
Inside Kaidou's castle, the Tobiroppo meet with Kaidou, with Ulti speaking to him happily, which irritates Page One. Kaidou offers them a drink but Sasaki turns it down, rather preferring to drink with him rather than underlings. Kaidou tells them they will meet in the venue shortly because he wants them to meet Big Mom, but it will have to be later because she is currently changing. He apologizes for keeping them all waiting before confessing he never summoned them at all. Who's-Who asks who did, and King comes in, revealing it was him. Who's-Who asks what he wants to say to them, and King says if they knew he was the one who called them, then he and Sasaki would have ignored him, which the two don't deny. King continues by saying that the two of them used to be pirate captains themselves, and have been trying to get a spot as an All-Star. They admit that is true and King tells them to re-evaluate their strength. Kaidou tells them to calm down and asks King why he used his name to summon them. King admits he heard about his problem and that the Tobiroppo will be needed, and Kaidou confirms. He asks one of his Shinuchi: Bao Huang, to announce the schedule. Bao Huang drops down from the ceiling and explains that Queen is hosting the Golden Kagura music on stage, the All-Stars and Fukurokuju were having a toast, and after that Kaidou and Orochi would give a speech. She then reveals the Big Mom Pirate's ship will arrive before the two Emperors announce the beginning of the biggest pirate alliance in the world. She concludes her reading with the reveal that Kaidou will make a really important announcement. Ulti is surprised by this because it is unlike him to make such an announcement unless it was super important. Kaidou confirms it but says if he revealed it now, it would bring confusion.
Kaidou then tells the Tobiroppo that their job is to find his idiot son Yamato who disappeared today. Black Maria says that is a difficult task and that the important announcement must be connected to Yamato, which Kaidou confirms. Ulti yells that this is a family issue so it shouldn't concern the group. Who's-Who asks what will happen should they bring him back safely, and Kaidou answers by telling them that they will have the right to fight an All-Star. He asks Jack and King if that is a problem and they deny, though Who's-Who is left grinning madly.
Outside the castle, Luffy continues to look for Kid, worried that because he knows nothing about Kozuki Oden, he will mess everything up. He asks a drunken Beasts Pirate if he has seen Kid, but he doesn't recognize the name, also wondering if he has seen Luffy somewhere before. Luffy notices the food, but before he can eat it, he gets a pot of red bean soup poured on him, which he notices. The pirates complain that too much was made, so they were sending it back. One says it would go good with sake, while another insists on kicking it away because it is too sweet. They decide to give it to the people in Okobore Town while laughing at the thought of them licking it off the ground because the beggars should be happy. Luffy, however, is left enraged at the spilled food, as it reminded him of Tama and how happy she was when she ate some on her birthday.

Luffy continues to watch as the Beasts Pirates mock the oshiruko after they spilled it, and unleashes a Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gun on the Pirates while angrily asking why they get to be surrounded by so much food when Tama cannot even get a bite to eat herself. The commotion Luffy causes is noticed by several people, including Queen and Eustass Kid. As Kid ponders what Luffy is doing, he decides to leave him to his devices so he can get to the banquet hall easily. All of a sudden, he sees a tower get cut in half by Roronoa Zoro, who heard the noise and ran over to see what was going on. Zoro calls Luffy out for ruining their plans by starting a commotion this early on (with Kid retorting he is causing one himself). Luffy explains to Zoro that they spilled a pot of oshiruko, which reminds Zoro too of Tama and he agrees to help him cut them down. Kid, on the other hand, does not understand why the two of them are so sensitive about oshiruko. As the Beasts Pirates observe Luffy and Zoro continuing to argue about giving themselves away, Scratchmen Apoo immediately recognizes them and wonders why Luffy is on Onigashima when he thought he was in Udon. The Beasts Pirates charge at Luffy and Zoro as they now seemed suspicious and the two of them make a run for it.
Apoo contacts Queen and informs him that Luffy and Zoro were on Onigashima. Though Queen thinks back to Babanuki's report that 'everything is fine', he announces to his subordinates that he plans on eliminating a member of the Tobiroppo, which will leave a seat open for the taking. Several members of the Beasts Pirates get excited at the thought of joining the group. Luffy and Zoro continue to fight several Gifters in order to reach Kaidou's castle, but Luffy is attacked by Apoo's Tatakau Music. Zoro recognizes Apoo as Kid's former ally and Luffy questions how Apoo was able to hit him. He uses it again and cuts Zoro across his chest, which confuses Zoro as he did not see anything cut him. Apoo then unleashes an explosion on Luffy which knocks him out, as Queen says that this is supposed to be a good show. Zoro grabs Luffy and runs with him away, as he says to himself that they cannot be taking damage this early and they need to be at full strength before confronting Kaidou. Luffy wakes up and helps Zoro fight off the other Gifters. Just as Apoo prepares another attack, Kid crushes him with his Punk Gibson despite Killer warning it will blow their cover, as Kid wanted revenge on Apoo for betraying him.

An attack from Kid is seen, with Apoo underneath and beaten up. The Beasts Pirates call onto Apoo and one of them recognises Kid, saying that he's not one of them. They are surprised to find out that another member of the 'Worst Generation' has broken out of Udon Prison, and as such, Queen is surprised, as he remembers from Babanuki's words that there was no problem in Udon. Kid then exclaims and grabs Apoo by the collar, furious that he got deceived by him then Apoo retorts that pirate alliances don't have happy endings and that he never believed they could defeat one of the Four Emperors anyway. He then attacks Kid using his Devil Fruit ability and the latter smirks, saying that he's trash. The Beasts Pirates then ask how can they defeat and take Kid and the others alive during that situation, then Queen says it's okay to kill them. As the Beasts Pirates prepare to attack Kid, Killer defends from the back and Haccha, one of the Numbers proceeds by rampaging at the place. Another pirate pointed out that he already took out two people. Kid is surprised to see how gigantic the Number is and how the Beasts Pirates 'can't control him'. Haccha gives a hearty laugh and the rampage continues, with Luffy's silhouette being seen to attack. Luffy tells Kid to get to the keep and Kid proceeds. Luffy exclaims at Kid for bringing problems, Zoro then exclaims that he's one to talk, while Kid says the same to him. Killer thinks that the other three are being ridiculous, with a laugh. Apoo attacks once more, but this time, Killer tells the others to cover their ears. Apoo clicks his tongue when he finds out that his powers did nothing, thanks to Killer's quick thinking. The latter explains that Apoo's powers only work when they can hear him, only to get a 'what' from Luffy, Zoro, and his captain.
Meanwhile, the Beasts Pirates are exclaiming that there are a lot of Worst Generation members in Onigashima, and that they should start taking their heads. Another adds that Killer has eaten a SMILE, hence turning him into a 'Pleasure'. Angered, Kid almost starts another fight, but is stopped by Luffy and the others.
As Who's-Who remarks the Udon escapees, the higher ranking members of the Beasts Pirates talks about taking them all out but he retorts by saying that they should go searching for Kaidou's son, Yamato, instead. He tells them that getting to Yamato is more important and they shouldn't let Sasaki beat him to it. Who's-Who then goes on by finding out that Queen wanted to 'wipe somebody out' and says that he does too.
Big Mom is getting ready, wearing her kimono, and says that her children must be there soon enough and that apparently, their ship did not receive any damage from the fall when King knocked them over the waterfall. She is then questioned by someone who says that, strangely though, no ship had been seen near the port. Only to receive a confused reaction from her.
Meanwhile, at the eastern side of Onigashima, Kin'emon leads the attack. But instead of going all at the same place, they divide into two groups. The first half will breach the keep from the dome while waiting, and should they succeed, Kaidou and Orochi will also be surrounded by behind. Kin'emon's group, aiming for the back entrance, proceeds. However, because they have outdated maps, their route looks different. Now with a large bridge on the way, in the view of a brothel, domain of Black Maria, member of the Tobiroppo. Sanji decides to enter it. But Kin'emon is worried that his group cannot cross it, as with their big numbers, they would raise suspicion from those inside. Nami says that they're going in too and Shinobu that they will form a group in search of Momonosuke, as Kin'emon remembers that Momonosuke mentioned that he wanted to escape on his own. With this, Nami smiles and reassures him by saying that he should leave it to them while Carrot says that he should focus on the battle instead, while patting him. After Kin'emon thanks them for being supportive, someone is coming out of the brothel, and it is actually Sanji. He has a deflated expression and Kin'emon assumes he couldn't find women and that the building is empty and that the group can safely cross the bridge without the risk of being caught.
The attack proceeds. But Big Mom, who was changing in her room next to the brothel, notices the commotion outside and peeks. Kin'emon and the others dive into the water, leaving her nothing to lay her eyes upon except for Chopper whom she shared eye contact with.
At the waterfall of Wano's entrance, Big Mom's children are climbing the body of water. They question Big Mom's judgment in regard to agreeing into an alliance with the Beasts Pirates - in which Smoothie replies that it's what she decided and she respects it. Daifuku echoes then tells them not to forget why they were even there in the first place; Mont-d'Or and Galette remember - to take the Straw Hats' heads and make them pay for ruining their reputation. Then, they decide to first go after the Straw Hats and only later meet with Big Mom and Kaidou. While Flampe goes on with her personal goal: to get Kaidou to like her. They're almost at the top again, when Perospero recalls they're in the same spot where King attacked them earlier. Another 'bird' is seen from the sky and they think it's him again, but it isn't. Perospero shows a shocked expression upon recognising who that 'bird' is; Marco, the Phoenix, commenting on how the rumors of the alliance between the Beasts Pirates and Big Mom Pirates is actually true. Troubled, the members of the latter panic as the Former First-Division Commander of the Whitebeard Pirates knocks over their ship from the waterfall.
Nekomamushi notices the ship falling, then wonders what's going on. A sly grin from Izou is shown as he points out that it's been a while since Marco took a move.

Kaidou yells at Black Maria to do the job he gave her and the rest of the Tobiroppo, but she tells him to relax because enough people are out looking for his son. Kaidou ultimately accepts her presence, especially on the day they can all let loose, something Orochi happily agrees with because he believes he finally eliminated the 'ghosts' of the Kozuki Clan. Orochi tells Kaidou that Kanjuro will be over here soon along with the captains of the ships who he supposedly believes sank the Nine Red Scabbards. Kaidou looks forward, wondering if he accidentally killed him by mistake. He then says that if Kanjuro is so trustworthy and claims to have heard nothing, then he will believe Oden told him nothing about Laugh Tale. Suddenly, Kanjuro arrives beating up several Beasts Pirates and carrying an unconscious Momonosuke before Kaidou orders his men to stand down because he is Orochi's ally.
Kanjuro greets Orochi and admits he got lost trying to find him and several Beasts Pirates attacked him because they still thought he was the enemy, which he asks for forgiveness for. Orochi then notices Kanjuro carrying Momonosuke in his hands while also noticing his face looked badly beaten. Kanjuro reveals he attempted to flee from him so he beat him until he couldn't move, though he reassures them he can still breathe. Orochi laughs at how ruthless Kanjuro truly is for beating the heir to the Kozuki Clan close to death, but Kanjuro says that now his role as a retainer is over, he considers Momonosuke nothing more than a brat. Kaidou ends up recognizing Kanjuro and Momonosuke while noting that Momonosuke hasn't changed since the last time he saw him. Kanjuro flings Momonosuke to the ground saying he is not worthy of his father's name as Black Maria picks him up and sympathetically says that Kanjuro's actions were extremely cruel.
Just before Orochi can offer Kanjuro a drink, Kanjuro reveals that the plan to stop the raid failed because he underestimated Kin'emon's tactical skills (despite it being pure luck). Orochi becomes nervous at the though that the samurai are on their way to Onigashima, but Fukurokuju jumps down from the ceiling and reports that not a single boat had been spotted at the port. He does reveal the three ships sent to handle them failed to return, and that Monkey D. Luffy, Roronoa Zoro, Eustass Kid, and Killer were spotted near the stage, with the possibility that their crews are on Onigashima as well. Orochi yells why he didn't say something earlier and Fukurokuju says Queen is handling the situation, so he felt it wasn't worth reporting. He also reveals that the samurai in question haven't been spotted either. He concludes by saying that with the full force of their armies on Onigashima, there is no doubt Orochi will be perfectly safe. Black Maria tries to cheer Orochi up by pouring his drink, but Orochi is not convinced the samurai aren't present on the island and wants them dead. Momonosuke wonders if everyone made it to the island just as Orochi grabs him off Black Maria's lap. He sadistically says that he will crucify the leader of their enemies and kill the last remnant of the Kozuki Clan, which he feels will give him peace of mind.
Off the coast of Onigashima, Inuarashi is informed that Nekomamushi and his men have finally arrived. Inuarashi yells at Nekomamushi at what took him so long but Nekomamushi says that it is okay because he still arrived in the end. Inuarashi informs him that they are on their way to northwestern tip of Onigashima before Nekomamushi hangs up. Kawamatsu expresses relief that Nekomamushi made it as Kikunojo wonders how big he got since she last saw him. Ashura Doji speaks up that they need to hurry to the entrance and Law says that his ship will allow them to bypass the ocean currents on the sides of the island. Raizo hopes Kin'emon and Denjiro made it to the rear entrance and hope Momonosuke is alright.
On board Nekomamushi's ship, Marco is surprised that he arrived at the same time as Nekomamushi, making the message he gave him to deliver to Luffy completely pointless. Nekomamushi says he can toss the message while thanking him for joining them. Marco says that he liked Oden back then but word of Wano never made it out to sea, so he never guessed his home was in as much danger as he thought. They continue on their way as the message is revealed: 'Sorry if I am a little late, but I'll be there'.
At the southern army's position, Sasaki encounters Denjiro (still thinking he is Kyoshiro) and is surprised he came despite hearing otherwise, but Denjiro tells him to keep it secret. Denjiro asks why Sasaki left the party and he explains he is looking for Kaidou's son. Suddenly, Denjiro has his men chain Sasaki to a tree and orders him gagged as Sasaki yells what he is doing. Denjiro reveals the mark of the Kozuki Clan on his back to Sasaki which shocks him, as he asks him if he knows anything about the history of Wano. Denjiro orders his men to split up into an assault force and an infiltration force.
At Kin'emon's position, Chopper and Usopp are retreating from Big Mom in the Brachio Tank V as Kin'emon and his men arise from the water expressing amazement that even though they are scared to death, they are leading Big Mom away so they can proceed, and the samurai thanks them as they continue on their way. Nami, Carrot, and Shinobu wonder if Usopp and Chopper with be okay before heading on their way as well, with Nami saying that there is nothing they can do to help Usopp and Chopper fend her off. They are then spotted by Prometheus, who recognizes Nami as the one who abducted Zeus. He then calls for Big Mom, which scares the three women.
Within Kaidou's keep, Ulti and Page One are searching for Yamato together, though Ulti starts getting on Page One's nerves saying that she is tired and demands he give her a piggyback ride as she jumps on him. The two fall down the stairs and Ulti comes face-to-face with Luffy, with both asking what each one wants.

At the rising carp waterfall outside Wano Country, Charlotte Perospero is seen riding another candy slug with his powers and separated from the rest of his siblings. He sees Onigashima from afar and proceeds to make his way there on his own. He also reveals that he does not approve of this Big Mom Pirates/Beasts Pirates alliance, claiming that the Big Mom Pirates will be left standing at the end of the day.
At Black Maria's brothel, Usopp and Chopper finally escape Big Mom, but only because she decided to chase after Nami instead so she could reclaim Zeus. Chopper asks Usopp what they will do, but all he can say is that they are in the clear now. He also noted that when Big Mom hit them, the Brachio Tank V activated the leg parts of the General Franky robot, which they use to continue onwards. Chopper says that they were able to help Kin'emon ultimately and Usopp adds that Nami and her group will come up with a solution for their problem, especially with Sanji with them. Chopper then reminds him that Sanji is in a brothel, which will no doubt bring forth complications.
Within the brothel, Carrot, Nami, Zeus, and Shinobu run away from Big Mom as Prometheus follows them and calls out to her. Zeus asks what they will do and Nami says she saw Sanji earlier, though she gets extremely annoyed when she learns from Carrot that he came into the brothel to see the prostitutes while claiming he won't leave them behind. Big Mom also starts creating Homies with her powers as she follows them.
At the Skull Dome, Kurozumi Orochi has Momonosuke crucified for all the Beasts Pirates to see. At the same time, Zoro is fighting multiple Gifters and showing signs of exhaustion. They point out the futility of this struggle and that he should just swear loyalty to Kaidou instead. They reveal they all tried to be Pirate King themselves, but it would be better if he just surrenders. At Kid and Killer's location, Killer reminds his captain how crazy it is to break in through the front lines, but Kid says they will be fine as long as Heat's group, which got separated from the two, isn't found. Before the Beasts Pirates can fight him, they get distracted when they learn Kaidou is looking for his son, allowing Kid to strike back.
At Luffy's location, Ulti nuzzles Page One and worriedly asks if he is alright, to his annoyance. She angrily yells at Luffy for hurting him only for Luffy to remind her that she was riding him down the stairs like a sled when he saw them. Ulti asks what group he comes from before her subordinates reveal he is an intruder. Luffy confirms this by introducing himself and saying he will become the Pirate King. The Beasts Pirates laugh at that claim considering their location and Ulti jumps into the air preparing a headbutt, yelling that the only one who will be Pirate King is Kaidou. She unleashes an Ul-Zugan on Luffy's head which he matches with his own. The clash creates an explosion that blows several pirates away as they commented on how Ulti's headbutt is so strong it is like a cannon firing, and that with the hole she made in the ground, she must have crushed Luffy's skull to pieces.
To their surprise though, both Ulti and Page One transform into their dinosaur-hybrid forms, as Ulti is revealed to have eaten the Ryu Ryu no Mi, Model: Pachycephalosaurus. Their subordinates ask why they did so and Ulti answers that it is because she acknowledges his skill. Her subordinates insist she got him, but she retorts that she senses a powerful Haki. Sure enough, Luffy gets out of the rubble while acknowledging Ulti's strength and reminding himself he needs to be careful. He charges at Ulti and grabs her by the horns before slamming her into the ground. Page One charges at Luffy but dodges him and gets underneath him as he uses his Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gun to smash his head into the ceiling. Ulti transforms into a full Pachycephalosaurus and grabs Luffy, all the while the other pirates worry the keep won't survive the confrontation. Ulti prepares another headbutt while Luffy tries to go into Gear 4, but suddenly, he senses someone's arrival, and immediately, a new person knocks out Ulti using the same move Kaidou used to defeat Luffy previously: Raimei Hakke.
The pirates recognize the man as Yamato as they try scrambling to capture him for Kaidou. Yamato asks if Luffy if he is who he thinks he is. When he confirms, Yamato grabs him and runs away from the pirates chasing him. Yamato says to Luffy that he won't hurt him and Luffy believes him, having sensed no ill intentions prior. Luffy explains that he needs to keep moving but Yamato says he has been waiting for him. He introduces himself as Kaidou's son, which shocks Luffy.

Page One tries waking up Ulti and demands the other pirates nearby to get a doctor. He also curses Yamato for what he did and demands the others to head them off and let him know where they end up. One of them asks about Page One because of the hit he took from Luffy, and he responds by saying that Luffy almost dislocated his jaw, which shocks them that that is what is irritating him so much. Ulti wakes up and bashes the medics near her while embracing Page One saying that she is hurt because of the medics. He calls her a psychopath and tells her to rest and she retorts that he should try saying it again to see what happens. Ulti also curses Yamato for using his father's Raimei Hakke and says that it was more like a Raimei Yonke, though Page One says it managed to hurt her. Page One is then informed that Luffy and Yamato have stopped moving, and he immediately heads for their direction, leaving Ulti behind, which annoys her. The nearby Beasts Pirates remark that dinosaur Zoan users are crazy strong.
At Yamato and Luffy's spot, the two have started fighting. Yamato reminds Luffy he won't hurt him but Luffy ignores him and says he is in a hurry himself, so he can't just drop everything and follow someone he doesn't know. Yamato pleads Luffy listens to him and he says he has five seconds, but Yamato says he doesn't want to talk with him with others watching and Luffy says to him to forget it. The Beasts Pirates nearby are unable to get close enough to capture Yamato as Yamato tells Luffy that their fight reminds him of another he had in the past. Luffy and Yamato clash again and a huge explosion occurs. By the time Page One arrives at the location, he is informed by his subordinates that they lost sight of them.
At the Skull Dome, Orochi reveals to the Beasts Pirates how Momonosuke survived the destruction of Oden's castle by traveling through time courtesy of his mother Toki, but some of the Beasts Pirates are skeptical while others don't believe it to be true, still believing the Kozuki Clan was wiped out twenty years ago. One of them says this to two others near him, unaware they are actually Jinbe and Robin in disguise with Robin even trying to have Momonosuke brought down closer for her to 'see him'. Robin asks Jinbe what they should do because she can't stand to see Momonosuke in that position, but Jinbe says that they can just wait for the Red Scabbards to make their move. The Beasts Pirates continue to laugh at and scorn Momonosuke, while Hyogoro and the other rebels wait patiently, as their infiltration was a success.
Aboard the Polar Tang, Law manages to breach the surface with the rest of the Scabbards, and after opening the hatch, uses his Shambles to warp himself, Bepo, Shachi, Penguin, and the samurai onto the island while the rest of his crew goes back under. Law notices two entrances and says the upper one leads to Kaidou, just as they are surprised by the sudden drop of Nekomamushi next to them all. Inuarashi sees Marco in the air as he goes to check out a strange shadow in the water. They are all then surprised when they noticed Izou was with them, as Nekomamushi revealed that Marco told him where to find him, so he brought him with them. Kikunojo cries tears of joy at reuniting with her brother, as Izou commends Kikunojo for becoming a splendid samurai.
Within the Keep, Bao Huang reveals to Kaidou that Big Mom is on her way. He decides to make his announcement alongside Momonosuke's execution and reveals to his subordinates that he will spice up the execution with the "New Onigashima Project" alongside his All-Stars. Within the attic, Yamato and Luffy finally have a chance to talk, though Luffy gives him five minutes. Yamato explains that one day, he went to his father and said he wanted to be Kozuki Oden, resulting in him getting beaten. Luffy asks what this has to do with him, and Yamato reveals he witnessed the Legendary Hour and saw Oden as a magnificent samurai, as well as frustration, rage, and sadness at how Orochi and Kaidou killed him, something Luffy appears to understand. Yamato then shows Luffy Oden's logbook, which he considers his bible, and how it contains all of his heroic stories, and that neither Kaidou nor Orochi know it exists. Yamato says that with the Nine Red Scabbards dead, someone needs to carry on Oden's will, so Yamato intends to reopen the country. As Yamato says that, he takes off his mask and rips off the sleeves of his attire, revealing to a shocked Luffy that Yamato actually has a feminine body. Yamato then explains that he chose to be a man, just like Oden was. Yamato expresses a desire to fight alongside Luffy to open Wano's borders and says that Luffy is similar to Ace, a statement that deeply shocks Luffy.

At the rear entrance of Onigashima, Kanjuro impedes the Scabbards' progression, claiming he was already convinced of their arrival due to knowing how persistent they are, despite the lack of evidence for an infiltration. Accompanying Kanjuro, there are Beasts Pirates and two decapitated horsemen created by his ability. On the opposite side, stand Inuarashi, Ashura Doji, Nekomamushi, Kikunojo, Izou, Kawamatsu and Raizo. Izou acknowledges the beheaded samurai, which Kanjuro created to mock the Scabbards.
After Raizo demands Momonosuke's release, Kanjuro tells them how the boy tried to escape by using a dagger, ending up cutting Kanjuro's palm slightly. As a response, Kanjuro knocked Momonosuke unconscious with several punches, enough to later be surprised by the child's survival. Proceeding with his monologue, Kanjuro discloses Momonosuke's imminent public execution. While Kanjuro speaks, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi pay attention to Nekomamushi's new prosthetic gun instead.
Kikunojo puts her mask on, now fully wearing her samurai outfit, and interrupts Kanjuro's speech, claiming the wounds her katana provokes do not fade away in the afterlife, and as snow that remains in the spring, they will torment his soul for eternity. Kanjuro accepts the challenge and prepares for her onslaught. They clash, Kikunojo's sword against Kanjuro's giant ink brush. Subsequently, the Scabbards prepare to engage in combat with the Beasts Pirates. As they decimate their opponents, Nekomamushi observes that Inuarashi's leg is now a sword, which Inuarashi promptly uses to cut his enemies.
At the castle, Kaidou's speech is about to start. Inside the ceiling, Yamato claims that, as Kozuki Oden, it logically follows that Luffy, as Ace's brother, should give him a ride on his ship. Luffy contests his pretence to be Oden, infuriating Yamato, who then replies that perhaps Luffy is more Oden than him. This confuses Luffy, leading to Yamato explaining he cannot be Oden as long as he is not free, due to Kaidou imprisoning him inside Onigashima by putting explosive handcuffs on him at the age of eight. Yamato shows doubt in the explosive properties of the device, as the one who put them on him is his own father, but reveals the fear of that possibility kept him trapped. Straight away, Luffy offers to remove the shackles and asks if Yamato is ready to fight against his father. Yamato agrees to it and discloses his desire to do so comes from Kaidou beating him multiple times since childhood.
The conversation is interrupted by Kaidou's speech. Yamato and Luffy bend one of the ceiling's slabs to watch the projection. Kaidou initiates by recognizing Whitebeard's war two years ago has caused commotion in the world. He claims that the disbandment of the Seven Warlords means the World Government is confident their new force is capable of stopping them. As such, he has decided to ally with Big Mom to gather the Ancient Weapons.
Hearing her name, Charlotte Linlin appears in courtesan's clothes and with a newly created army of homies, with Prometheus on her left side and Zeus being held by her as a fan. Her rapid appearance throws some Beasts Pirates in the air and terrifies the rest. Nami and Carrot are subjugated by Big Mom; Robin and Jinbe notice them.
Kaidou points out Big Mom's tardiness, but she lively dismisses it, as she is on time. They continue their announcement, now shouting in unison that their objective is to claim the One Piece. Kaidou reveals they plan to create a world of violence with the Ancient Weapons. Orochi is pleased by the announcement. Luffy, on the other hand, is irritated, as the One Piece is what he plans to get.
The second part of Kaidou's speech is addressed at Orochi's followers. As Wano is a land with waterfalls as natural defense, and with the populace of the Flower Capital as a labor force, Kaidou plans to expand the weapons factories and create a paradise for pirates. Orochi is outraged by this, claiming the Flower Capital is his territory and that he is allowing Kaidou to produce the weapons in the first place. Immediately, Kaidou grabs King's sword and beheads Orochi.
Commotion starts as the public sees Orochi falling, and Kaidou gives an ultimatum: in five seconds, Orochi's followers must choose either to rebel or serve him. Kaidou reveals he has no interest in the country's history and punches the cross where Momonosuke is tied to, bringing it to the attention of Luffy, who shouts for the boy's name. As this happens, the ceiling breaks, causing Luffy and Yamato to fall into the Live Floor.
Back at the rear entrance, Kikunojo is crying and her sword is dripping blood. In the castle, Kaidou shouts that he will create a pirate empire with Onigashima as the new Flower Capital and that Wano will cease to exist, renaming it New Onigashima, with his son Yamato as the next shogun. Yamato is infuriated at her father's words and runs alongside Luffy to his location. Luffy is concerned about Momonosuke.

Kin'emon and Denjiro's group makes it to the rear entrance of Onigashima, and the Guardians wish them farewell as the duo climb up the stairs to Kaidou's fortress. They reach the top to find the other Nine Red Scabbards waiting for them silently, with Kanjuro and his men lying defeated on the ground. The Scabbards shed tears over Kanjuro as they remember the times they shared together in Oden's service, and Kin'emon puts his kasa on his fallen former comrade's head as he walks by him. Izou remarks that he knows this must have been hard for the duo, and Kin'emon and Denjiro are shocked to see him here. Kin'emon greets Izou, who is intent on making his last stand here after missing previous chances for a meaningful death.
Inside the Skull Dome, Kaidou gives Orochi's subordinates the choice between joining him or dying, saying he would praise the samurai if they remain loyal to the deposed shogun as their code dictates and give up their lives. However, both Fukurokuju and Hotei quickly pledge the Orochi Oniwabanshu and Mimawarigumi's services to Kaidou, and Hyogoro openly reacts in anger to their lack of warrior's pride. Big Mom is relieved to have this issue dealt with, and orders her homies to keep Nami and Carrot restrained. Nami places her trust in Shinobu to save Momonosuke, and as Shinobu moves stealthily through the crowd, she notes that Oden knew all along that killing Orochi would change nothing and their real enemy is Kaidou.
Kaidou then addresses Momonosuke, questioning how a cowardly boy like him could be the son of someone like Oden. Since Momonosuke had never answered when he asked for his name 20 years ago, Kaidou gives the boy the chance to confess that he is not part of the Kozuki Family. Meanwhile, Luffy reveals to Yamato that the boy onstage is Momonosuke and that his retainers are all still alive. Luffy then moves to take off Yamato's handcuffs like he had promised, and he successfully uses his advanced Busoshoku Haki to damage them from the inside, allowing him to tear them off and throw them aside. Meanwhile, Who's-Who and Ulti receive a report that Yamato and Luffy are heading toward the Performance Stage, and elsewhere, Usopp turns around the transformed Brachio Tank V to head toward the stage despite Chopper's worries, telling him to trust in the iron machine's exterior even as Chopper spots giants around them. Some drunken Beasts Pirates spot the Nine Red Scabbards heading toward them but are quickly taken out, and Zoro, Kid, and Law continue to hold their own as well.
Back onstage, Momonosuke remembers his heritage and responsibility and boldly declares that he is indeed Kozuki Momonosuke, the man who will become the shogun of Wano. The Beasts Pirates immediately break out in laughter, and as Kaidou gets ready to execute him, Momonosuke starts crying as he regrets not being able to be a man worthy of facing his father and mother in the afterlife, as well as not having been able to see his sister Hiyori again. Right then, a massive explosion occurs in front of the stage from Yamato's handcuffs, both Luffy and Yamato are propelled forward by it. Yamato is appalled that Kaidou's threat of killing him was true and declares that he no longer think of him as a father. However, Luffy keeps Yamato from approaching Kaidou in order to wait for the Scabbards to arrive and officially start the battle. Right as he says this, the Scabbards come bursting in behind Kaidou, and the All-Stars are shocked at their arrival. Izou quickly shoots King's sword out of his hand, and as the Scabbards ready their weapons, Nekomamushi is able to hit Kaidou's kanabo out of his hand. Kaidou is surprised to see Denjiro among the Scabbards, and as they charge toward him, he proclaims that their swords can do nothing to him. However, the Scabbards resolve to abandon their name and wits and so leap toward Kaidou with a fury that makes him remember Oden and his fight with him 20 years ago. As the Beasts Pirates realize that the situation is getting serious, the Scabbards shout "Sunacchi" as they force Kaidou off the stage and impale their blades into him.

As Kaidou is forced off of the Performance Stage by the Nine Red Scabbards, he remembers Kozuki Oden giving him his lone scar 20 years ago, and then recalls Oden's execution where the samurai enabled his retainers to escape and warned Kaidou not to underestimate Wano's samurai. Kin'emon manages to plunge his sword into Kaidou's body, and the other Scabbards are able to quickly follow suit. The scar Kaidou got from Oden begins throbbing, and the Emperor begins screaming in pain as he realizes the Scabbards are using Oden's Ryuo.
After a long fall, the Scabbards and Kaidou crash into the ground, leaving a large crater. The Beasts Pirates nearby quickly rush to attack, but Hyogoro's forces stand in their way as they cast aside their pirate disguises. As Big Mom looks on at the incident, Yamato goes with Luffy to the scene to help finish Kaidou off. However, Ulti finds Yamato again and attacks with a spiked club, which Yamato parries wielding the kanabo. Ulti says she will have revenge for Yamato's attack against her and wonders why Yamato would do something like that; Yamato replies that this is the day where he will fully become Kozuki Oden, which only confuses Ulti. The Beasts Pirates then call out to Yamato to inform him of the attack on Kaidou, but Yamato bluntly states that they are no longer allies and there will be no concern of Kaidou's death.
Big Mom then comes running toward Luffy, and when she does, Nami and Carrot quickly take the opportunity to respectively use the Clima-Tact and Electro to free themselves from the homies restraining them. Luffy is not pleased to see Big Mom due to being busy, and she states that she came here just to kill him. Meanwhile, Kaidou emerges from the floor with several stab wounds, but is not much worse for wear. He notes that Orochi's paranoid ideas ended up being reality, with the Scabbards having been able to operate under the shadow of the Straw Hat Pirates. He says that pirates will betray them, though, and that the forces that the samurai have worked to gather will abandon them once it is clear they will lose, with Luffy already having lost to him once. However, Kin'emon denounces Kaidou's words as slander, saying that Luffy will one day stand at the pinnacle of the seas and no matter what happens, he will remain and achieve the promise of daybreak coming back to Wano.
Back on the Performance Floor, Big Mom asks Luffy why he came here, being incredulous that he seriously intends to take on Kaidou. To his allies' surprise, Luffy denies it, but then instead says that he came to defeat all of his enemies here in an all-out war. Big Mom and Queen quickly laugh at this, but Queen is then alerted to thousands of samurai invading through the rear entrance. These forces include the Rasetsu Town prisoners, Udon prisoners, the Heart Pirates, and even Marco and Perospero approaching the entrance. Queen orders all of the Beasts Pirates to grab their weapons, proclaiming that the party is over. Kaidou then shouts out from behind the stage, saying he accepts Luffy's challenge. He proceeds to fly to the roof of the Skull Dome in his dragon form, and as the Scabbards hold onto his body to follow him up, Luffy tells Kin'emon he will catch up with them later. Kaidou faces off with the Scabbards on the Dome Roof, saying he has sobered up and that a battle in open space is best, just like their last one, although now Oden is dead. However, Nekomamushi replies that there is another difference between that day and now, as since they anticipated Kaidou intending to fight outdoors, they have brought the forces of the Mink Tribe with them. Nekomamushi then gazes at the full moon, beginning to activate Sulong.

Kaidou faces the minks and remembers that the full moon allows them to use their Sulong forms. Jack, several Gifters, and one of the Numbers reach the rooftop. Nekomamushi and Inuarashi step forward to take on Jack themselves, but the Guardians and Musketeers transform and fight Jack instead, so that Nekomamushi and Inuarashi can focus on Kaidou.
Down below, Shinobu tries and fails to free Momonosuke. King grabs her and throws her away. Suddenly, Momonosuke's chains break and the boy floats through the air. King attacks him, but Sanji, who was invisible, blocks the kick. Sanji then throws Momonosuke to Shinobu, and King transforms into a pteranodon and drives his beak into Sanji's stomach. The two crash into a wall.
Even though Yamato is busy fighting Ulti, Luffy tells Yamato to go help Shinobu protect Momonosuke. Big Mom comes charging at Luffy and plans to kill all the invaders so they can restart the party. She swings Napoleon and blasts a hole through the side of Onigashima. She then calls for Zeus, and when he does not appear, she spots Nami running off with the cloud again. Big Mom steals him back and prepares to strike down Nami. However, Brook slices the cloud into two, while Franky drives the Kurosai FR-U IV over Big Mom's face.

As a distressed Napoleon calls out to the fallen Big Mom, Nami thanks Franky for saving her and Jinbe asks Robin to help him out. With Big Mom out of the way, Luffy resumes heading to the dome roof, and upon seeing Shinobu and Momonosuke running away from Yamato, Luffy assures them that Yamato is an ally. However, the duo are aghast when Yamato claims to be Oden, causing Shinobu to throw a smoke bomb to escape. Big Mom quickly gets up, and the Beasts Pirates start running away with the fear that she will soon rampage; Hyogoro and Yatappe then decide to leave the low-level pirate hordes and go after the Tobiroppo, if only to slow them down. Big Mom recognizes Brook, and Franky introduces himself to her. Nami tells Franky to retreat, as Big Mom is an Emperor of the Sea, but Franky scoffs at that as they are the crew of the future Pirate King.
Franky prepares to fire a Radical Beam at Big Mom, but is then distracted by three Numbers rampaging behind him.  Big Mom is excited to see the Numbers, which she reveals to be failed recreations of the Ancient Giants from Punk Hazard. Franky notices that the central Number, Jaki, is holding the Brachio Tank V in his hand, and promptly fires the Radical Beam in Jaki's face, sending him flying back and forcing him to let go of the tank. With Franky's back now turned on her, Big Mom attempts to strike him with Napoleon. However, Jinbe proceeds to jump up and grab her outstretched arm, pulling it behind her to flip her over. Big Mom is sent tumbling onto two rows of arms generated from the floor by Robin, and Robin sends her spinning all the way over the ledge to a lower level. Their attack's success makes Jinbe and Robin happy, though Jinbe knows it has only made Big Mom angrier.
Franky contacts Usopp and Chopper inside the Brachio Tank, and Chopper pulls Usopp out of his scared stupor as the duo excitedly find out that it is time to dock. Meanwhile, Luffy has made it up to the Performance Stage where Queen is and prepares to pull himself up to the dome roof. Right then, Zoro appears next to Queen onstage, and when Luffy tells him he is going to fight Kaidou, Zoro grabs his feet to accompany him up. However, Queen quickly transforms into his brachiosaurus form and grabs Luffy and Zoro in midair with his mouth. King and several winged SMILE users then appear in the air above Queen, cutting off any chance of Luffy and Zoro making it to the roof. Queen spits out the two pirates down to the ground far below. On the ground, Usopp and Chopper are ejected from the Brachio Tank in order for it to dock with General Franky, while Sanji emerges from the wreckage of King's attack with his Raid Suit having held up. As the Straw Hats gather all together, Hyogoro states that although the alliance is surrounded by enemies on all sides, he cannot imagine losing. Luffy tells his crew to back him up as he makes another attempt to get up to the dome roof.

A group of Beasts Pirates members found Sasaki. The lackeys told him that the battle inside the Skull Dome has already begun. Sasaki wonders how Big Mom destroyed the tree that restrained him. He also told that Kyoshiro betrayed him, as well as his affiliation to Oden's Scabbards. He was also told that the battle between Kaidou's group and the Scabbard-led group has already begun.
At the top of the Skull Dome, the battle continues between Kaidou's group and the Scabbard-led group, with the minks fighting in their Sulong forms. While the minks' combined forces have beaten a number of opponents, Jack and his mammoth form overpowers them. Kin'emon prepares to join the fight but Inuarashi and Nekomamushi prevent the rest of the Scabbards from doing so. The two then transform into their Sulong forms.
On the balcony of Kaidou's Castle, Queen notes that all the prisoners from the Prisoner Mine have escaped. King then bullies Queen for not being able to stop the mass breakout from happening. Queen then wonders if the prisoners threatened Babanuki into saying that the breakout did not happen. King contacts the Tobiroppo through the Den Den Mushi. Meanwhile in one of the rooms inside the castle, X Drake tells Basil Hawkins that Onigashima is in chaos and that this is the best time for anyone to turncoat. Hawkins then replies that he does not need to. He also tells Drake that there's only a one percent chance that an unnamed person survives until tomorrow. Drake then picks up the Den Den Mushi. After picking up, King tells all the Tobiroppo that Onigashima is being intruded by 5,000 people. In comparison, their forces are at 30,000. He then cancels their opportunity to challenge the All Stars after capturing Yamato.
Somewhere within the Live Floor, Ulti reacts to the announcement. Page One tells her that it should be expected. Ulti then asks Page One to give her another piggyback ride after seeing Yamato climb up a wall, much to Page One's dismay. King then tells all the Tobiroppo to prevent the intruding alliance from entering the roof of the Skull Dome. Meanwhile, Who's-Who invites Drake to come with him to meet with Queen to find out who he wants to eliminate.
On the Live Floor, the Udon prison escapees and Denjiro's Yakuza team clash with members of the Beasts Pirates, Mimawarigumi and the Orochi Oniwabanshu. The escapees and the Yakuza tell the Straw Hats not to waste their energy on the lackeys and focus on getting to the castle. However the Numbers notice them. Zoro slices a Number's mace while Jinbe prevents it from crushing them and their allies. Luffy notes that the two Numbers are somewhat similar to Oars, which the Straw Hats barely managed to beat together back in Thriller Bark. He then transforms to Gear 4. Hyogoro notices that his form looks like a Myoo.
Just before Luffy delivers his attack, Drake has been beaten by Who's-Who and Queen after meeting the latter. He was questioned by Hawkins about his objectives, especially with freeing Law. Drake realizes that all three of them wanted to kill him. But before the three can retrieve more information about his intents and dispose of him, Drake manages to escape by destroying one of the castle windows and jumping to the Live Floor. Before he manages to land, he attacks Juki with his saber and four-bladed axe in his hands. At the same time, Luffy delivers his attack.
After beating the Numbers, X Drake expresses his intent to fight alongside Luffy.

The Ninja-Pirate-Mink-Samurai Alliance members recognize X Drake and wonder why he attacked one of the Numbers. As Drake stands before Luffy, he recalls Koby telling him about the pirate, saying that Luffy could attract people towards him to the point of becoming very close friends. In the present day, Drake tells Luffy that he cannot reveal his motives, but their goals are aligned. However, Zoro immediately attacks Drake, considering him as just one of Kaidou's servants like Hawkins. Drake replies that he has been flushed out of the Beasts Pirates, but Zoro, Franky, and Jinbe refuse to trust someone who betrayed their crew that easily. Luffy says that Drake can team up with them, but the other three refuse to agree.
Upon seeing Luffy again, Page One and Ulti activate their Devil Fruit powers and attack the hordes of samurai to try to get to him, but Usopp proceeds to hit Page One with a Midori Boshi: Dokuro Bakuhatsu So. Ulti looks around to see who fired the attack, and Usopp crouches behind Nami and tries to act as her in order to give her the credit for the attack. Nami quickly responds by hitting Usopp, and the duo quickly proceed to run away from the charging Tobiroppo. Meanwhile, Luffy and Sanji move together to get to Kin'emon's group, when Luffy has a premonition of Scratchmen Apoo attacking. He tells Sanji to cover his ears as the Supernova unleashes his Tatakau Music, and this action renders it ineffective. Apoo laments over the defeats of Jaki, Goki, and Juki, being sad that a group of giants powerful enough to lay waste to countless towns would be beaten up while drunk and partying. Hatcha then arrives and picks up Jaki, and Apoo asks if he is sobered up and tells him to show the alliance the power of the Numbers. Luffy tries to go and fight Hatcha, only to be held back by Sanji. Hatcha's eyes then light up in admiration as he sees the General Franky, and noticing this, Jinbe tells Franky to run outside of the Skull Dome in order to lure the giant away from everyone else. Franky does so, and Hatcha chases after him.
Meanwhile, Zoro and Drake continue to clash as the latter continues trying to reason with the swordsman without divulging his true allegiance. However, Apoo then comes running in nearby to call more of the Numbers, and Zoro and Drake quickly team up to simultaneously attack their fellow Supernova. As Apoo dodges and questions Drake's actions, Drake and Zoro reach an agreement to team up against Apoo due to their mutual dislike of him. However, bullets suddenly come flying down onto the Live Floor from above, and Queen calls out to Drake from the Live Stage while holding a Gatling gun. As Zoro and Drake get back up following the onslaught, Drake suddenly becomes very concerned as he realizes what these bullets might be.
On the roof of the Skull Dome, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi have defeated Jack using their Sulong forms, forcing Kaidou to intervene before they can injure him further. Jack apologizes for being too weak, but Kaidou replies that this is not the case; rather, the two minks are extremely strong. Although the minks' assault laid waste to Jack's platoon, Kaidou commends his subordinate for managing to keep all but their two rulers in check and tells him to have his wounds treated. Kaidou then prepares to see how many of his attacks the Nine Red Scabbards can run from as he unleashes a Bolo Breath blast at them, but Kin'emon responds by using Foxfire Style to cut the fire into two streams. His attack also gives Kaidou multiple small cuts around his mouth, and the Scabbards state that they have no intention of running; they are ready to lose their lives so long as they take down Kaidou.

Charlotte Perospero has reached Big Mom, who affirms that she is indeed in an alliance with Kaidou, revealing that the alliance was her idea. Perospero reminds Big Mom that their crew seeks to make her the Pirate King, but she replies that she knows and asks if her children do not trust her. This seems to assuage Perospero, and he drops the issue. Marco then speaks, noting that the alliance between him and Perospero to take down Kaidou is no more. Big Mom chides Marco for joining the alliance against Kaidou, saying that the remnants of the Whitebeard Pirates had lost their way. However, Marco responds that they were no longer bound to Whitebeard's will now that he was dead, and Big Mom understands this and accepts Marco's decision. Meanwhile, Wanda chases after Carrot asking her where she is going, and Carrot reveals that she is going toward Perospero to avenge Pedro's death. Elsewhere, Luffy resumes heading toward the dome roof while the samurai clear the way for him, and Yamato continues chasing after Shinobu and Momonosuke.
Meanwhile, Black Maria and some of her crewmates have hid out in the Tatami Room away from the fighting, and they ask Maria to play a song for them. As Black Maria strums up her shamisen and begins to tell a tale, the Red Scabbards charge toward Kaidou on the dome roof. Kaidou gives a mighty roar, which summons small bolts of lightning that crack the ground underneath the samurai. Nekomamushi scratches Kaidou's head area with his claws, while Kawamatsu performs a circular sword strike around Kaidou's head. To the shock of Kaidou's subordinates, both attacks manage to wound him, though Kaidou is able to knock Kawamatsu into a rock with his foreleg. Inuarashi stabs Kaidou with his prosthetic sword leg, while Kikunojo and Izou respectively strike the Emperor with flying slashes and bullets. Kaidou wonders in bewilderment how the Scabbards are able to hurt him, as none of their attacks resembled Oden's.
Kaidou readies another Bolo Breath attack against the samurai, but Raizo then summons a giant scroll which intercepts the fire blast and absorbs all of it. Saying his scrolls can wrap around anything in existence, Raizo has the scroll wrap around Kaidou's entire dragon body before releasing the fire from it. Kaidou wails in pain as the fire engulfs him, but emerges without any visible damage. Kin'emon then remembers a time when Oden offered to teach the Scabbards his Oden Nitoryu fighting style, but they declined. Oden later wondered why they would not learn his great style, and Toki replied that if they had, they would have fought amongst each other over who would be Oden's top disciple since they all loved him so much. In the present day, Kin'emon, Denjiro, Ashura Doji, and Inuarashi each pull out two swords and stand in a stance resembling Oden's. Kaidou derides their imitation of Oden as cheap as he prepares another Bolo Breath, but the four samurai then leap toward him and simultaneously cut him in the place where Oden scarred him 20 years ago.

In the Flower Capital, the populace proceed to celebrate the Fire Festival, but as it turns out, the citizens of the only prosperous city in the country also feel oppression and fear under the rules of Orochi and Kaidou, and that the only reason they are still alive is because they have clung to the belief that the Kozuki Family would be able to save their homeland, even though everyone was merely treating that belief as a means to support their hearts. Several people wish the day would never end as well as the possibility that the battle between the Kozuki Family and the Beasts Pirates is happening at this very moment, and if Orochi and Kaidou never come back, then they can party away as much as they want, even if they feel like they are only dreaming.
On Onigashima, Zoro, Drake, Chopper, and Robin witness several samurai getting shot by Queen and transforming into ice demons. Queen orders for the doors leading to the other towers to be closed, as what he has just unleashed was another type of virus which he calls "Ice Oni". Meanwhile, Luffy is making his way up the castle from the bottom floor beating up various Beasts Pirates. Sanji, who was with him, takes out several of them before the both of them are confronted by another Shinuchi called Briscola, who ate a SMILE that causes his left hand to transform into the upper half of a gorilla, which the two pirates say is extremely freaky. Offended, Briscola charges at the two of them who dodge. Luffy sees several other strong pirates but Sanji tells him to save his energy for when he confronts Kaidou and to leave the small fry to himself. Luffy retorts that it would take too long if it was just him causing Sanji to yell back that he could take care of them in ten seconds. However, Jinbe arrives and defeats Briscola himself, saying he will escort the both of them to the top of the castle. Sanji gets jealous of him just showing up and warns him to keep his guard up so Luffy does not go off fighting everyone he sees.
Yamato is still chasing after Shinobu and Momonosuke while being watched by a cat wearing a scroll on its face with an eye drawing. Somehow, Bao Huang is able to see what the cat sees and reports Momonosuke's location to King. King contacts the crew and informs them that the majority of the opposing force are samurai with the Nine Red Scabbards being at the core. In other words, this "rebellion" is them trying to reclaim Wano and make Momonosuke the shogun. King orders the Beasts Pirates to kill Momonosuke and bring him his head, believing that the samurai will lose their will to fight, with the pirates being a different story. He then relays their current location. Sure enough, Sasaki encounters Shinobu and Momonosuke and fires at them with his squadron, the Armored Corps. Shinobu uses herself to shield Momonosuke as she begs him to save himself, but the both of them are protected by Yamato, who knocks aside their assailant. Sasaki asks if he is planning to interfere, and Yamato retorts that he is fighting for the Kozuki Family.
On the Rooftop Dome, Kaidou has fallen to the ground with blood leaking out of his scar. The Scabbards charge at him with full intent of finishing him off but Kaidou starts to get back up. As he does, he tells the samurai that their tenacity almost made him feel like he could see Kozuki Oden again, and fighting them, he would not have minded dying at their hands, especially since when he thinks about the wound Oden left, he thinks back to their fight. As he expected, though, the Scabbards are not Oden, and there will never be a samurai as capable as him. He yells that their cuts were too shallow, and with their level of strength, they will not be able to reopen his wound. He unleashes a roar of wind scythes as a counterattack, one of which cuts off Kikunojo's left arm.

Inuarashi orders his men to get away from the roof as Kin'emon uses his Foxfire Style to cauterize Kikunojo's severed arm, who manages to get back up thanks to it. Kaidou says that that is how samurai should behave and states that he likes them, similar to how Roger and Whitebeard did too. He changes back into his human form and says that it is not with the advancement of the times that perfects humans, but in death. He asks if the samurai are ready to finish the fight but Kin'emon retorts that dying at his hand would bring no honor to any of them.
Inside the castle on the first floor, Luffy, Sanji, and Jinbe manage to reach the floor before being confronted by two new Shinuchi named Fourtricks and Hamlet, who have eaten SMILEs that give them the appearances of a chicken and a giraffe, respectively. The two of them confidently say they can take care of the three of them before getting easily defeated by Sanji and Jinbe who yell that the way the animals spawned on their bodies is annoying, as the chicken was sprouting out of Fourtricks' back with his head near its rear and Hamlet's body is the head of the giraffe.
On the Live Floor, Queen's Ice Oni continues to spread to various people, including the Beasts Pirates themselves. Several of them yell to Queen why he dragged them into this but Queen retorts that since they are Pleasures, it gives them a chance to do something other than smiling and laughing. The samurai on both sides try to fend off the demons as Hyogoro sees Omasa has become infected. Omasa attempts to kill himself to prevent himself from injuring his comrades but Hyogoro stops him, saying to not lose hope and to wait until they find a cure, and only when that fails will he give him an honorable death. Chopper, Brook, and Robin try to hold off the demons as Chopper says he will not be able to concoct a cure and administer it to everyone infected in the middle of this fight, but he does know that the one who made the virus is present, and he deduces he must have a cure on him and if they secure it they can mass produce it. Brook acknowledges this to be a difficult task since Queen is an All-Star as Chopper reveals he is more concerned about the after-effects of this virus and the toll it will most likely take on the human body.
Robin asks what will happen if they are left as they are, and Queen answers that all infected will die within the hour, all the while laughing sadistically at this exciting show. Even Apoo is left repulsed by Queen's weapon and tries to escape the floor, but Queen hands him off the only antidote in the world and tells him he will be executed if he lets them get it. Queen announces that he is starting a new game in where everyone can chase after Apoo to claim the antidote and if he escapes within the hour, he will live and everyone dies. Zoro is told by Chopper to claim the antidote while the samurai and pirates gun for it as well to prevent their enemies from recovering. Apoo curses Queen for putting him in this situation.
At the Right-Brain Tower, Sasaki states that Yamato will not be able to escape him and that until Momonosuke dies, their mission will not end. The young boy asks who Yamato is, while Shinobu asks him to protect Momonosuke. Yamato promises to save Shinobu as well and reveals that he was present that day twenty years ago during Oden's execution. Yamato admits to being moved to tears by Shinobu's speech that day and by the story of Oden's life. Yamato is blasted by Sasaki's troops but remains unfazed. He confesses to racing to Kuri Castle to save Momonosuke but could not do anything to help him. He blows away one of the pirates and formally introduces himself as Yamato, and that he is prepared to die for him.

Marco clashes with Big Mom as she demands he stay out of her way. Marco says to her that he doesn't know what role he will play in this war, but he does know how dangerous a person she is. Prometheus, who Big Mom used to attack, ends up getting hurt by Marco's flames, which he says is because a phoenix's flames have special properties. Nevertheless, Big Mom manages to grab him by the neck leaving him open to be shot by Perospero with a candy arrow. Perospero mockingly apologizes to Marco for siding with his mother before confessing that there were times in the past he had wanted to kill him more than now. Just before he can strike him however, he gets slashed across the face by Wanda and Carrot in their Sulong forms.
Carrot confirms to Wanda that Perospero is the one to blame for Pedro's death and despite him retorting that Pedro blew himself up, the two say that his death ultimately brought them together to this battle. After they confirm that Marco is a friend of Nekomamushi, Big Mom decides to return to the Live Floor riding an unconscious Prometheus and Zeus. She yells that she doesn't have time to deal with petty squabbles and tells Marco if he wants her dead, he has to do it another time because she doesn't have the soul weapons to spare on him now. Wanda and Carrot tell Marco to chase after her just as Marco notices someone turning into an Ice Oni.
On the Live Floor, Scratchmen Apoo manages to dodge a strike from Zoro as his subordinates ask him to give them the antidote. Apoo reminds them that if he does, he will die himself and he continues to run while blasting away his pursuers with his Devil Fruit. Zoro and Drake manage to catch up to him and strike him simultaneously, but he blocks them with his tonfas. Zoro tells Apoo that he wants to join Kin'emon up on the dome and fighting him is merely a delay, while Drake reminds Apoo that he has always hated him, which Apoo says is a mutual feeling. Queen curses Drake for immediately siding with the Beasts Pirates' enemy as he looks through the Straw Hat's wanted posters, remarking that one of Vinsmoke Judge's sons is among their group.
Meanwhile, Brook ends up getting touched by the infected Oni, but is completely fine. Chopper deduces it is because Brook has no skin, blood, or warmth, and while that upsets him, it does make him invincible. Chopper also begins to wonder how the Ice Oni virus is able to cause chilling from within the body before Robin points out that he has gotten infected too.
Elsewhere, Usopp strikes Ulti with his Midori Boshi: Devil which catches her in its mouth. She begs for Page One to help her and while he destroys the plant, he adds she could have gotten out of that on her own. He unleashes Midori Boshi: Take Jave-rin on Page One, but Ulti tears through it and strikes him with Ul-Zugan, cracking his skull. After defeating him, Ulti walks over to Nami and picks her up as she begs for her life. Ulti tells Nami that she is upset because Luffy told her that he would become the Pirate King. Nami continues to beg claiming he is an idiot and that she and the others will leave the island, so Ulti demands she say that Luffy will never become the Pirate King. Nami agrees to say it and Usopp tells her to lie since saying the wrong thing will cost her her life after coming all this way. Nami, however, declares that Luffy will never stop until he becomes the Pirate King.
Hearing her answer, Ulti angrily tells Nami to die, but before she can headbutt her, she gets chomped down on by the timely arrival of Komachiyo with Tama riding on his back.

Inside the bathroom in the forehead of the Skull Dome, Ulti and Page One wonder what it was that attacked them before Tama grabs Nami and Usopp and runs off. Ulti demands Page One tear the komainu apart but he retorts for her to do it herself, which upsets her. Nami asks Usopp if he is okay, and he replies he is despite clearly not being so. She says that on the bright side, she is fine, which annoys him. Nami asks Tama how she and Komachiyo got to Onigashima and she replies that she snuck on board an enemy ship. Suddenly, the baboon Hihimaru appears and clashes with Page One as Tama asks for him to hold them off for three minutes. Nami becomes worried that Hihimaru may not stand a chance against the two Tobiroppo, but Tama tells her not to look down on his strength and that they can as samurai.
In the right-brain central tower, Yamato continues to blow away Sasaki's Armored Division. They in turn continue to strike Yamato. Momonosuke becomes worried for him and Shinobu asks Yamato to take Momonosuke and leave her behind. Yamato refuses, saying that Oden wouldn't do that. Sasaki starts to draw his sword and irritatingly tells Yamato that he finds it insulting he would say something like that to him while protecting 'dead weight'. Seeing this, Yamato's teeth start changing and becoming sharp.
Before the two can start fighting, Franky arrives with Hatcha following him. Yamato recognizes Franky inside the General Franky as Hatcha swings his club near Franky, causing him to bust a hole through the floor. Yamato remembers that there is a floor underneath him and grabs Momonosuke and Shinobu to escape. Franky asks if the two have been captured but they answer that they are being rescued. Yamato asks Franky to take care of Sasaki and that Luffy put him in charge of protecting the two. While Franky doesn't know who Yamato is, he nevertheless accepts. As thanks, Yamato uses a move called Narikabura, and fires a shot of Busoshoku Haki at Hatcha that strikes him in the head, defeating him. Sasaki orders his troops to chase after Yamato, who tells Momonosuke that he must live because he believe he is the one who will lead the world to the dawn.
In the second basement floor, Trafalgar Law defeats several guards and approaches a Poneglyph while thinking about what Donquixote Rosinante said about the name of "D.", and how they are considered the enemies of the gods. He also thought back to when he revealed his full name to Robin at an earlier point, which surprised her. She appreciates the trust he has shown telling her this, but she can not give an answer, as despite her interest in the name, Luffy has no interest in knowing. Law realizes that in order to figure out the meaning, they need to follow the Road Poneglyphs. Sadly, the Poneglyph he finds isn't red, so he chooses to keep looking. He says to Rosinante that now he seeks to find the meaning of the "checkered life" he is meant to lead.
On the third floor, Eustass Kid uses his Devil Fruit to gather metal objects and asks Killer if he gathered enough. Killer answers that since they are fighting the world's strongest pirate, it can't hurt to have too much, which elates Kid. At the roof of the Skull Dome, Kaidou continues his battle with the Scabbards and is starting to overwhelm them. At the Live Stage, Big Mom returns, but she says that she only plans on joining Kaidou up on the roof.
Luffy, Jinbe, and Sanji manage to reach the second floor of the castle with Jinbe telling Luffy that the roof is above the fifth floor. Suddenly, Sanji asks the two of them if they can hear that sound from the third floor. He focuses and hears someone speaking in a seductive voice.

On the third floor, Sanji continues to hear what he believes is a woman in danger. He runs up the stairs to see the silhouettes of a man untying the kimono of a woman despite her pleas not to. Sanji becomes worried he is witnessing sexual harassment and rushes to save the woman from losing her virginity. When he kicks down the door, however, he finds himself stuck in a spider's web, as it is revealed the man and woman were merely setting him up for a trap. The two proceed to kick him in the face before completely tying him up. Sanji is then brought forth to Black Maria as he demands he be freed. Black Maria refuses to let Sanji turn her banquet into a battlefield, though she says she finds him charming. She asks if he likes her and he, in turn, answers that he loves her, becoming completely lovestruck.
Elsewhere on the third floor, Luffy asks Jinbe where Sanji is, and Jinbe answers that he does not know. Meanwhile, two Shinuchi named Mizerka and Poker, who ate a SMILE that gives them the appearances of a gorilla and rattlesnake, respectively, are informed that Luffy and Jinbe are on their way to the stairs, where the two are currently stationed. Poker becomes excited, believing that if he and Mizerka can stop them, not only will it make up for Eustass Kid making it past them, but he believes it may promote him to Tobiroppo. Unfortunately for them, the former prisoners of Udon provide Luffy and Jinbe with a hand-made ladder to reach the fourth floor instead, which they accept.
On the Live Floor, Big Mom manages to reach the rooftop, but Zoro notices something fall out of the hole. After he sees it hit the ground, he looks around seeing the continued chase for Scratchmen Apoo for the Ice Oni antidote, as well as noticing Omasa completely becoming an Oni and Chopper starting to change himself. X Drake is still fighting Apoo, but in a split second Zoro defeats Apoo and claims the antidote. He immediately hands it to Chopper and asks if he can handle the floor now, which he confirms. Chopper then announces to everyone that he figured out how the virus works: Ice Oni is fused with a gas that chills the body, so everyone needs to use fire to stop the chilling. He declares he will make enough antibodies for everyone, friend and foe alike. Queen sees this and prepares to blast Chopper and Apoo for failing to hold on to the antidote. His gun, however, is destroyed by Zoro, who angrily tells Queen he did not come all the way to the island to waste time on his stupid game, but to cut down Kaidou, the strongest man in the world.
The ground suddenly starts to shake and Brook asks Zoro if this is his Haoshoku Haki which he immediately denies. Robin says to Zoro that she understands how he feels because she too saw what fell through the hole earlier: Kikunojo's severed arm. Zoro wishes he could fly up into the hole but King and Queen will not make it easy just as Marco flies in asking the crew if they need help with anything. The shaking ground continues to be felt throughout the island and even outside, as the Heart Pirates become unable to reach the island and aid in the fight. Black Maria says that he is extremely impatient.
At the port area outside the dome, Yamato successfully exits the castle carrying Shinobu and Momonosuke, but when they get to the port, they find no ships available to reach Wano. Yamato realizes they were too late as Momonosuke asks what they are talking about. Yamato explains that dragons have the power to fly through the air with flame clouds, which means that as of right now, Kaidou is levitating the entire island to move it to the Flower Capital.
As for Kaidou, he declares that the Kozuki are finished and with Wano as "New Onigashima" functioning as a pirate stronghold, the world of violence has begun.

The Beasts Pirates are left stunned to see Onigashima being levitated into the sky by Kaidou before turning their attention to Marco's arrival. Marco uses his phoenix flames on Chopper which concerns Zoro and Brook, but after Marco dodges them, Chopper realizes that even though he is on fire, he isn't feeling any pain, and that the fire is at the right temperature to hold the virus back. Miyagi and Tristan arrive telling Chopper they are ready to produce more antidotes for Ice Oni, which pleases Chopper. Marco sees the other Ice Oni and uses an attack called "Nashi no Tsubute" to melt the ice on the infected, even Omasa regains control of himself. Marco tells Chopper to work fast because if they run out of stamina, they will turn back. Queen, while watching, becomes angry at Marco for his interference and tells his men to steal back the antidote, claiming the enemy won't bother trying to save them. Chopper proceeds to start making a cure.
After gaining an understanding of the situation, Marco offers to fly Zoro, Robin, and Brook up to the top of the roof. Brook is concerned about Chopper but their allies offer to keep him safe. Scratchmen Apoo gets back up and tries to reclaim the antibodies from Chopper. X Drake, however, stops Apoo by grabbing him with his mouth in his full Allosaurus form and throwing him to the ground. Drake tells Zoro that if he sees him as an ally, then they can go and leave the floor to him. Zoro accepts this.
On the fourth floor, Jinbe says to Luffy that the reason Sanji stayed on the third floor is most likely because he sensed a very powerful enemy, causing Luffy to remark that he needs to further train his Kenbunshoku Haki. Jinbe also sees that the fourth floor is filled with tough enemies and offers to stay behind and let Luffy continue on. At the right-brain tower, Franky fires at Sasaki's troops with General Franky who block his missiles before Sasaki charges at Franky and knocks him over. After he recovers, Franky sees that Sasaki has transformed into a Triceratops, having eaten the Ryu Ryu no Mi, Model: Triceratops. Sasaki and his troops tell Franky to give up because he is the strongest animal in existence.
On the third floor's banquet hall, Sanji, while still tied up, is running from Black Maria and her group, with Black Maria revealing she has eaten the Kumo Kumo no Mi, Model: Rosamygale Grauvogeli. She teasingly tells him to stay forever so she can make him her pet. Sanji tries to keep his cool but in his eyes, he is completely surrounded by girls, which he considers heaven. This causes all the women though, to say that something is wrong with Sanji. Jinbe enters the Nekoka-fe on the fourth floor and confronts Who's-Who, who has eaten the Neko Neko no Mi, Model: Saber Tiger. He seems to be a little disappointed that Luffy has gone on to bother Kaidou and demands Jinbe leave his subordinates alone while calling him a former Warlord of the Sea. Jinbe tells Who's-Who that he would prefer to be referred to as the Straw Hat Pirate's helmsman now, causing Who's-Who to sarcastically apologize and that he called him that because he once saw him when he was a Warlord. Jinbe tells Who's-Who that if he takes his mask off, he might remember him, but Who's-Who tells him that will never happen. Outside the Dome, Page One and Ulti have defeated Hihimaru and are currently fighting the samurai while wondering where Usopp and Nami went, with Ulti wanting to smash Nami's head.
Yamato brings Momonosuke and Shinobu to the Skull Dome's storage room to treat her, confident no one will find them there. Momonosuke notices a statue and asks Yamato what it is. He explains that it was a statue of a dragon that was previously placed at the entrance of Onigashima, but it was discarded after his friend destroyed it. That friend turns out to be Portgas D. Ace, who Yamato reveals came to Wano many years ago to kill Kaidou.

In a flashback, Portgas D. Ace and his crew, the Spade Pirates, came to Wano, where despite Ace's crewmate's pleas, he immediately started fighting Yamato. Ace demanded Yamato reveal himself before Yamato tells him to do so first. Ace introduces himself to him and announces he has come to take Kaidou's head. Yamato reveals to Ace that Kaidou and his crew have left Wano on an expedition so he won't find any member of the Beasts Pirates on the island while also revealing Kaidou is his father. Yamato tells Ace to stand down as Ace notices the explosive cuffs on his wrists.
Ace's crew tell him that they should leave and return the abducted children to their families. Ace, however, says that it doesn't make sense someone as strong as Yamato isn't the captain and wants to settle the fight. Yamato agrees, saying he has been bored for a while. They clash again and Ace yells that Yamato can't choose his father, and if he hates Kaidou so much, why is he not only allowing him to chain his wrists, but his heart as well. This moves Yamato to strike the Dragon statue and declaring he wish he could leave Wano and sail out to sea on adventures the way Kozuki Oden did. Ace becomes so impressed by this that he also strikes the statue with his fire.
Afterwards they share a bottle of sake where Yamato tells Ace once he gets the cuffs off, he wants to leave before asking about what it is like outside of Wano. Ace admits there are many people making a name for themselves such as Cavendish, and while he himself is making a name, there are many others, such as Eustass Kid, Trafalgar Law, and Capone Bege, but the toughest one of them all hasn't set out yet: his brother, who Ace is confident will be massive.
In the present, Yamato explains to Momonosuke and Shinobu how the both of them broke the dragon statue and how Kaidou was furious. Momonosuke was surprised to hear that a previous pirate tried to save Wano before asking about what Yamato meant when he referred Kaidou as "father". Yamato reveals his heritage, causing Momonosuke and Shinobu to back up in a panic. Yamato tries to calm them down by saying that he hates Kaidou and consider himself Kozuki Oden, but that just confuses them even more. Nevertheless, they still accept Yamato as a friend and ask why he was telling them about Ace. Yamato explains that Ace died two years ago and proceeds to talk about him again. In another location, Tama reveals to Nami her own history with Ace and how hard she was working to become a kunoichi as well as how ungently Luffy told her he had died. Nami apologizes, saying that is just how Luffy is, before saying that Ace's death was painful for Luffy too, which confuses Tama.
On the Performance Floor, Queen orders his men to stop Marco, who reluctantly do so despite him healing their disease. Marco decides not to face Kaidou yet and tells Robin and Brook to run into the castle while he takes to the skies carrying Zoro in his full phoenix form. Marco thought back to the past and how when Ace joined the Whitebeard Pirates, he pleaded with Whitebeard to go to Wano. Whitebeard refused, revealing that the reason the position of 2nd Division Commander, which Oden held previously, went vacant for so long was because they didn't learn about his death until several years after. Marco admitted they thought about making a move on Wano, but feared the loss of life that would have been as a result. Ace demands he go alone because he made a promise, resulting in a fight between him and Whitebeard with Whitebeard calling Ace arrogant for thinking he could stop someone who Oden couldn't even beat. After Ace was beaten, Marshall D. Teach laughed that he understands feeling like taking down a big shot like Kaidou before Marco corrects him saying Ace isn't doing it for that. Ace decides to grow stronger, with Izou and Marco asking Ace that if he is allowed to go, he should take them with him. Back in the present, King and Queen transform into their dinosaur forms as Marco gets closer to the hole. Queen tells Marco he can't just assume he will be able to fly straight past them and that all the samurai are probably dead now, while King adds that once Oden's son dies, the battle will end. Marco retorts that the two of them are foolish to think that because they are fighting against the New Generation. Queen tries shooting Marco with a gun in his mouth, but the shots just go through him.
Back with Tama and Nami, Tama is shocked to learn that Luffy and Ace were brothers and starts feeling guilty for what she said to Luffy earlier about him. Nami reassures her that if it upset him so much, he would have said something before moving on to the plan she had come up with. At the same time, Momonosuke learns from Yamato that Ace was both Gold Roger's son and Luffy's brother as Yamato asks if Momonosuke brought Luffy to Wano. When he confirms, he says that it has to be an act of fate if Luffy was picked out of all the pirates in the world. Yamato also adds that Luffy bears the name of "D.", which confuses the two of them.
Atop the Skull Dome, Prometheus and Zeus recharge by consuming fire and lightning, respectively, before Big Mom tells Kaidou he is free to kill all of the Straw Hat Pirates except for Nico Robin. Kaidou asks Big Mom if Charlotte Pudding can read the Poneglyphs, but Big Mom says no, and she doesn't want to wait anymore. She asks where he plans on dropping Onigashima and he reveals he will drop it on a castle in the Flower Capital that stands as a symbol of the Kozuki. Big Mom says that lots of people will die if he does that, but he doesn't mind because he can get more slaves. Big Mom asks if the Road Poneglyph is in the Flower Capital, but Kaidou tells her that she is playing her hand too quickly by asking that. Big Mom yells for him not to insult her because even after everything, she considers him a little brother to herself. She then reveals that on the day Rocks fell, she was the one who gave Kaidou his Devil Fruit: the mythical Uo Uo no Mi. Because of that, she believes he owes her a debt for life.
Kaidou brushes her off and says that they can talk about it all they want once they find the One Piece.

Finally reaching the fifth floor, Luffy comes across the Inuarashi Musketeer Squad, who have cleared the way to the roof and ask him to continue onwards. Luffy thanks Shishilian and makes his way to the roof, while also telling all of them that he remembers how they defended Raizo with their lives, which causes Shishilian to tear up. On the Live Floor, Marco uses his flames to hold Queen (who is shown to have a mechanical elongated neck) and King back while he throws Zoro up to the roof, much to his chagrin though.
In the storage room, Yamato returns Oden's journal to Momonosuke, revealing he had believed he had died twenty years ago, and he never expected a day he could meet him. Yamato also reveals he found the journal near the river at the foot of Oden's Castle that day long ago and says that someone must have protected it, since it has written about his life and time traveling the world. Yamato asks if Momonosuke was born on Whitebeard's ship and he even sailed on Roger's ship and explains that Oden and the Roger Pirates predicted that a little over twenty years in the future, a new generation of pirates would advance to the New World, and he believe they were talking about this very moment. Yamato also revealed that he thought Ace would have led the charge but after his death he recalled something.
In the past, Ace accidentally told Yamato about Luffy and his dream before demanding he never laugh at him. He declares he won't allow anyone to mock his dreams because he and Sabo believed in him. Before he can finish, Yamato starts tearing up and declares he would never laugh at him, because those were the same words that dumbfounded Oden. Ace is intrigued by who said that and offers to drink with that person and Luffy someday, only for Yamato to reveal that person was dead, which annoys him. Afterwards Yamato gives Ace his Vivre Card, who explains to him how it functions and asks to meet him again someday, which he agrees to.
In the present, Yamato reveals that Ace's Vivre Card disappeared without a trace one day, which made him realize he was dead, and the newspaper the next day revealed everything, such as Ace being Roger's son and that Luffy was already making a name for himself. Yamato explains that Momonosuke brought that very same person to Wano, as if Oden documented the future, and how a group of powerful pirates would shoulder the burden of the next era and go to the New World, and by chance he died, they would defeat Kaidou in his stead.
Speaking of, Luffy and Zoro reach the roof of the Skull Dome along with Eustass Kid, Killer, and Law where they confront Kaidou and Big Mom awaiting them. Luffy notices something and starts walking toward the two as Kaidou tells Big Mom what Luffy told him previously. Big Mom also adds how he talked back at her and how he destroyed her castle, so she wants an apology. To their surprise though, Luffy ignores them and walks past them over to the Nine Red Scabbards and Izou, who were defeated and left beaten on the floor. Kaidou turns to look at Luffy and demands he say what he said to them previously to their faces. Luffy, however, continues to ignore them and apologize to Kin'emon for arriving late. He looks at the injured samurai as Kin'emon distraughtly says that he can't leave things as they are, or he will never be able to face Oden in the afterlife. He asks Luffy to shoulder their burden and save Wano, who agrees citing that it is the land of his friends.
An annoyed Kaidou proceeds to raise his club to strike Luffy, who asks Law to move everyone away with his Devil Fruit powers, which he does so. He then jumps high into the air dodging Kaidou's strike as he goes into Gear 3. As he does so, he thinks back to when the Mink Tribe revealed that Raizo was safe and that they would never sell out their allies, Momonosuke's tears as he yelled, he wanted to take down Kaidou, Kin'emon revealing he had traveled through time, Yasuie's execution, Hyogoro's tears of joy, and Kin'emon revealing the details of Oden's death. He then proceeds to strike Kaidou with a new attack called Gomu Gomu no Red Roc, slamming him into the ground and actually causing him to bleed. Big Mom is left in disbelief at the sight of Kaidou getting knocked down as Luffy introduces himself as the one who will surpass the two of them and become the Pirate King.

Big Mom yells at Luffy for his declaration, saying he doesn't know what it means to be Pirate King as Kaidou gets back up, realizing that Luffy's attack, actually did hurt him. Zoro and Kid are surprised to see his punch work and Killer says that they might actually have a fighting chance. Kaidou, however, wonders what happened after he defeated him back in Kuri since he only knows a few people capable of fighting him. In that moment, he sees the shadows of Oden, Whitebeard, Shanks, Roger, and Rocks behind Luffy, and he gives a smirk.
Luffy uses his Kenbunshoku Haki to foresee Kaidou's Raimei Hakke, but it moves too fast and Luffy still ends up getting hit, though he is able to stand this time, which Kaidou admires. Big Mom tries to use Prometheus to attack Luffy, but Zoro ends up using Kin'emon's Foxfire Style to cut Prometheus in half, which causes the homie immense pain. As Prometheus reforges, Zoro reminds Luffy that they are fighting two Emperors of the Sea, so they can't afford to drop their guards. Before Kaidou can strike Luffy again, Law uses Shambles to save him, bringing him closer to him. Afterwards, Law yells to Luffy that he had already planned on using his powers to move the samurai below, but when Luffy told him to do it, it made it look like he was following his orders, but Luffy retorts that it doesn't matter. Kid takes the opportunity to mock Law calling him Luffy's subordinate, which he vehemently denies, but he calls them both losers which annoys the both of them.
Big Mom has Prometheus fire three balls of fire which she calls Heavenly Bonbon. As the fireballs got closer, Luffy says that whoever reacts to the fireballs first is a loser. Law and Kid refuse to play that game, which causes Luffy to call them losers. This causes all three of them to take the fireballs head on and get struck, much to Zoro's annoyance. Kaidou demands Big Mom stay back while he sees their strength, as Zoro tells Killer not to get in his way, calling him "Kamazo" due to recognizing his laughter. Killer retorts that if was using his "Punishers" back then, he would have beaten Zoro, but he doesn't believe him. They both attack Kaidou, who praises them for their strength, though Zoro realizes he needs to release more of Enma's power.
Luffy, Law, and Kid get back up as Luffy goes into Gear 4, Kid creates a huge suit of metal with Punk Rotten, and Law prepares a ROOM. Kaidou laughs and calls the three of them monsters in their own right, as Luffy punches Kaidou with Gomu Gomu no Kong Gun, and Kaidou gets crushed by Kid's Punk Vise, and gets several rocks dropped on him by Law's Takt.
After a brief moment, Kaidou emerges from the rubble in his dragon form and joins Big Mom in the air riding Zeus and Prometheus covering Napoleon. Kaidou tells the five pirates that it would be a shame for him to kill all of them, but he has no choice. He and Big Mom also plan on taking their crew, treasure, and Poneglyphs, and that whoever wins this battle will become one step closer to becoming the Pirate King.

Kaidou uses Kaifu to unleash several wind blades on the Worst Generation, but Law uses his powers to avoid them. Killer also jumps out of the way while Kid gets struck, but despite Killer's worry, Kid tells him he is okay since the golem is made out of junk that he can reattach. Zoro deflects the wind blade while Luffy dodges them, getting close to Kaidou and striking him with Gomu Gomu no Kong Rifle, which injures him. Kid moves underneath Kaidou and grabs his head with his robot, slamming him into the roof with Slam Gibson, which also causes him pain. Law maneuvers around Kaidou with his powers before stabbing him with Gamma Knife, saying that while he has never seen the insides of a dragon before, he assumes his heart was where he stabbed. The attack also damages Kaidou.
Kaidou shakes them off and admits they learned how tough his defense is, acknowledging them as more than just mindless fools relying on guts. Killer starts running along Kaidou's body, saying that he just needs to cut past his scales to the inside, then uses Kamaa Sonic to damage him from the inside. However, Killer gets struck by Big Mom's Indra, declaring that as long as they are under the open sky, no one will escape from her. Kaidou admits the Worst Generation is vexing, but before he can chomp on Killer, Luffy strikes him with Gomu Gomu no Rhino Schneider. Kaidou prepares to use Bolo Breath again, but Zoro tells Law to move him into the air, which he does reluctantly. He cuts the fire with Homura Saki to protect Luffy while using Hiryu: Kaen on Kaidou. Big Mom warns Kaidou to dodge because the sword Zoro was using is no ordinary sword. Unfortunately, Zoro missed his attack and ended up cutting off one of the horns of the Skull Dome, while Kaidou tries to figure out why Oden's presence can be felt in that sword.
Zoro gets struck by Big Mom's Tenman Daijizai Tenjin while the others try to block it. Luffy gets struck as well, but comes out of it unscathed, much to Big Mom's confusion. Luffy yells to Big Mom that he is rubber, so her lightning will not work on him. He tells her that she will pay for striking everyone the way she did, but Luffy gets hit by Kaidou's Bolo Breath. To Kaidou's equal surprise, Luffy came out unscathed as well, claiming that it was his guts that protected him. He then strikes Kaidou with Gomu Gomu no Kong Gatling.

Luffy finishes pummeling Kaidou with Gomu Gomu no Kong Gatling, knocking him into the ground as Big Mom watches in horror. After finishing, Luffy deflates and returns to normal and lands on the ground as the others watch. Kid asks when Kaidou managed to strike him, but Law explains to Kid that what he is seeing is a side effect of Luffy's Gear 4 form, and now he will not be able to use his Haki for ten minutes. Kid acknowledges the cost of that strength, but as long as it did some damage to Kaidou it would not matter.
Big Mom laughs if that was the extent of Luffy's strength and uses Haha no Hi to attack him. Zoro, however, manages to grab him and save him from the attack as Big Mom demands he hand him over. Kid tells Killer to keep up the pressure on Kaidou as Law gets close to Big Mom and uses Counter Shock to damage her. Kaidou gets back up and sees Kid and Killer charging for him, and unleashes Tatsumaki to blow everyone away. Zoro comments that Kaidou is practically a natural disaster as he loses his grip on Luffy, who flies into the air and gets chomped on by Kaidou. Angry, Zoro demands Kaidou release his captain as he unleashes his Kokujo: O Tatsumaki on Kaidou, forcing him to release Luffy while getting damaged in the process, which surprises Killer that he actually pierced through Kaidou's scales. Kaidou, who sensed the strange Haki he felt from before again, finally deduces that Zoro was using Oden's sword, as the pain felt similar. Kaidou decides to take on Zoro's twister challenge and unleashed a stronger variation of Tatsumaki called Tatsumaki Kaifu, which everyone tries to dodge.
Inside the castle, CP0 is revealed to also be attending, though they were disappointed by the sudden death of their business partner Orochi and that the banquet had devolved into a battlefield. They deduced that this was a result of a grudge the samurai held on Kaidou for twenty years. But with Doflamingo gone, a clash between the Worst Generation and the Four Emperors was unavoidable. So, the samurai joining the pirate's side was no surprise. CP0 say that if two of the Four Emperors fall, there is no telling what will happen in the World, though they feel it is of no concern. One of their entertainers informs them that of the 5,400 samurai, 400 have fallen, whereas of the 30,000 Beasts Pirates, 3,000 have fallen. As CP0 keep record with a go board, they admit that the samurai's sneak attack worked since any other method would have failed. However, just killing Kaidou will not be enough; they have to defeat all of Kaidou's officers to truly win this battle. CP0 say that the pirates should just try to wipe as much of the other side out as they can.
Up on the roof, Kaidou changes into his hybrid form as he tells Big Mom that this battle has started to get fun, which she agrees with.

On Onigashima, the Shinuchi Speed delivers a bag full of Kibi Dango to several Gifters, telling them that they were made with Queen's special tonics and will boost their body's natural healing process. Some were unsure if they would work, but Briscola, who ate one, says that they are. She tells the Gifters that there are enough for all of them and they have a muscle-boosting effect, which makes them even more excited.
Speed then recalled how Tama told her that she wanted her help to take her to Onigashima since no one else would take her with them. As they were making their way to the island, Tama made several Kibi Dango despite tiring herself out. Speed told her to stop but Tama continued to make them, saying that each one would create a new ally. She also told her that she wanted to see a Wano without Kaidou and Orochi and one with Momonosuke as the shogun so she would never go hungry again. Speed agreed to fight for her, along with Gazelleman and Daifugo, who Tama had also tamed. They decided to hide in wait until the right moment.
In the present, Gazelleman and Daifugo proceed to distribute Kibi Dango to various Gifters. Some of the prisoners of Udon spot Daifugo and try to attack him, but Daifugo tells them that that is all water under the bridge. He then proceeds to shove the dango in the mouths of Gifters and Shinuchi, such as Mizerka and Poker, declaring that they will all serve their new master.
In the right-brain tower of the Skull Dome, Franky uses General Left on Sasaki, but he brushes them off as he tries to ram into Franky. Thankfully Franky stops him by grabbing him by the horn and flinging him on to his back. Before he can attack again, he gets pinned down by Sasaki's Armored Corps, leaving him open to be rammed by Sasaki. Franky then hears Usopp, Nami, and Tama calling to him. Just as he is about to ask them for assistance, they beg him for help instead. He sees that they are being chased by an army of Gifters as Sasaki orders them to block their way before declaring that their side has the advantage in numbers. Tama, however, announces that she is here to turn that around as Nami and Usopp drop the act and stick their tongues out at him. Tama yells for the Gifters to help Franky which they agree to, and in the confusion the Armored Corps lose their grip on Franky, allowing him to dodge Sasaki's attack.
Sasaki asks what is going on, and Page One and Ulti, who caught up to the Straw Hats, tell Sasaki that the Gifters and Shinuchi have turned on them and to take them out. He asks if they have turned traitor but Ulti deduces that it is the work of a Devil Fruit. She jumps into the air and tells Nami that she must want her to bash her skull in. Nami, however, uses her Thunder Lance Tempo to deal a blow on Ulti, much to Page One's horror. Nami does know that a lightning attack of that power will not be enough to defeat her, stating that she needs something even more powerful. Usopp uses his sniping skills to launch Kibi Dan-boshi into the mouths of the Armored Corp, turning them over to their side. Sasaki demands they get back but Franky kicks him in the face before slashing him with his Shori no V-Flash and wounding him.
In the Banquet Hall, Black Maria has Sanji tied up in her webs, revealing that he defeated all of her male subordinates but never hurt her female subordinates, reasoning that as the reason he lost to her. She then demands he call for Nico Robin, telling him to speak to one of her subordinates to echo his voice throughout the castle and in return, she will release him. Sanji asks her what she wants with Robin, and Black Maria answers that they will capture her, mutilate her to incapacitate her, and once they are finally finished with her, they will kill her. Sanji tells Black Maria to not underestimate Robin. On the Performance Floor, Bao Huang informs King that she has located the Nine Red Scabbards in the Treasure Repository. King asks if anyone else can deal with him since he himself is busy at the moment and Black Maria agrees to go since the Treasure Repository is connected to the third floor. Sanji becomes worried that the Scabbards were defeated and begs Black Maria not to kill them.
Bao Huang warns Black Maria to be careful because she detects one more person in the room trying to help the group.

In the Grand Banquet Hall, Black Maria tells Sanji that she needs to go and kill the Nine Red Scabbards and asks Caimanlady if she is ready to broadcast his voice across the island, which she confirms. Black Maria asks Sanji to call Robin, revealing she has laid multiple layers of her adhesive thread at the entrance and on the floor, so when Robin comes up to the floor, she will get trapped and riddled with tranquilizer darts. She then puts on brass knuckles and punches Sanji, once again telling him to call Robin.
She continues to pummel Sanji while her subordinates watch in awe, believing that he would rather die than sell out his friend, with one saying she would fall for him if they weren't on opposing sides. Sanji manages to catch a break from Black Maria's beating and asks to say one thing. Her subordinates assume he plans on telling her "eat crap" and fear she will become even more upset, but to their surprise, he yells for Nico Robin to come and help him, revealing his location and that if she doesn't come, he might die. His message is heard throughout the castle with some of them thinking his call for help is pathetic. Jinbe deduces that the Beasts Pirates are after Robin for her knowledge and Sasaki mocks Sanji for his whining when he also deduces that Robin is being set up to be captured. Marco admits that the Straw Hats are fun and Nami is not surprised that Sanji was calling for help if his opponent is a woman. Usopp points to a cat with a paper with an eye on it and wonders what they are for.
Black Maria is still surprised that Sanji gave in and he demands she let him loose like she said. Black Maria learns that someone is coming, and she tells Sanji that she won't release him, calling her 'love' for him personal. She then points towards a bunch of other men tied up in her webs and says that they can't live without her, which they all say. Sanji, however, yells that he wants to love all the ladies in the world, causing Black Maria to angrily tell him that she won't accept him cheating on her so she will discipline him some more. Sanji yells that he doesn't want her fist to get hurt so his Busoshoku Haki will be soft. All of a sudden, Black Maria gets slapped in the face by a Gigantesco Mano: Spank, knocking her down to the floor. Black Maria asks how Robin was able to get inside past her webs and she explains she can bloom anywhere. She also asks if Black Maria seriously thought luring her to her location would mean she would be easy to capture. She then says that she has spent a lot of time working for evil organizations, so when someone she cares for gets hurt, it pulls out the demon within her. Brook also arrives and frees Sanji with his powers as well as destroying all of her other webs. He then notices all of Black Maria's subordinates and calls them monsters, which they retort that he can't say that. Sanji tells the two of them that he is going to Kin'emon's location because he can't see himself winning a fight with Black Maria, a statement they agree with. Black Maria refuses to let Sanji leave, but Robin asks if that is her last words. She then thanks Sanji for relying on her help, causing him to get heart shaped eyes at the complement while also tripping on the frozen floor.
In the sealed storage room, Momonosuke says that he heard Sanji's voice from a mouse wearing the paper with the eye mark. Yamato reveals to him and Shinobu that the mouse is called a Mary, which are cyborgs. They wander around the island without purpose but share their eyesight with human Marys. This, however, means they know their location, and are currently outside the room. Shinobu asks where they can move Momonosuke to a place he won't be seen as Yamato tells Momonosuke to jump into his clothes. The Beasts Pirates try to bar down the door, but Yamato breaks through, telling Shinobu that they need to knock out everyone or they will be seen, and Shinobu retorts that is not how that works.
On the Third Floor, Jack, who has somewhat partially recovered from his injuries, tells Black Maria that he will deal with the Nine Red Scabbards himself, saying that even if they are damaged, they are still strong enough to defeat a Tobiroppo, so she can't get involved. Black Maria tells Jack she feels insulted but accepts his decision because that lets her take care of Robin. She takes off her kimono revealing a tattoo on her back saying "woman trouble" while wielding a large weapon with a Wanyudo at the end. She tells Robin that at the end of the battle, she will belong to Kaidou, but Robin tells her that she would rather die.

On the Performance Floor, Bao Huang reports that Momonosuke has escaped the Sealed Storeroom, and while she can't see him physically, she is convinced he is with Yamato, which is true as he is hiding within his clothes. Yamato directs Shinobu's attention to a path that Shinobu asks if they can pick a less obvious route. Bao Huang reports that Yamato is with Shinobu, and Sanji, who overheard, realizes both Momonosuke and Shinobu are in danger while also wondering who Yamato is. He asks a beaten pirate where the Sealed Storeroom is and he tells him it is near the entrance to the Skull Dome. Sanji realizes that is in the opposite direction as Kin'emon's position, leaving him confused as to which side needs him most right now. After a bit of deliberating, he makes his decision.
At the entrance of the castle, Charlotte Perospero sits on a rock and looks down at Carrot and Wanda, who he has defeated. He yells to them that the reason they lost to him was because the full moon was covered by clouds, which cancelled their Sulong, and turned them back to normal. He jumps down and grabs Carrot's face asking her if she was serious about wanting to avenge Pedro and what she thought would happen if she waltzed into their home like they were going to have a picnic. He throws her to the ground and tells her that if she doesn't want to see her friends die, she should have stayed in the forest eating grass where she belongs. Perospero then says that while he is against working with the Beasts Pirates, he wants to teach the younglings what it means to be a member of the Four Emperors.
Inside the Skull Dome, several samurai are struggling to keep from turning back into an Ice Oni, as their physical stamina is being burnt up to keep the phoenix flames alight. They are told to keep it together, since Chopper, who is also infected, is working hard to make enough cures. Scratchmen Apoo is told that they can't get through to Chopper and the cure because of X Drake and Hyogoro, who has regained the strength and appearance of his prime. Apoo's followers ask why they had to get caught up in this sick game but Apoo says Queen isn't the type to bestow mercy on crybabies. The Orochi Oniwabanshu wonder how Hyogoro regained his old strength as the old man realizes contracting the disease has extracted all the strength he has to the very inch of his life, and while it is burning away at the last bits of his body for fuel, he will use its power to cut down their enemies. Hyogoro then yells to the other yakuza bosses to strike him down should Chopper fail to make the medicine in time, as he fears he will cut down everyone present should he turn. Sadly, the yakuza confirm this while Hotei and Mimawarigumi decide to challenge him, however, he easily defeats all of them with Hana no Ittoryu: Dohatsu Kohai. As he fights, he admits to himself he wishes he could have been able to fight alongside Oden against Kaidou when he was in his prime, but his retainers were able to pull off this raid in his name while he himself gained a fascinating apprentice in Luffy. He confidently says the dawn of Wano will come as Queen tries to stop him from taking out the entire floor.
Before Queen can fire his laser at Hyogoro, however, he gets struck by Marco with Hoo-in, which causes him to cough up blood. He angrily asks what that attack was, as Marco reminds him that he was fighting him, and he won't be able to think about the samurai until he deals with him. Marco dodges Queen's laser attack while King jumps down and cuts off Marco's left wing. Marco regenerates it though and fires a Bluebird at King, knocking him into a building before he gets kneed in the face by Marco. Queen turns back to normal as he walks over to Marco, but Marco launches him back with Ongle. Marco admits fighting two people with over-a-billion bounties is tough even for him and hopes Chopper finishes soon. Perospero enters the Skull Dome and sees Marco, noticing how exhausted he is becoming.
Eventually, everyone starts turning back into an Ice Oni and Hyogoro asks Yatappe to cut him down, saying he wants this and that the heavens have rewarded him with this final role to play. As Yatappe raises his sword with tears in his eyes, Hyogoro says that he leaves the rest in everyone's hands and this is where his life ends with no regrets.

On the Live Floor, practically all of the Orochi Oniwabanshu and Mimawarigumi have been defeated by Hyogoro, with the Beasts Pirates admiring how powerful he actually is and Scratchmen Apoo commenting how he resists the effects of Ice Oni yet is so powerful. X Drake says that he sees why people fear Wano as Hyogoro demands Yatappe clear his mind so he can kill him. Despite crying his eyes out, Yatappe says he will strike him down as Cho watches also crying and acknowledging how much he is struggling because of how they see Hyogoro as a father. At the same time, Omasa asks Tsunagoro to strike him down out of fear of hurting his friends. The samurai plead with Chopper to finish the antidote soon because time is running out.
Meanwhile, Queen's subordinates ask him why they have to suffer from his virus. In response, Queen angrily transforms into his brachiosaurus form and demands they shut up, declaring Ice Oni as his masterpiece and that he made it for them in a sense. Confused, Queen elaborates reminding the Pleasures that they gambled on a chance to get powers and failed, now to him, they are nothing but dead weight good for a laugh. As for the Waiters, he tells them that no matter how long they wait, there are no more SMILEs to give them powers. Therefore, the only way any of them can be useful is by becoming Ice Oni and ultimately dying. They are shocked by this answer but Queen says that they can always find more soldiers.
Broken by this answer, several Beasts Pirates start attacking friend and foe alike, with some of them declaring that they will quit the Beasts Pirates when the battle is over. The samurai pity their enemies for their cruel commanders but Queen berates the samurai for working alongside Chopper, who he says has probably already used the cure on himself and has abandoned everyone to die. The samurai deny that Chopper would do something so heinous, but Queen says that backstabbing is part of the pirate lifestyle. Eventually, Yatappe works up the nerve to strike down Hyogoro, saying he will join him soon but Hyogoro tells him to take his time. However, the strike is blocked by Chopper, who puts the antidote in Hyogoro's mouth and cures him.
Everyone is relieved to see Chopper as he tells Hyogoro he will be fine as Miyagi and Tristan come in and fire the Chopperphage Nebulizer at the infected, curing them of Ice Oni. Queen angrily demands what Chopper thinks he is doing and Chopper explains that since there are so many people on the floor, he knew it would be impossible for him to cure everyone individually, so he used the antibodies to craft his own virus, one that will cure everyone, and the cannon makes it easier for him to distribute. Queen is flabbergasted at how a ship doctor from nowhere could be so experienced and Chopper answers that he and his crew were scattered all over the world and they had been training for events such as this. Queen angrily asks why he bothered to cure his subordinates and Chopper says that viruses are not meant to be weaponized, as even the user will lose control.
Queen refuses to be lectured by Chopper and tries to kill him, but the Pleasures use themselves as shields for him. Queen demands they get out of the way but they refuse, telling him that they would rather die on the side of their savior than the one who nearly got them killed. Marco takes this opportunity to grab Queen by the neck, giving Chopper an opening to strike. Chopper thanks Marco and takes a Rumble Ball, changing into his Monster Point form. After he does, he slaps Queen so hard he bleeds, but he also yells to everyone present that he is not a "tanuki", which they have been calling him constantly. Surprised, all his allies inwardly apologizes for their mistake.
In the Right Brain Tower, Yamato and Shinobu continue moving as Yamato asks Momonosuke if he is okay. Momonosuke says that he is not because he feels disgusted with himself because everyone thinks so highly of him yet he sees himself as weak and foolish. Shinobu denies this and calls him brave, but Momonosuke refutes this claim and transforms into his dragon form at the same time, which surprises the two. In CP0's room, the leader thinks back to when Kaidou had been captured by the Marines and how Dr. Vegapunk experimented on his Lineage Factor, thus creating the Artificial Devil Fruit. The World Government wanted him to give the fruit to them, but Vegapunk considered it a failure and refused, leaving it on Punk Hazard. One of his subordinates asks why he is bringing this up now since Punk Hazard was destroyed, but the leader says that he hopes the fruit was destroyed as well despite the G-5 reporting that one facility was still operational.
Down in the Treasure Repository, the Nine Red Scabbards recover but are confused as to who tended to them. Kawamatsu has an idea but dismisses it as a dream as Kin'emon tells his men to get up and continue fighting. Suddenly, Kozuki Oden appears before the samurai, leaving all of them stunned.

In the Treasure Repository, Oden tells the Nine Red Scabbards that he doesn't blame them for being surprised and explains that Toki sent him into the future with her Devil Fruit powers, a story he offers to explain later. Kin'emon, Nekomamushi, Kikunojo, Inuarashi, Kawamatsu, Izou, and Denjiro are racked with joy over his apparent return and Oden tells his retainers that they can stop Kaidou together now. Just as everyone is about to follow him, Ashura Doji yells for his comrades to not be fooled, saying that the Oden standing before them is an imposter. Kin'emon tries to deny this with the fact that he was standing before them, but Raizo sides with Ashura and reminds Kin'emon that Toki told them that it is impossible to return to the past, and since Oden died that day, how could he possibly be here in the future?
Kin'emon tries to defend Oden, unaware that he has drawn his sword against him. Ashura punches Kin'emon out of the way yelling for him to open his eyes as he cuts Oden's cheek, where they see no blood coming out. Ashura ends up getting stabbed by "Oden" while telling his friends that he understands their wishes that this was the real Oden. Seeing this deception, the Nine Red Scabbards demand to know who would pull such a cruel trick. They all realize that they were the only ones who knew Oden and his mannerisms, meaning that the one responsible for creating this fake was Kurozumi Kanjuro.
Kikunojo apologizes to Ashura for not killing Kanjuro but he forgives her, saying that the sharpest sword will become dull when turned against a friend. The Scabbards start fighting the drawing of Oden wondering where Kanjuro is, and Kanjuro, through the drawing of Oden, reveals that he is controlling the drawing remotely. He also tells his former comrades that it is draining him of his energy, but since he is already wounded, he believes he won't live to see the end of the war anyway. However, he plans on killing Momonosuke, who the Scabbards know is in danger after the Marys revealed his location along with Shinobu. The fake Oden then ignites an explosive which Ashura notices. He tackles the drawing and tells his comrades to escape and stop Kanjuro. He falls out of the room with the drawing telling Kanjuro that his mockery of Oden ends here as the drawing explodes, blowing everyone back.
The Scabbards see Ashura badly wounded but press on after Kanjuro as he declares that masquerading as a Kozuki to destroy them before his death would be a fitting finale to his life-long performance. The Scabbards, however, are stopped by Jack, who was held back by several of the Minks. Inuarashi tells the others to keep going as Jack asks if he seriously wants to fight him alone but Inuarashi says that both of them have been injured, yet he still believes it will be enough. He then tells Jack that this isn't about settling a grudge anymore, but he intends to stop him from causing anyone anymore harm. The others leave to find Momonosuke as Jack mocks that there is no moonlight to activate his Sulong form. Inuarashi, however, retorts that Jack doesn't have his poison gas weapon either.
Meanwhile, Kurozumi Orochi, who is revealed to be alive, starts setting the castle on fire as retaliation for Kaidou's betrayal. He is accompanied by Fukurokuju, who silences anyone who sees Orochi. Elsewhere, Momonosuke returns to normal and hides in Yamato's clothes again, saying he can control his transformation better now, unlike when he first met Luffy and his crew whenever he got anxious. Yamato admits he was surprised he could transform into a creature similar to Kaidou and Momonosuke admits he wishes he could transform into something as strong as Kaidou so he could be more useful. Yamato wonders how Luffy is and wishes to help him as "Oden". Momonosuke, however, reveals that Luffy is worn out but still in high-spirits. Shinobu is relieved but questions how Momonosuke was able to know that.
Atop the Skull Dome, Luffy, who has recovered, is blown into a rock between Zoro and Kid. The two wonder how they are supposed to defeat the two Emperors because it looks like none of their attacks are working. Luffy says that they are because Kaidou and Big Mom are human, so they have to be feeling the pain of their attacks. He tries to attack again but is blown back into the wall again as Killer wonders how he can call the two of them human. Luffy says that a losing attitude isn't going to help as Zoro demands he help come up with a plan. Law suggests they split the two of them up, which Zoro and Kid agree with as Kid says that fighting the two of them is like Hell. Luffy says that is true then he has been to Hell and back a few times. Kaidou looks at Luffy and tells him that his eyes never seem to lose their fire.

Within the castle, the Beasts Pirates struggle to put out the fires that Kurozumi Orochi started. Orochi and Fukurokuju, however, end up encountering the Nine Red Scabbards surprisingly. Fukurokuju advises Orochi to stand back and allow himself to deal with the samurai since they are unaware, he has already died once today. Orochi refuses, saying if he goes out now, he would be surrounded, while also saying that Kaidou softened them up so he believes it will be an easy fight for him. He laughs at the retainers and what is left and asks if Kanjuro's true allegiance came as a surprise. He also admits he was surprised to learn that Kyoshiro was actually Denjiro but he says he will overlook this treachery as he transforms. He tells the seven of them that they do not scare him in their wounded state, and he will kill them as payback for haunting him as ghosts for twenty years. In an instant though, the samurai cut off six of his heads, telling him that they do not have time to waste on him and he will be judged in Hell. As everyone continues on, Raizo asks Fukurokuju if he is serious about avenging Orochi and how surprised he is to see him defend a dead fool. Fukurokuju, in turn, mocks Raizo and the others for fighting for Oden before telling Raizo that they were destined to clash before ever choosing sides.
Atop the Skull Dome, Big Mom suggests to Kaidou that they use a combined attack to finish off the five pirates. Kid asks why Law cannot just use his Devil Fruit powers to send one of them away, causing Law to retort that if he could he would have already, but the reason he cannot is because both their Haki are too strong for him to move directly. Kid says that they will just tear them apart as Luffy warns everyone about an incoming attack. Kaidou and Big Mom ready their weapons while insulting each other and unleash a flying attack called Hakai. To their surprise, Zoro does his best to block the attack telling everyone to run. The deflected attack destroys a chunk of the island but all of them survived, which the two Emperors notice.
Law asks Zoro if he is okay, and he says he barely is. Kid tells Zoro that he was not able to buy them much time but also thanks him for blocking the attack. Meanwhile, Luffy attacks Kaidou. When Kaidou dodges the punch, Luffy smiles and asks Kaidou if he is dodging because he knows it can hurt him. Kaidou swings at Luffy with his kanabo, as Luffy uses Haki to protect himself. Kaidou then fires a Bolo Breath at Luffy, who dodges, but Kaidou jumps into the air and attacks Luffy with Kosanze Ragunaraku, slamming Luffy into the ground. Meanwhile, Kid tells Law that he has finished creating a box, which Law promptly uses to entrap Zeus. Zoro and Killer then charge for Big Mom's other homies. Zoro slices Prometheus to pieces with Homura Saki: Rokudo no Tsuji, preventing him from reforming, while Killer knocks Napoleon out of her hand and then chases the sword away. An irritated Big Mom demands the homies return while she gets shot at with Kid's Punk Pistols. Big Mom asks if the five of them seriously thought that removing her homies from her would give them an advantage as she shakes off Kid's attack and punches him into the ground.
Kid, however, attaches some scrap to Big Mom and uses Repel to levitate her into the air while Law uses Takt to launch a boulder at her. She asks what the point is, just as she realizes she has been pushed off of the roof and down toward the sea below. She tries to get Zeus to help but he cannot due to being stuck in the box.

Big Mom cries for Zeus to save her but he can't due to being trapped in Kid's box. Prometheus attempts to save her but Zoro's continuous attacking prevents Prometheus from moving. Law is left in disbelief seeing Zoro still able to move after the Emperors' last attack. Kaidou calls Big Mom pathetic but he charges for Zoro demanding he release Prometheus. Law, however, uses his Devil Fruit powers to switch places with him, where he then uses Injection Shot on Kaidou's throat. He uses Curtain to shield himself, but Kaidou blows him away while saying his powers are annoying. This does give Prometheus and Napoleon the opening needed to rush to Big Mom's aid, causing Zoro to ask why he did that. Law answers that his plans aren't worth one of them dying, but Kid says that they already succeeded in separating the two as both him and Killer decide to take on Big Mom themselves.
Prometheus is able to catch Big Mom, who thanks him for saving her. She also wonders what happened with Zeus as Prometheus says he is always holding them back. He then asks Big Mom for a favor as Kid and Killer notice the clouds above swirling.
Back on the roof, Kaidou laughs at how Luffy was glaring at him while unconscious like back in Bakura Town. He starts talking about different ways to maim him as Zoro tells Law that he has reached his limit so this next attack will be his last. He coats his swords in Busoshoku Haki and assumes his Ashura form while attacking him with Ashura Bakkei: Moja no Tawamure.
Kaidou clutches his chest in pain while asking Zoro if he has Haoshoku Haki. Zoro doesn't know what he is talking about as he falls down, saying that he had hoped that attack would have brought Kaidou down to the ground. Kaidou, however, tells Zoro that his attack will definitely leave a scar on him. He raises his kanabo to attack as Law tries to help him avoid it. Kaidou tells him it is too late and blows the both of them away with Raimei Hakke. After defeating the two of them, Kaidou says that if they had joined him, they could have taken over the world together.
Suddenly, he hears Luffy tell him that they would never team up with him due to their friendship with the samurai. He thinks back to Hyogoro's training and his advice on Haki and admits all the attacks he used on Kaidou were shallow but after being struck with his kanabo, Luffy realized the truth: Kaidou can infuse objects with Haoshoku Haki. Kaidou laughs in confirmation as he charges at Luffy, revealing that only a select few powerful individuals can pull it off as he brings his club down on Luffy. However, Luffy, having worked out how to infuse Haoshoku Haki into his limbs, blocks the attack with his foot without even touching it. He then charges for Kaidou and punches him in the gut again without touching him before delivering an uppercut that sends him flying and crashing down onto his back.
Law is left in disbelief that Luffy did damage without actually touching Kaidou. Luffy thanks both him and Zoro for covering him, but they can go back down to the castle. He declares that he can handle the rest and he will beat Kaidou no matter what.

Kid and Killer try to flee from Big Mom, but she unleashes a wave of lightning from her new homie, Hera, who appears to be composed entirely of lightning. Big Mom uses Hera to unleash an attack called Fulgora, striking Kid and Killer and slamming into the side of the castle. Zeus continues to call out to Big Mom, but he finds himself free from the metal box he was kept prisoner in, with Law realizing something must have happened to Kid. Zeus immediately tries to find Big Mom, while Law uses his Devil Fruit powers to warp himself, Zoro, and Zeus down into the castle. After they leave, Kaidou gets back up and smiles, telling Luffy that he seems to be enjoying this fight, and the higher the risk, the wider he smiles. The two of them charge at each other and clash with their Haoshoku Haki-infused attacks.
Kid and Killer find themselves back inside the castle but they can't find Big Mom. Killer deduces that the hole she made was so big she lost track of them. That means she must be on the second floor, so the two of them try to cut her off to keep her from regrouping with Kaidou. They do get stopped by the Beasts Pirates, led by Basil Hawkins who attacks them with Warabide-to. Kid curses Hawkins for his betrayal but Hawkins merely states that he too was betrayed by Scratchmen Apoo, and joining up with Kaidou was the only logical choice he felt he could make in that situation that didn't involve him dying, though he admits his surprise to see the two of them alive.
Killer tells Kid to go on without him and he does so while Hawkins assumes his Goma no So form. He says that his chances of defeating the two of them simultaneously were slim, but with it just being Killer, his odds seem better, while Killer insults him calling him a true guard dog for Kaidou. Hawkins ignores his words and tells him that his chances of dying are 92%, which is his role in the end. Killer, however, declares that he and his crew take matters into their own hands rather than leaving it up to fate. Hawkins tells Killer that all he can do is wish for luck, but Killer refuses to do such a thing.
On the second floor, Page One manages to grab onto Komachiyo's back while Nami and Usopp try to get him to let go. Page One demands to know why the two of them won't give up. They yell that it is because they don't want to die yet and continue to attack him at every vital spot he has. Tama tells Komachiyo to hold on as she says that Speed has most likely fed her Kibi Dango to several SMILE eaters, so she should be able to take charge of them all. Once she reaches the Live Floor's stage, she will turn them into allies, also saying that she won't care what happens to her after that, but she will hang in there until then. Nami retorts that that won't happen because she and Usopp will protect her, though it doesn't ease her fears all that much.
Usopp uses Midori Boshi: Hanabibana to force Page One to let go. After he hits the ground, Usopp uses Midori Boshi: Baku Bokkuri. Unfortunately for him, Page One endures the attack and gets back up. Usopp yells that he wishes Tama's Devil Fruit powers would work on natural Zoans just as Big Mom crosses paths with the three of them, much to their horror. Big Mom notices Nami and Usopp, but when Tama sees her, she calls her by her name from when she was amnesiac: O-Lin.
Surprisingly, Big Mom goes into what Prometheus calls her "Mothering Mode", which only shows around kids under ten now and then. As a result, Big Mom forgets the Straw Hats and starts talking friendly with Tama, much to the astonishment of Nami and Usopp. Tama tells her that she was worried after she vanished at Udon while Big Mom tells Tama that she wanted to thank her for looking after her when she had amnesia, while Tama is relieved for her memories returning. Big Mom also tells Tama that she will never forget how tasty the oshiruko was when Tsuru gave it to her in Okobore Town, but Tama's expression becomes crestfallen.
Tama explains to Big Mom that Okobore Town was destroyed because the denizens lied to protect the samurai and their raid and was burnt to the ground after lying about eating all the stolen food. This revelation enrages Big Mom as Page One finally catches up to them. He tells Big Mom to not let the enemy escape while he prepares to chomp down on them. Big Mom, however, calls Page One and the rest of the Beasts Pirates ingrates, and that no matter how cruel pirates can be, there should still be standards. She then strikes Page One in the throat with a fist coated in Haoshoku Haki. Ulti and her subordinates watch in horror at this scene while Kid and Zeus deduce her location from the noise.

In the connecting hallway from the Treasure Repository to the third floor of the castle, Izou asks Kikunojo if her severed arm pains her. She denies this and says that it is merely 'itching' until her life is expended. She also says that it is nothing compared to the itch in her heart the day Izou left. He apologizes for that but accepts that she is doing fine for now. Kawamatsu asks Izou what he thinks Wano will become after the country is opened, but he says that if they survive the night, they can talk about that after the battle. Kin'emon realizes that their raid has become an all-out war, and he himself believes he will be enough to protect Momonosuke, so the rest of them can scatter and join in on the fight. Kikunojo asks Kin'emon's permission to kill Kanjuro, promising she won't hesitate this time.
Nekomamushi's attention is drawn to Shishilian and Bariete, causing Kawamatsu to say that he can go off with the Minks while Kin'emon asks Kikunojo to follow him. Nekomamushi learns from Bariete that Pedro died in Big Mom's territory but it was a sacrifice to help them escape. He does add that the one responsible for his death is on the island currently and Carrot and Wanda fought him, but they let their anger get the better of them, and that is the reason he wanted to warn Shishilian. Nekomamushi praises Pedro for dying honorably and decides to get revenge for him, jumping high into the air.
In the first floor crawlspace, Yamato is hiding with Shinobu and Momonosuke, but he says that because Marys will be watching for him, he will be a decoy and create a rather pitiful looking doll of Momonosuke. The two figure that he just wants to fight, but Shinobu was able to get in touch with Kin'emon, so he knows where they are. Yamato leaves Momonosuke in her hands and asks how Luffy is doing. Momonosuke replies that he is weakened but still well, but it is just him and Kaidou now. Yamato decides to make haste as Momonosuke finally starts reading his father's logbook.
On the second floor, Sanji is fighting other Beasts Pirates while carrying Zoro, who is so heavily bandaged up he looks like a cross. A few dozen minutes earlier, Sanji witnessed Law, Zoro, and Zeus appear in the air. He catches the two of them (to his displeasure), and asks Zeus about Nami, but he runs off in search of Big Mom. Sanji demands an explanation from Law and he says that Zoro broke about 20-30 bones and tells him to splinter his limbs and make sure he is conscious and breathing. Sanji retorts that he wasn't talking about him and isn't a doctor and doesn't have time for this but Law heads off looking for Big Mom. Nevertheless, he wraps Zoro up and asks how he ended up like this. Zoro answers that it was Kaidou and Big Mom, which Sanji understands. He says that he trusts Luffy is okay up there and Zoro says he figured something out, meaning he will win this, which Sanji already knew. In the present, Sanji fights off the pirates wondering where to lay Zoro, and ends up meeting with Kawamatsu and Izou. He learns that Kin'emon was heading to help Momonosuke, and Zoro tells the three of them to go to the Live Floor before falling asleep. The three of them proceed to do so.
On the same floor, Big Mom punched Page One so hard he was submerged in the ground, as she angrily asks if he was the one who burned Okobore Town. Ulti angrily tells Big Mom that she will regret that and charges for her, causing Usopp and Nami to realize they could use Big Mom to take her out. Nami yells to Big Mom, calling her O-Lin and saying that Ulti did what she thinks she did (even though she doesn't know what it exactly was). Big Mom, however, angrily tells her to shut up and that when she finishes Ulti, she will go for them. In response, Nami tries to manipulate Ulti into working with her, but Ulti similarly tells her to shut up.
Ulti notices the group trying to flee on Komachiyo, but she quickly catches up to them and strikes Komachiyo in the side with Ul-Zugan in her Pachycephalosaurus form, knocking them all over. She angrily starts kicking Komachiyo for giving her the run around this whole time, causing Tama to beg her to stop. Ulti, however, smacks Tama aside, shocking both Nami and Big Mom. Usopp tells her to take Tama and flee as Big Mom angrily asks if she just witnessed her hitting her friend. Ulti retorts that she smashed her brother but she gets zapped by Nami in retaliation. Usopp tells Nami that they need to flee but Nami refuses, saying that she will crush Ulti for hitting a child.

Usopp tells Nami that they should get away, as Ulti will get up soon and they have no chance of handling either her or Big Mom. Nami responds that Ulti will chase them either way, and it is important that the enemy pirate gets what is coming to her. As Ulti gets up, Nami attacks her with Tornado Tempo, but the Shinuchi easily dodges and grabs Nami by the arms, preparing to pulverize her skull once and for all with a headbutt. However, Big Mom then merges Hera, Prometheus, and Napoleon and uses them to fire a powerful laser at Ulti in an attack she calls Maser Ho. The shot easily pierces through Ulti's body and knocks her unconscious, leaving the Beasts Pirates onlookers in shock.
Usopp and Nami take advantage of this to run away with Tama, telling her they have no choice but to leave the unconscious Komachiyo behind for now. Nami then sees Zeus peeking out from behind a corner, and wonders who Hera is. Prometheus and Napoleon talk with Hera about how they form a great team and Prometheus asks Hera to be his girlfriend, but Hera brushes them off and rejects Prometheus' advances. Zeus starts to cry in worry upon seeing his fellow special homies talking with Hera, and when he sees Nami, he tries to approach her, only for Nami to coldly ignore him. Big Mom then calls out to Zeus, and he apologizes for being late and tries to see if Hera is simply an addition to their group. However, Big Mom tells Zeus that he has been replaced, with Prometheus and Napoleon chastising him for almost letting Big Mom die earlier as well as his many other mistakes in the past. Big Mom then tells Hera to go and eat Zeus and become stronger by absorbing his soul, and as Hera bites into him, a panicked Zeus apologizes to Big Mom and promises to leave her alone if she lets him go. However, Big Mom responds that this would be stealing the piece of her soul she gave him, and that the best thing Zeus could do for her is to let Hera eat him.
Big Mom then plucks Tama out of Usopp's grasp to keep her safe as she goes to attack the Straw Hat duo. Zeus then desperately calls out to Nami and begs her to forgive him for defecting back to Big Mom, which he admits was out of cowardice. Nami refuses to forgive Zeus, and he accepts this, but says he will make it up to her by going against Big Mom before he dies. Zeus then charges himself up with storm energy as he charges toward Big Mom, but quickly runs out of energy as Big Mom grabs him without issue. Big Mom then sucks out much of his soul and gives the remainder of his body, now essentially a soulless husk, for Hera to finish off. Nami unleashes some Black Balls for Zeus to eat so he can escape, but Zeus is incapable of consuming them. Hera then fully consumes him and also bites into the Clima-Tact, causing her power to grow immensely. Usopp is able to get Tama back, and as the trio runs from Big Mom, she readies a flame-powered Napoleon and asks if she will have to kill Tama as well for leaving her. However, Kid then arrives and intercepts Napoleon with a giant metal arm. He then successfully forces Napoleon back and grabs Big Mom's head to slam her into the ground with Punk Gibson. As Big Mom quickly gets back up and shakes off the impact, Kid tells the Straw Hats to leave the Emperor to him, much to their delight.
On the Skull Dome roof, Kaidou stands alone as he remarks that Luffy let his new power go to his head. However, as the unconscious Luffy falls from Onigashima, Kaidou is actually regretful as he notes that due to his failure to fully finish the pirate off, his allies will still maintain their hope and belief in him.

As Luffy falls off of Onigashima and into the ocean, Kaidou states that although the pirate managed to infuse his Haoshoku Haki, his usage of it was crude and clumsy; Kaidou also says that he supposes Luffy could not be Joy Boy. He then receives a call from Bao Huang, who informs him that Momonosuke has been located. Kaidou says he will head to the boy immediately, and tells Bao Huang to announce the result of his and Luffy's fight to all of Onigashima.
On the third floor of the castle, the Beasts Pirates spot Yamato and notice the young master's exploding cuffs are gone, and Yamato affirms this while beating them aside. In the crawlspace under the first floor, Momonosuke is reading Oden's logbook and notes to Shinobu that based on what he has read, he knows he must not die. Right then, Momonosuke hears a powerful voice inside his head that causes him to collapse and writhe around in discomfort as he asks who the voice belongs to. On the Live Floor, Chopper flips over a transformed Queen and body-slams him into the ground and walls, to the cheers of both the samurai and Beasts Pirates defectors. However, Queen remains relatively unharmed while Chopper starts panting from exhaustion, and the All-Star notices and taunts the pirate over this. Additionally, Chopper has been struck in the back by multiple candy arrows fired by Perospero, who has joined the fighting on the Live Floor. Chopper internally expresses frustration, noting that despite having increased Monster Point's time limit, he has not yet succeeded at inflicting significant damage on Queen and he now has less than ten minutes remaining in this form. Several weeks ago, on the voyage from Punk Hazard to Dressrosa, Caesar Clown had learned about the Rumble Balls and derided their short three-minute effect time. He gave Chopper a list of chemicals to add to the Rumble Ball to increase the effect time all the way to 30 minutes, though with the addition of certain risks.
Queen fires a Black Coffee laser beam at Chopper, which he dodges, and as Perospero readies another volley of candy arrows, Bao Huang arrives at the Live Stage and proclaims through the other Marys that Kaidou has taken down both the Nine Red Scabbards as well as Luffy. She states that Kaidou is coming down to eliminate all remaining enemies, and offers the enemy alliance the chance to surrender and join the Beasts Pirates to have their lives spared. The alliance remembers react in shock at this announcement, though both Zoro and Sanji loudly and immediately reject the offer to surrender. As this occurs, Kanjuro reaches the passageway to the first floor crawlspace, where Kin'emon and Kikunojo have already reunited with Momonosuke and Shinobu. Momonosuke is still afflicted by the voice in his head, and is about to tell Kin'emon to tell something to everyone when Shinobu points out that a frog Mary is with them. Right then, Kanjuro climbs up to the crawlspace, with another Oden disguise shrouding him, and greets Momonosuke and Shinobu under the guise of being Oden.
Shinobu is shocked and Momonosuke is delighted to see Oden, but Kikunojo immediately informs them that this is an impostor. Enraged that Kanjuro is utilizing Oden's likeness once again after the ambush that claimed Ashura Doji, Kikunojo charges toward him with the intent of finishing him off once and for all. Kanjuro continues to play the role of Oden, and when he mentions how "he" took in Kiku and Izou, Kiku briefly hesitates, allowing Kanjuro to pierce through her chest with a sword. The Oden disguise then disappears as Kanjuro laughs triumphantly, saying it was only fair for him to give Kiku a fatal wound like the one she had given him. Kin'emon catches Kiku as she collapses to the ground, and she tells him with a smile that although she failed, the melting of fallen snow means that the "dawn" is surely close at hand.
As this happens, Kanjuro attempts to strike Kin'emon with his paintbrush, but Kin'emon swiftly unsheathes his sword and strikes down his former comrade, leaving a deep cut diagonally across his chest. Still standing for a brief moment, Kanjuro laughs and notes how fitting it was for Kin'emon, the one who was his closest comrade during the act he had put on, to "close the curtain" on his life. Right as Kanjuro collapses, Kaidou crashes into the crawlspace from above and readies his kanabo to kill Momonosuke. Kin'emon orders Shinobu to take Momonosuke and flee as he protects them from Kaidou, and he raises both of his swords to try to defend against the Emperor's attack. Kaidou's kanabo shatters Kin'emon's katanas with great ease and slams down onto the samurai with deadly force, and Momonosuke can only look, weep, and shout Kin'emon's name as Shinobu carries him away. As this occurs, Onigashima finally arrives at the Wano mainland.

The samurai and Chopper cry in sadness and fear over the possibility that Luffy is dead, with several of them wondering if they should keep fighting and if Momonosuke is safe. Briscola, who despite having consumed Tama's kibi dango, was still fighting against the samurai due to having not been given an order yet, and says that it isn't that the enemies are weak, it's just that Kaidou is too strong.
Izou and Kawamatsu know that the message was to hurt everyone's morale but Sanji becomes annoyed at how several are losing their will to fight. As for Queen, he defeats Chopper and tells him he was just playing with him since Chopper seemed so sure he could beat him. Also, Perospero fires a Candy Shower of candy arrows, causing the samurai to run in fear and take cover. Queen then reveals his teeth to have retractable spikes and calls Chopper a coward as he prepares to kill him, but Sanji comes to the rescue and attacks Queen with Diable Jambe: Rotisserie Strike, smacking him around while also deflecting Perospero's candy arrows, while he also knocks Queen into Perospero and knocking him away.
Sanji commends Chopper for how long he stood his ground as Chopper tries to tell him about Luffy. Sanji, however, scolds him for crying and reminds him of all the miracles Luffy has pulled off in situations like these. He hands the bandaged Zoro off to him commenting he is worth at least ten men (which Zoro retorts that he is worth two thousand) as he says he will handle Queen as he identifies Sanji as Judge's son. The samurai are in disbelief as to how the Straw Hats are still fighting despite the announcement that their captain is supposedly dead, and Marco reveals this is why he likes them.
Up on the First Floor, Shinobu runs away with Momonosuke as a heavily injured Kin'emon tries to stab Kaidou with his broken sword. He thinks back to when he told Momonosuke to call him father to hide his connection to Oden and how they eventually succeeded in pulling off the illusion. As for Kaidou, he asks Kin'emon what the point is in buying time and running as he stabs him through the back with a sword. He tells him that it isn't easy to accept defeat, but he should embrace his honorable death as a samurai.
As Shinobu runs carrying Momonosuke, she sees that he had picked up a frog Mary, where he announces to his allies that Luffy wanted him to tell them that Luffy is still alive and that he would make it back, so no matter how hurt everyone is or if they have nothing left, they have to keep fighting, as it turns out the voice he previously heard was Luffy unconsciously telling him that he will defeat Kaidou.
Momonosuke's words reinvigorate his allies as Kaidou finally corners him and Shinobu. Shinobu uses her Devil Fruit powers to rot the rocks and causes the two of them to fall, much to his displeasure. As for Luffy, he is found by the Heart Pirates who proceed to save him. Tama cries in happiness that Luffy is alive and she, Usopp, and Nami run to the main stage, but Nami hears a voice coming from her Sorcery Clima-Tact, looking down to see what appears to be Zeus' face.
Big Mom says that Momonosuke was bluffing, and the war ended the minute he fell into the sea, but Law arrives on the scene and says that since he has been working with him for so long, he has now learned to never give up faith with him. Kid asks Law if he is getting in his way, and Law tells Kid that they should play nice for now and work together.
Yamato finally catches up to Kaidou and addresses him by name, causing him to tell Yamato to call him "father". Yamato, however, declares that he has come to free himself from this so-called "parental bond".

As the people of Wano celebrate the Fire Festival in the Flower Capital, Toko and Tenguyama Hitetsu attend as Hitetsu teaches her how the festival honors the dead and how they hope the lit bonfire can be seen from the heavens. Toko says that she hopes her father can see it and Hitetsu says that with the sky clear, he is sure he can, probably watching over her and the future of the country as Onigashima continues to fly over to the capital.
In the visitor's reception room, CP0 continues to observe the battle, noting that despite supposedly losing Luffy, the alliance is still fighting. The boss says that an additional total of 5,000 soldiers have been incapacitated, leaving the Beasts Pirates with 24,000 soldiers and the alliance with 3,000. However, due to the Pleasures and Waiters on the Live Stage having turned on Queen, the Beasts Pirates now have 20,000 and the alliance 7,000. CP0 are amazed by how the disparity in manpower was shrinking and how the tide of the battle constantly changes with new information.
Elsewhere, Bao Huang learns that Momonosuke has fallen off Onigashima, and, believing it means he is dead, becomes excited by the thought of breaking the alliance's spirits. On the same floor, Usopp is amazed at how the Clima-Tact he created was now talking, even thinking he is more a genius than he gave himself credit for. Zeus, however, explains that it is still him, just inside the Clima-Tact. Nami asks how this is possible when she saw him get eaten and Zeus explains that after his soul left his body and Hera was about to eat him, Nami extended the Clima-Tact and his soul inhabited it. Nami expresses annoyance at having a sentient weapon and Zeus realizes she still has not forgiven him but points out that without Big Mom's powers, he cannot leave.
The three arrive at the stage but spot Bao Huang and Ulti together, right before Bao Huang can announce Momonosuke's status, Ulti turns her attention to the Straw Hats as she charges for them. She strikes Usopp to the ground and snatches Tama, blaming her for their Gifters turning against them as well as Big Mom, and also blaming her for Page One's defeat. As she starts choking her, Nami swings her Clima-Tact at her, but Zeus elongates it and even adds spikes to it, leaving Nami amazed. Zeus tells her that Ulti's skin is still hard but no doubt Big Mom's attack left her insides all messed up, meaning one thunderbolt should defeat her for good. Nami says she cannot use an attack like that or Tama will get hurt, so Usopp fires Midori Boshi: Sargasso to separate the two of them.
Nami takes the opportunity to make a cloud, but Zeus becomes the cloud. He asks Nami for a new name and she calls him "Fluff", but he disregards it and continues to call himself "Zeus", her right-hand man. She tries to strike Ulti with Zeus but she jumps out of the way. However, Zeus redirects himself and strikes Ulti, finally taking her down. A shocked Bao Huang accidentally announces all across the island that Ulti had been defeated just like Page One, which ends up causing the Beasts Pirates to start losing their spirits instead. By the time she realizes her mistake, she gets nabbed by Usopp's Midori Boshi: Devil, leaving her immobile and allowing Tama to broadcast her voice across the island.
Outside the Skull Dome, Kaidou flies back to the roof in his dragon form and tells Yamato that Luffy and Momonosuke are gone, and if he is going to play, he must protect his pieces, and if he seriously thought getting rid of his chains meant he could leave. Yamato confirms this and says that after he drives Kaidou out of Wano, he will join Luffy's crew. Kaidou changes into his hybrid form and tells Yamato that he is settling in Wano because it is special. He says that Yamato has no chance of defeating him and he should just accept defeat and become Shogun. Yamato refuses and says that he will hold him off until Luffy returns, calling him the one Oden was waiting for. As the two clash, Kaidou tells Yamato he will not go easy on him.

Queen sees Tama and wonders what she is doing on the Live Floor and screams at her demanding to know who she is and where Bao Huang is. Tama ends up fainting in fear and Usopp and Nami run to her aid.
On the fourth floor, Jinbe struggles in his fight with Who's-Who, who asks if Jinbe plans on making excuses for his subordinates helping him. Jinbe, however, tells Who's-Who that he knew going into this battle that they would be outnumbered, so he never expected to have a one-on-one duel with him. Who's-Who acknowledges his perceptiveness and calls him a real pain, but Jinbe says it is his job to keep him occupied. Elsewhere, Franky and Inuarashi are struggling in their fights against Sasaki and Jack, respectively, as the two of them have backup too. Also, the Gifters learn about the Waiters and Pleasures on the Live Floor having turned against them and charge the floor to deal with them.
Thankfully, Usopp and Nami cheer Tama on to wake her and she yells to all the Gifters she fed her kibi dango to that they are on Luffy and Momonosuke's side (Luffy shown being revitalized by the Heart Pirates while Shinobu comforts a scared Momonosuke). She cheers for all of them to help take down Kaidou, and while Queen is confused by what she said, sure enough, all the Gifters who ate her kibi dango, such as Briscola, Hamlet, and Poker, start turning against the remaining Beasts Pirates across the island.
CP0 takes notice of this turn of events and reacts with confusion while the other Beasts Pirates react with confusion over what is happening as Nami and Usopp praise Tama. When Queen realizes that Tama was responsible for it, he tries to blast her, Usopp and Nami, but he is stopped by Sanji, who Queen addresses as "Judge's brat". Sanji angrily demands he never say his name and he asks if he was part of his insane research team. When Queen asks if he is talking about MADS, he says that was a long time ago as he changes into his hybrid form.
Sanji asks Chopper if he is okay, voicing his concern for him over the fact that as a result of the new Rumble Ball's side effect, he has regressed to a baby, yet he speaks like an old man, which is dubbed "Babyjiji Chopper". He praises Miyagi for possessing a super recovery drug, but Miyagi tells Chopper that when it wears off, it will cause one's pain to double. They plan on administering it to Zoro, who while he knows about the side effect, wants it anyway, saying he doesn't care what will happen to his body afterwards and he wants to fight now.
Back on the fourth floor, thanks to Tama, Jinbe can finally fight Who's-Who one-on-one. Who's-Who uses a Hagan attack, but Jinbe uses Karakusagawara Seiken to retaliate, only for Who's-Who to back up with Soru and counter with a Rankyaku that Jinbe blocks. Jinbe notes that what Who's-Who is using is the Rokushiki abilities possessed by government officials.
Jinbe also says that he heard rumors about a rogue CP9 member breaking out of prison and how odd it is that one would be arrested at all. Who's-Who, who changes into his hybrid form, confirms his statement by revealing that it was him, and that is how he previously knew him as a Warlord despite never coming into contact with him. He says he is happy with what he is now, but he had it rough twelve years ago when he made a mistake, but he considers himself a genius on par with even Rob Lucci. He tries to attack Jinbe with a Gagan but Jinbe dodges, and admits his variations with Rokushiki are impressive, and while he pities his situation, he does not see what it has to do with him. Who's-Who, however, tells Jinbe that it is because he announced himself a member of the Straw Hat Pirates and how it reminds him of his bitter past.
Who's-Who then reveals to Jinbe that twelve years ago, he failed to guard a Devil Fruit that was being transported on a government ship and how shocked he was when Luffy rose to prominence two years ago. He then says that the fruit he failed to guard was the Gomu Gomu no Mi, who he saw was consumed by him.

Within the castle interior, it is reported that a total of 300 Shinuchi with SMILEs have switched sides, and that the cause was a little girl above the stage on the Live Floor. The remaining loyal members of the Beasts Pirates spot her and think that if they kill her, then her powers will wear off. As a result, Usopp and Nami start running again. Thankfully, Daifugo comes to their rescue and Speed arrives as well to offer a ride (though Usopp is forced to run on foot). Gazelleman appears and tells Tama that he found Komachiyo and she can entrust his safety to them, much to her relief. Nami and Usopp (who finally got on Speed's back) admit her powers are incredible to be able to convert enemies into friends. Zeus pops up in cloud form and asks Nami if he can be her servant again. She initially refuses, but clarifies that she wants him to be her sidekick. Zeus, who becomes filled with delight, starts taking the charge and attacking some Beast Pirates members, with Usopp saying she picked up something amazing herself.
It is also reported that several subordinates of the Shinuchi are following them as well, making the total of turncoats 2,000 and leaving the Beasts Pirates with 2,000 more casualties. CP0 calculate the standing and see that now the Beasts Pirates have 16,000 troops against the alliance's 9,000, and that the Gifters' help could result in the alliance winning. Of course, CP0 are unconcerned with who wins in the end, but what they care about is the death of Who's-Who. Joseph asks if they have confirmed his true identity and adds that even if he gets captured, the information he has is too old to be detrimental to the government. Maha says that just leaving him alive would look bad for them, but they ultimately decide to see if he will survive his fight with Jinbe.
Back on the fourth floor, Who's-Who's subordinates start fleeing when they see him getting serious. He uses Geppo to get above Jinbe, who asks if his grudge against Luffy is because he ate the Gomu Gomu no Mi. Who's-Who, however, clarifies that he hates Shanks since he was the one who stole it from him. He uses another Hagan attack which Jinbe tries to block. He unleashes a wave of them and says that Luffy wears Shanks' straw hat and has the fruit's power, so that is why he hates him too.
Jinbe manages to dodge Who's-Who's attacks, which he commends him for, but then he says that he did not expect a slimy Fish-Man to be so fast on land, a comment that Jinbe expresses annoyance at because according to him discriminating against Fish-Men this day and age is out of style, which Who's-Who mockingly apologizes for. Who's-Who uses a new attack called Tekkai: Kibasen and tells Jinbe he wants to ask him something. Jinbe, however, grabs Who's-Who's mouth and flips him over with Hikishio Ipponzeoi and follows it with Uchimizu. Who's-Who tries to dodge with Soru but still gets hurt a bit.
Who's-Who finally tells Jinbe what he wanted to ask him. Back when he was imprisoned, he was told to mockingly pray to someone for salvation. According to a story he heard, slaves in ancient times believed in a legendary warrior that would eventually free them, and he was called the "Sun God" Nika, who was said to bring laughter and freedom, but he does not know if he really existed. He resumes attacking Jinbe while saying that while he was carrying out his long and cruel sentence, he clung onto the legend out of desperation to be saved.
Jinbe asks what this has to do with him, and Who's-Who says that it is because he was the captain of the Sun Pirates, whose crew consisted of former slaves. He also says that Fish-Man history is also a history of slavery, angering Jinbe. Who's-Who starts using Shigan: Madara while Jinbe tries to block as the Beasts Pirates cheer him on. While assaulting him, Who's-Who tells Jinbe that one day, the guard who told him about Nika vanished without a trace, causing him to assume the story was not meant to be shared. He also knew he was in danger too, so he risked his life to escape. He tells Jinbe that he wants to know what he knows about the story.
Unfortunately for Who's-Who, his fingers end up breaking against Jinbe's Busoshoku Haki and Jinbe grabs Who's-Who's wrists with Soshark, telling him he has nothing to say to him. Who's-Who tries to use Rankyaku to break free, but Jinbe withstands it, so Who's-Who tries using Hagan, which Jinbe is able to withstand as well, but he does let go of Who's-Who. Jinbe readies his ultimate technique as Who's-Who asks why he got so mad all of a sudden, but when he tries to back up, he trips, and realizes Jinbe is stepping on his tail. Jinbe tells Who's-Who that if he plans on making broad statements about history, he better be prepared for what he is stepping into. Jinbe then strikes Who's-Who with Fish-Man Karate Ogi: Onigawara Seiken, knocking him down and causing the area to crumble around.

Queen fires several laser shots at Sanji but he dodges him, while also musing at how excited Franky would become if he got his hands on Queen's technology. As for Zoro, the Minks try to heal him but due to the level of bandages he is wrapped in, they need to drive the needle in pretty deep, which concerns him. On the Polar Tang, the Heart Pirates finally pump all the water out of Luffy. They all start arguing about how to best heal him, but Luffy screams that he wants meat.
In the right brain tower, the tamed Gifters continue fighting the other Beasts Pirates backing up Sasaki, allowing Franky to have a one-on-one fight with him. Sasaki angrily decrees that what they have done is treason, regardless of the method behind it. Franky tells Sasaki that he is a tough enemy since he landed several blows on him, and Sasaki likewise admits he is tough himself. Sasaki changes into his hybrid form and says that they have been betrayed on the Live Floor, so he plans on going there to kill all the turncoats, demanding Franky get out of his way as he draws his Karakuri Rasento. Franky retorts that he won't let that happen, also saying that he doesn't mind the turncoats helping him out.
The tamed Gifters agree to back him up but Franky tells them not to, just as Sasaki starts rotating his frill neck bone like a propeller, therefore giving him the ability to fly, which surprises Franky. The Gifters realize what is about to happen but react to late as Sasaki attacks them all with Heliceratops. Sasaki attacks Franky again with it as Franky says that he didn't expect the fight to become an aerial battle. Sasaki tells Franky that the Triceratops is a unique breed of dinosaur as he lands and rotates the frill neck bone again, with clear intent on charging straight at Franky. Franky tries to use General Shield to protect himself, but surprisingly, Sasaki ends up moving backwards instead, having rotated his propeller the wrong way.
While embarrassed, Sasaki plays it off, saying that now he has more running space to charge at Franky, striking him with Tamaceratops. His attack causes Franky's shoulder launcher to misfire and explode, but Franky still grabs Sasaki and uses General Suplex to slam him into the ground. Franky sees the V-shaped scar he left earlier and says that his belly is bound to be a weak spot, using Shori no V-Flash again hoping to finish Sasaki off. Sadly, Sasaki gets back into the air and dodges the strike. The two have a brief sword fight that ends with the Franken getting shattered due to Franky's lack of sword skills.
Franky decides to use his strongest attack and runs away to prepare, with Sasaki giving chase. Arriving back at the Live Floor, Sasaki uses Tamaceratops again but Franky blasts him into the air with Gaon Portable Cannon: General Cannon. While injured, Sasaki recovers and tells Franky that everyone fears the Beasts Pirates because of the Tobiroppo, so he shouldn't underestimate him. He declares he will take him down with him and uses Magnumceratops to slam straight into Franky, heavily damaging the Iron Pirate. Thankfully, Franky ejects and blasts Sasaki in his belly with Radical Beam, knocking him unconscious.
On the roof of the Skull Dome, Kaidou tells Yamato that he would make a worthy addition to the Beasts Pirates' military strength, causing Yamato to retort that that is no way for a parent to talk to their child. Kaidou tells Yamato that the Devil Fruit he consumed was one he had a tough time acquiring and never planned on letting him have it. Yamato tells him that he ate it out of hunger and now he can't swim even though he wanted to set sail. Yamato tells Kaidou that even though he failed to kill him multiple times, all of the defeats have made him stronger, and that the explosive cuffs weren't the only thing keeping him in Wano. Yamato declares that if he just abandoned the country, he couldn't call himself Kozuki Oden, as his Devil Fruit hybrid form is shown.

Atop the Skull Dome's roof, Kaidou tells Yamato that the Devil Fruit the latter once ate from-the Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Okuchi no Makami-is a very valuable Mythical Zoan fruit, and that it was a mistake to let Yamato, someone claiming to be Oden, gain its power because the "Okuchi no Makami" is Wano's "Guardian Deity". Kaidou states that, thus, Yamato ought to protect Wano for him, which the latter refuses, but Kaidou simply says that Orochi had a talent for exploitation, and seeing how his actions turned Wano into such a great weapons factory, all they have to do is take control and keep it running. Yamato, however, says that he plans on helping to protect the country from Kaidou and to open it up, before unleashing a blast of some kind from his mouth called Namuji Hyoga, which Kaidou counters with his Bolo Breath, before saying that he will not let that happen.
In the Third Floor's Banquet Hall, Nico Robin is approached by what appears to be her departed loved ones: her mother Nico Olvia, her mentor Professor Clover, and Jaguar D. Saul. The three tell her to approach them and Robin starts to do so with her arms open. Brook, however, tries to tell her over and over not to go to them, and sure enough, she stops and admits the enemy is trying to fool her, using Tres Mano: Freesia to strike the fakes and expose them as Black Maria's subordinates: SMILE eaters Nure-Onna and Tenjo-Sagari, and female Number Kunyun, who had been disguised by Black Maria's Illusion Mist. As Brook and Robin then run from Black Maria and her lackeys through a hallway, Brook tells Robin that she should have given him a sign that she was not affected by their trick. Robin notes how Brook was unaffected as well, who explains that it was because he was adrift in the Florian Triangle for fifty years and would dream about his deceased crew being alive, so he became used to being hurt by illusions. Robin offhandedly remarks how similar the two of them are due to all their past trauma, just as Black Maria uses Furisode Wanyudo to strike at them, but misses. Her weapon, the staff whose head portion is a flaming wanyudo, is revealed to be another SMILE user aptly named Wanyudo, a man who ate a pug SMILE and is keeping the staff's fire lit by running around in its wheel like a hamster.
Black Maria jumps onto the ceiling, using her spider silk to keep herself suspended upside-down, and declares that her foes are clearly dreaming if they think that they could beat Kaidou. The two Straw Hats dodge Black Maria's staff-whirling attack, which sets the floor ablaze. Robin uses Spider Net to keep herself, and Brook, hanging from the ceiling as well, exclaiming how Black Maria will burn down the whole castle if she continues like that. Black Maria sarcastically thanks her for her worry and notes how, perhaps, Robin ought to just surrender and let herself get caught. Brook, though, uses a move called Cold Soul to freeze the Wanyudo, eliminating the fires. Infuriated, Black Maria swings at Robin, causing her to let go of the ceiling. As she falls, Black Maria insults Robin by saying that, deep down, she knows the Straw Hats will sell her out, while Brook freezes the fire on the ground using Soul Parade so Robin may land safely.
Black Maria says that Sanji knew she was hunting Robin and yet still called the latter to their location, arguing that Robin is simply baggage to her friends due to the powerful figures that are after her. She adds that, with Sanji now the laughingstock of Onigashima, yet having the Straw Hats' number-two bounty, their crew must truly be low-level. Robin and Brook are unfazed by Black Maria's insults, and Brook simply asks Robin if she would like to take care of Black Maria by herself from this point on, which Robin confirms, leaving Black Maria's subordinates to Brook. Robin tells Black Maria that her insults mean nothing because she knows how kind Sanji is, and Black Maria would never understand what it means for him to rely upon Robin. Calling Sanji one of the "Pirate King's Two Wings" that will allow him to soar, Robin then shows off a new technique, Gigante Fleur, to create a giant, multi-armed clone of herself behind her.
Down at Udon's Tokage Port, Momonosuke and Shinobu have reunited with Luffy and the Heart Pirates, who have given Luffy all of their food, yet he still demands more meat. Momonosuke is relieved to see Luffy alive but starts crying over what happened with Kin'emon and Kikunojo, but Luffy tells him to not cry yet until Kaidou is beaten. Off in the distance, Caribou watches Luffy with the others and demands Luffy get himself together or he (Caribou) will never be able to escape Wano. Luffy then points up into the air, at the floating Onigashima, and tells Momonosuke that he needs him to help take him back up to the island, by transforming into a dragon and flying him up there.

Unfazed by Robin's new attack, Black Maria simply says that that giant form of hers must take a lot of energy out of her. Robin tells her not to worry as she plans on finishing their fight quickly, sending her arms at her with the move Sea Serpent. Robin manages to grab Black Maria by her spider legs, but before she can grab her head, Black Maria strikes her giant arms, causing Robin's main body to feel the pain.
Recognizing this weakness, Black Maria jumps up onto the ceiling while swinging her Wanyudo to damage the arms just as Robin notices poison on Black Maria's spider legs, causing her to pull her arms back. This does allow Black Maria the opportunity to restrain Robin's giant form with Marianette, and then use Oshizumaria to leave her giant form open and defenseless. She equips her brass knuckles again saying she is a fighter at heart and proceeds to pummel Robin's giant form, causing her to feel the pain herself.
Robin manages to deactivate her giant form but tries to use the giant arms to grab Black Maria again, only this time Black Maria uses Ikidomaria to block them and uses her spider part, which can breathe fire, to set her highly flammable webs on fire, once again setting the floor on fire with her Atatamaria. Black Maria mocks Robin's claim that she would finish the fight quickly as she traps her in her webs and claims it is what she gets for defending Sanji, who she still calls a disgrace. Black Maria asks if Robin can sprout anymore "flowers" in this sea of flames and if she plans on asking Brook for help, though Brook simply tells Black Maria to stop saying stupid things and to make herself scarce.
Black Maria pays no heed and proceeds to pummel Robin's main body all the while she reiterates how she called her empty baggage with only her mind being of true worth. As Robin endures Black Maria's attacks, she thinks back to her time with the Revolutionary Army, and how Koala and Sabo wanted to teach her Fish-Man Karate and Ryusoken, respectively. Hack told them to back off as Robin's submission holds are plenty strong enough, but Robin decides to learn about using her palms, which delights the two.
Robin remembers how she used her palms when the crew was going to Fish-Man Island and the lessons they gave her. With it, she uses Mil Fleur: Fish-Man Karate: Giganteum, creating a huge hand that strikes the ceiling above. Black Maria at first thinks she missed since it came from behind her, but quickly realizes the attack was meant to put out the fire she started. Robin then displays a brand-new form called Demonio Fleur, becoming a dark-colored demon with wings.
Black Maria immediately calls Robin's new form a devil, which Robin does not deny since it will help her protect those that count on her. Robin then grabs Black Maria's entire body and uses Gran Jacuzzi Clutch to knock her unconscious. Black Maria's subordinates, who hear her screams, peek out from the wall of ice Brook made and are horrified to see her defeated with the demonic looking Robin standing over her, scaring all of them as well. Brook takes the opportunity to finish them off with Phrase d'armes: Orchestra. He walks over to Robin and helps her up as a Mary is shown to have observed the fight.
Down at Tokage Port, Caribou, who has given Luffy a month's supply of food he kept stored in his body with his Devil Fruit powers, demands that he and the Heart Pirates better pay him back for it. The Heart Pirates ask Luffy if he can tell them about the status of their captain and Bepo's group, but he isn't able to properly tell them due to stuffing his face.
Off to the side, Momonosuke asks Shinobu a favor, which is revealed to be him asking her to use her Devil Fruit powers to mature his body into that of an adult and therefore, become a bigger dragon. Shinobu refuses out of concern of how dangerous it is on Onigashima, and on top of that, if she does use her powers on him, he won't revert back, and he will still have the heart and mind of a child. Momonosuke states he doesn't care about that, saying that if he doesn't take action now, all of Wano will be destroyed.

The narration reveals that while the Ninja-Pirate-Mink-Samurai Alliance started with 5,400 people against the Beasts Pirates' 30,000, the gap in power levels has dropped significantly for the Beasts Pirates thanks to Tama's Kibi Dango strategy and the samurai's perseverance, and now, all members of the Tobiroppo are defeated. Also, there are only fifteen minutes until Onigashima reaches the Flower Capital, though Luffy has fully recovered from eating all that food.
On the third floor, Raizo asks Fukurokuju how he could serve someone like Kurozumi Orochi, and Fukurokuju responds saying that the Oniwabanshu exists to serve whoever Wano's shogun is. He also retorts that Raizo is simply fighting for a "ghost" as he slaps him with his long earlobes. Fukurokuju then tells Raizo that he is too emotional to ever be considered a true shinobi regardless of how skilled he is. Raizo, however, retorts that those emotions are what make him and his comrades the Nine Red Scabbards. Raizo tells Fukurokuju that on that day twenty years ago, they laughed, cried, and died with Oden, thereby making him and the rest of the Scabbards ghosts trying to carry out the wish of their lord. He also says that they are carrying out this wish of their own free will even if it means they must perish, but they will succeed in making Momonosuke the shogun and ending Kaidou and Orochi's cruel reign.
Also on the third floor, Killer asks Basil Hawkins how many stand-ins he has left, to which Hawkins replies that he is running out, and then laughs while saying he is starting to get nervous. Killer then stabs Hawkins, but Hawkins redirects the injury to another doll, saying cryptically that Killer should consider whose life he is taking. As it turns out, the doll that Hawkins transferred the attack to was linked to Kid, who gets confused by the sudden stab wound that appeared on his body. Hawkins sadistically says to Killer that it would have been interesting to see him kill his own captain without even realizing it, but he changed his mind to seeing him struggle to fight back with the knowledge that the only way he can defeat him involves hurting Kid too.
On the Live Floor, Queen and King are attacking all the turncoat members of the Beasts Pirates as Sanji has been downed by the two, something even he admits is a tough battle. On top of that, Marco has also reached his limit, and now the two All-Stars are looking for Zoro. Sanji finds Chopper with Zoro and tells him to flee with him if the medicine is not working, but Chopper reveals that Zoro has already been administered it, it is just taking longer due to his condition. Sanji resumes fighting Queen as King orders Zoro found and stopped from recovering. Off in the distance, Charlotte Perospero is trying to shoot Sanji, blaming him for forcing him to team up with the Beasts Pirates by not marrying Pudding. Just as he is about to shoot him, he gets attacked by Nekomamushi (after Shishilian confirms Perospero's identity to him), who knocks him outside so he can avenge Pedro's death.
Zoro is eventually found by the remaining loyal members of the Beasts Pirates and the samurai try their best to keep him safe, but they get stopped by King, who conjures some fire in his hand. Just as he tries to punch Zoro, his attack is blocked by Marco using his Fujiazami. Marco then says to King that he has heard rumors about a race of people who lived on the Red Line and could control fire, indicating that King was one of them. Queen meets up with King and the both of them try to attack him, but Marco does nothing to stop them. He says that from this point on, the stars will be taking the stage. Just as he says that, Zoro, who has recovered strikes King with Rengoku Oni Giri while Sanji strikes Queen with Diable: Mouton Shot.
Both Zoro and Sanji then say that when they conquer this battle it will give them a glimpse of Luffy as the Pirate King.

The samurai cheer for Zoro's return to action while the Beasts Pirates become fearful for the All-Stars, who were knocked down by Zoro and Sanji (though both are still conscious). One of the Beasts Pirates attempts to shoot Zoro, but he is struck down by Kawamatsu. Hyogoro then announces to his allies that no one is to interfere with Zoro and Sanji's battles with King and Queen, knowing that they would only get in their way. Marco, meanwhile, looks at King while thinking back to a story Whitebeard told him about "God's Land", which existed on the Red Line long before Mary Geoise came to be.
Several pirates shoot at Marco but they get shot themselves by Izou, who grabs Marco while also chastising him for dropping his guard during the battle, only for Marco to simply tell Izou he expected him to help him. As they run, Marco asks Izou if he believes in God, causing Izou to retort that Marco is sounding like Whitebeard while he was drunk.
Queen and King stand back up as Queen tells Zoro and Sanji that they need a little more effort to take the two of them, saying that there is a reason he, King, and Jack are classified as "Disasters". Queen opens fire on both of them, but they dodge, but Zoro notices something off about Sanji. Sanji tells Zoro that he has been feeling strange after using his Raid Suit for the third time. Zoro taunts that it will slow him down, but Sanji insists he is fine. King takes the opportunity to strike with his sword, but Zoro blocks it, saying Sanji owes him. When Queen tries to strike with his Bridal Grapper move, Sanji in turn blocks it too saying they are even. After seeing Sanji's Diable Jambe, Queen says that he remembers that Judge enhanced all of his children, believing that Sanji's burning leg is part of those enhancements. Sanji, however, refutes his belief by declaring himself 100% human, much to Queen's disbelief, as according to him, only the Lunarians could burst into flames. Sanji says that it is because his emotions burn hotter than any real flame and resumes attacking Queen.
Zoro starts focusing his attention on King and attempts to strike him, but King blocks with his own sword. Zoro then sees that the bottom edge of King's sword has several notches in it, which his swords get caught in, allowing King to simply toss them away and leaving Zoro open to be punched. Unfortunately for King, Zoro used the sword in his mouth to block it as he calls King a bloodthirsty brute. King retorts that he never understood why anyone would stick to traditional forms and techniques in a real battle, which Zoro accepts, admitting King never claimed to be a swordsman himself. Nevertheless, Zoro reclaims his swords and tells King he can't afford to lose to him. In the distance, Kawamatsu tells Hyogoro that he didn't protest too hard when Hiyori offered Enma to Zoro for a reason, which Hyogoro also sees. According to Hyogoro, Zoro not only has a similar sword style, but also greatly resembles Shimotsuki Ushimaru in his youth, who inherited his ancestor Ryuma's talent for swordsmanship. Also, Zoro ended up returning Ryuma's sword Shusui to Wano, which Kawamatsu considers fate, especially since Zoro is one-eyed much like Ryuma was.
On the Second Floor, Jack battles Inuarashi in his hybrid form as he declares he will put him to sleep while also revealing that he has forgiven him for lying to him about hiding Raizo on Zou because the country paid the price for it. Though tired, Inuarashi manages to throw Jack into the room where Ashura Doji's body lays, in the process, telling Jack that he would have never been able to live with himself or return to Wano if he sold Raizo out, because everything he and his friends have gone through was for this moment in time. As Inuarashi steps outside too, he tells Jack that he has indeed suffered much in the past, but now the dawn of the world is approaching, and he doesn't mind dying for it. Jack then sees that Inuarashi has turned into his Sulong form, as a hole in the roof is letting the moon shine down on him. At the same time in the front entrance, Carrot and Wanda, who have recovered, see Charlotte Perospero in the front. Nekomamushi then arrives, also in his Sulong form thanks to the moon, and tells Pedro to sit back and watch, because he is going to make sure the moon is the last thing Perospero ever sees. Also, up on the second floor, Fukurokuju calls Raizo and the rest of the Scabbards a joke and there is no reason for him to serve the child of a dead man. Raizo angrily tells Fukurokuju that Momonosuke still has time to grow, with Wano serving to shape that.
Down in the Tokage Port, the Heart Pirates panic when they see what appears to be Kaidou in his dragon form, but Luffy, who was standing in front of the dragon, realizes it is actually Momonosuke. While crying, Shinobu explains that she gave in to Momonosuke's request and matured his body by twenty years. When Luffy asks why she is crying, Shinobu says it is because after she did so, Momonosuke now appears identical to someone. Nevertheless, Luffy asks Momonosuke to help him take back Wano together, which he accepts.

On the Second Floor, several Beasts Pirates watch as their allies collapse, with some deducing the cause was Haoshoku Haki. Sure enough, that is the case, but according to Usopp, who has labelled himself as "Usohachi the Sibling Hunter" while riding a Gifter with a Crocodile for a head, the Haki came from himself as he calls himself the man who defeated two members of the Tobiroppo. The Beasts Pirates react in fear as he tells them to join him, while off in the distance, Speed says to Tama that it is actually Big Mom's Haoshoku Haki that is knocking the pirates unconscious, its reach being rather far.
Nami tries contacting Franky asking for a status update on Luffy, but he replies he only knows what Momonosuke said earlier, who Nami says should be with Shinobu even though she cannot reach her either. Franky says that if there is no update then it means things are fine, and informs her that several pirates are trying to swarm the Live Floor while Zoro and Sanji battle King and Queen, and that they must be stopped. Bepo, Shachi and Penguin, agree to help. On the third floor, the fire started by Black Maria goes out of control as Brook carries a sleeping Robin in his arms, and on the fourth floor, Jinbe is informed of Brook's situation as he wonders who is holding Kaidou up right now.
On top of the Skull Dome, Yamato attacks Kaidou with Narikabura. It does not do anything to him as he hits him back with Kongo Kabura which blows him into a rock. As Yamato gets back up, he reveals that Kaidou has been trying to kill him, with Kaidou responding that if Yamato is going to take on the name of Oden that he should be prepared for war. Yamato asks if it is wrong to admire someone and declares that he loves Oden as he thinks back to his childhood.
In the past, a young Yamato, who at that time was called the "Oni Princess" by the Beasts Pirates, was chained to a gate as he continuously called himself "Oden" and demanded that Kaidou release him. Kaidou asks if he knocked everyone around him unconscious, which Yamato denies saying they just fell over, but Kaidou sees that he has Haoshoku Haki too. Kaidou tells Yamato that if he keeps calling herself Oden, he can die, as he has him moved into a cave for a month until he sees reason. Yamato becomes fearful for his life since the cave is filled with powerful samurai, who Kaidou is trying to force to join his crew. He throws in some food and many swords to see if they will fight to the death over it as he leaves. As he does, Yamato begs Kaidou to not leave him in the cave because he believes the samurai will kill him for being his child. Kaidou, however, coldly reminds Yamato of his declaration of being Oden as he seals the cave.
Yamato sees the samurai take up their weapons and becomes fearful that they will kill him out of hatred for Kaidou, but to his complete surprise, they give him the food and tell him to eat, which he gratefully does. After Yamato finishes, he asks if he can be a samurai, prompting the one who gave him the food to cut his chains. The samurai tells him that everyone in the cave adored Oden, and they heard his declaration as him. As the samurai requests he be called "Nobody Important," Yamato shows him Oden's journal, and says he has trouble reading it. Everyone proceeds to read it as Yamato is left amazed by Oden's tales. Ten days later, the samurai tell Yamato that at this rate, they may not be able to see the battle that Oden predicted would happen in twenty years. Yamato says he will fight for Wano on that day, but the samurai decide to break out and fight immediately to make sure Yamato does not die in the cave like Kaidou wants.
In the present, an angry Yamato asks Kaidou why he stole his and Wano's freedom, but he says life does not have simple questions and answers. The two of them both perform Raimei Hakke, releasing a clash of Haoshoku Haki that Kaidou is forced to acknowledge.

Luffy tries to get Momonosuke to start flying, but since he is still a child mentally, he hesitates because of his fear of heights, earning him some insults from Luffy since he is technically an adult. All the while, Shinobu and the Heart Pirates watch this rather awkward exchange between the two.
On top of the Skull Dome, Kaidou and Yamato finish their clash, with Yamato revealing he covered himself in some type of glass to protect himself. He then jumps into the air and attacks Kaidou with Himorogiri, knocking his head into the ground. As he gets back up, Kaidou tells him that the way Yamato defies him almost insinuates that he is from Wano, but he yells that no matter what he does, everyone will recognize him as his child and the samurai will never accept him. Yamato retorts that the statement has nothing to do with anything, but Kaidou says he spent his life crawling around the island hoping to escape because he is alone. Yamato yells that he's not alone because he had friends (remembering Ace). Kaidou replies that's true, since he had those samurais, but everyone who ever showed compassion to him is now dead. Yamato recalls the time one of Kaido's subordinates gave him blankets and food, but was later executed for it. Kaidou then throws him to the ground, telling him that those acts of kindness he received were fake and that everyone was afraid of him deep down. In addition to telling him, that he must use the strength that he has to subdue others, since he is the descendant of a monster, for which he cannot be friends with others: that is his destiny.
Luffy finally gets Momonosuke to start flying and he immediately starts heading towards Onigashima, particularly to the roof. Unfortunately, Luffy learns Momonosuke is flying with his eyes closed, causing him to accidentally crash into the Live Floor and shocking everyone present with both of their appearances. Having lost complete control, Momonosuke starts flying everywhere and tearing up the castle, even tearing through the second floor and surprising Kid, Law, and Big Mom. They eventually do reach the third floor as the Beasts Pirates clamor in confusion over the presence of a second dragon.
Eventually, the two reach the top of the Skull Dome, just as Yamato, who has reverted back to normal, charges at Kaidou with Shinsoku Hakujaku. At the same time, Momonosuke starts to land as Luffy goes into Gear 4: Snakeman, and strikes Kaidou with Gomu Gomu no Jet Culverin. Both attacks end up hitting Kaidou as Luffy and Yamato greet each other, with Luffy thanking Yamato for keeping Kaidou busy. Kaidou recovers and turns into his dragon form, questioning how Luffy is still alive and who the new dragon is. Luffy yells to Kaidou that he won't die because he will be the Pirate King as Momonosuke introduces himself, surprising everyone as Kaidou tells Momonosuke that the world doesn't need another dragon.

The Fire Festival continues in the Flower Capital as Tenguyama Hitetsu thinks back to when Tama told him she was leaving to go help the alliance on Onigashima, despite Hitetsu's protests. He hopes for her safety, totally unaware that Onigashima had reached the Flower Capital but was being hidden by thick clouds.
On the roof of the Skull Dome, a Mary reports that Yamato is on the roof and in the sky, he sees two dragons, one of them being Kaidou, the other being Momonosuke, though he doesn't recognize him as such. Also, Luffy was riding Momonosuke, who the Mary calls an enemy. Yamato thinks to when Momonosuke told him that he wanted to become a monster like Kaidou to help Luffy just as Kaidou launches Bolo Breath at the two, which Momonosuke is barely able to dodge. Luffy then tells Momonosuke something before jumping into the air and striking Kaidou with Gomu Gomu no Elephant Gun, knocking him into the ground. Momonosuke thinks about Luffy's request, which was for him to bite Kaidou, and after thinking about the horrible things Kaidou had done to him, he gets the courage to bite down on Kaidou's body, causing him to howl in pain. Momonosuke tightens his grip on Kaidou as he asks him what he is doing, but while afraid, Momonosuke doesn't back down. Luffy then comes in and strikes Kaidou with a Haoshoku Haki-coated fist.
Meanwhile, in the Treasure Repository and outside the Skull Dome, Inuarashi and Nekomamushi have reverted back to normal, as the covered up clouds blocked out the moon. Luffy then calls Momonosuke, who was also heard by the samurai in the castle by the Mary, and points out that he just bit one of the Four Emperors. He asks if he is still afraid of anything after doing something so bold, and Momonosuke realizes he is no longer. Luffy then tells him to stop Onigashima in its tracks while he promises to beat Kaidou. The alliance and samurai react with happiness at the revelation that Momonosuke is still alive and cheer Luffy on, while Big Mom laughs at Luffy's claim and Kaidou still expresses disbelief at the idea of him still having a chance against him. Kaidou and Luffy then attack one another with their Haoshoku Haki, not even touching one another and causing the skies and the heavens to split apart.
As a result, the moon returns, allowing Inuarashi and Nekomamushi to regain their Sulong forms, and with their Oden Ittoryu: Inu Spire and Oden Ittoryu: Neko Niko Ban, they finally defeat Jack and Charlotte Perospero, respectively. Also, Kurozumi Orochi, who is shown to still be alive, reacts with shock at Jack's defeat before remembering he is no longer Kaidou's ally.

Following his victory, Nekomamushi covers his eyes to return to his normal form as Carrot hugs him in delight. He advises her and Wanda not to look at the moon or they will transform, just as he wonders how the skies parted and allowed the moon to return.
On the roof, Yamato and Momonosuke watch in awe at Luffy and Kaidou's clash, and Yamato and Momonosuke remember Oden writing about how Roger and Whitebeard's clash split the heavens. Down in the castle, everyone panics as rocks fall from the ceiling. Yamato also clutches his head in pain due to not being able to block Kaidou's attack by himself. Luffy calls to Yamato to help Momonosuke (who he still insults despite Momonosuke insisting he can't change on the dot), and Yamato agrees, jumping on Momonosuke's head. Kaidou refuses to let them go anywhere and charges for the both of them, as Yamato tries to encourage Momonosuke to get going, which he eventually does, with Yamato even blocking his father.
Luffy then wraps his legs around Kaidou's neck, and Yamato quickly realizes that Luffy wants a one-on-one with Kaidou, so with that, he and Momonosuke jump off Onigashima. As Momonosuke cries in fear of falling, Yamato tells Momonosuke to grab onto the clouds, because according to him, dragons don't actually fly; dragons create clouds to use as footholds to move through the sky. Momonosuke successfully conjures the flame clouds as Yamato destroys falling debris. That is when he realizes Onigashima is starting to crumble because Kaidou's powers are weakening, and his clouds are becoming unstable. Momonosuke tries to stop the island himself, but Yamato tells him it is useless, even though the two of them can see the Flower Capital from the air and it will be over the people's head in under five minutes. Yamato then tells Momonosuke that if he wants to stop the island, he will have to conjure flame clouds stronger than Kaidou's, which Momonosuke sees as impossible since he is still new to his form and doesn't even know if he has the same powers as Kaidou. Yamato tells him that he will have to take a chance and hope for the best, because according to him, if the island drops, everyone in the Flower Capital will be crushed, and on top of that, Onigashima is filled with tons of weapons and gunpowder, which makes it practically a giant bomb. Momonosuke panics and considers getting Luffy to stop fighting Kaidou, but Yamato smacks him on the head and reminds him that Luffy is already putting everything on his shoulders with his fight, and he doesn't need anymore pressure, meaning the two of them need to figure out how to stop the island themselves.
Down in the castle, King, who has gone into his hybrid form, is unleashing wind slashes far and wide and attacking friend and foe alike. Zoro tries to block his attacks but ends up getting thrown through the castle, though he is thankfully caught by Franky. Franky offers to help Zoro fight King but Zoro declines. As for the Beasts Pirates, several of them realize that the reason King got so angry is because Zoro cracked part of his mask, and no one has ever seen King's actual face. King makes his way outside and charges straight for Zoro with his Tankyudon while Zoro tries blocking it with Ul-Tora Gari. King wins and blows Zoro out of the castle, leaving him dangling in the air. Zoro uses Nitoryu: Clear Lance to save himself from falling and the two land outside on the island. Zoro angrily tells King he should have used his sword to kill him, demanding that much respect. King, however, tells Zoro that he should too for breaking his mask.

In the Visitor's Reception room, Guernica is informing Rob Lucci over a Den Den Mushi that another dragon appeared resembling Kaidou and is fighting him alongside Luffy, and also its appearance matches the Devil Fruit Dr. Vegapunk made. Lucci disregards this discovery, prompting Guernica to angrily inquire about Lucci's reason for calling. Lucci informs him that they received orders from the higher ups saying that if Kaidou is defeated, they are to immediately move into Wano and annex it to the World Government, and several ships are on their way right now. Even though the numbers between the two forces have gone down to 12,000 vs. 8,000, the CP0 agents do not believe Kaidou will be defeated. Lucci then informs Guernica that they have received another order: the immediate capture of Nico Robin, regardless of the outcome of the battle. Robin has woken up again and, alongside Brook, is fighting back the Beasts Pirates.
In the skies of Wano, Onigashima has only five minutes before reaching the Flower Capital, and Yamato has split from Momonosuke, the reason being that he hopes to nullify the explosives in the castle to hopefully reduce the potential number of casualties. Though Momonosuke is upset that she left him like that, he steels himself and attempts to create Flame Clouds large enough to support the island, though to no avail. Yamato finally reaches the top of the island and turns into his full Mythical Zoan-form to head for the explosives, much to the Heart Pirates' surprise.
On the Live Floor, Queen is attacking Sanji with his Bry Pan move as Sanji tries to dodge. Sanji admits Queen is strong as he dodges a sword strike as Queen demands Sanji use his Raid Suit again, having seen him use it on King earlier. He knocks Sanji away but as he gets back up, he thinks about how his body is feeling weird. Nevertheless, he angrily refuses to put on the Raid Suit due to his hatred for the Vinsmoke Family, which he vocally makes known to Queen. Queen still fires his Black Coffee at Sanji but he dodges and strikes Queen with Diable Jambe: Bien Cuit: Grill Shot, burning his stomach and sending him flying back. Queen steadies himself and turns into his full Brachiosaurus form, as Sanji wonders how he can take down his insanely powerful foe.
Queen admits Sanji's attack was impressive and decides to fight him without his enhancements. To that, he straightens out his neck and tail and somehow, fires himself at Sanji by detaching his neck and tail from his torso, a move he calls Brachiojaurus. The Alliance and Sanji are left in complete shock at this bizarre attack as Queen wraps Sanji with his snake-like body and proceeds to squeeze him with Brachiotoguros. Queen tells Sanji that even the toughest of fighters have fallen to his attack, but considers letting him go if he shows him Germa's capabilities. Sanji once again refuses as Queen directs his attention to his separated torso, which has deployed two missile launchers on its side. Queen tells Sanji that his Brachio Launchers respond by voice command, but before he can give them the order to fire, the missiles accidently misfire and hit Queen instead.
Queen realizes the missiles fired because he said the words "Brachio Launchers" during his explanation, which he tries to explain to his torso, only for him to say the words again and causing the missiles to misfire again and hit him again. Annoyed by this, Queen decides to reform with his torso and drops Sanji, justifying that he won't survive from his crushing coil. A nervous Chopper calls to Sanji only to see him get back up on his feet, still able to move yet with all his bones broken. Sanji's body snaps back into place and he begins to fear that he has awakened the same enhancements as his siblings.
Sanji becomes enraged by this supposed power up due to fearing he will become inhumane like his brothers, but as he thinks that, Queen, who has returned to his hybrid form, tries to strike Sanji with his sword, but only ends up shattering it against his head with Sanji only feeling minor pain.

The Beasts Pirates react with shock and confusion when they witness Queen's sword shatter after hitting Sanji's neck. Several of them doubt he used Busoshoku Haki to protect himself, and Queen verifies that. As Sanji fixes himself up, Queen thinks back to when Vinsmoke Judge told him that he had wanted to make humans more durable, with accelerated healing, enhanced physical strength, and complete lack of emotions. Chopper is surprised Sanji survived Queen's attack, but Sanji starts to become afraid of the thought that he will become inhumane like his brothers. In response, Sanji immediately flees the Live Floor in the hopes that he can get some time to think about what is causing this new development, and if it continues, will he lose his emotions. Several Beasts Pirates shoot at him in his frenzy, but the bullets have no effect on him. Queen also starts chasing Sanji so he can see him use his Raid Suit.
On the second Floor, Big Mom is prevailing over Eustass Kid, who has fallen to his knees suffering from a headache. She prepares to strike him with Napoleon and Hera, but Law holds her back by using Counter Shock on her face. An enraged Prometheus uses Stollen Feuer on him to blow him away, and Big Mom gets the opening to jump into the air and slam the ground with her electrified homies in a move called Marma-Raid. She looks to see the downed pirates stand back up, as Kid tries to figure out what is the cause of these strange headaches. He tries to pull himself together as he doesn't want to die fighting an Emperor while Big Mom continues to laugh at him.
On the third floor, it is revealed that the cause of Kid's headaches is because Basil Hawkins, who linked his life to him with his Devil Fruit, is repeatedly slamming his head into a pillar and transferring the damage to him. Killer desperately pleads with Hawkins to stop, but Hawkins simply mocks him for eating a faulty SMILE. The rest of the Kid Pirates converge around Killer, but he refuses to let them aid him, despite them telling him that the fire within the castle is spreading. Killer asks Hawkins to release Kid and take him instead, but Hawkins kicks him as he says that Kid is probably fighting Big Mom, reminiscing how he wanted to supplant an Emperor. Hawkins reminds Killer that he can always cut him down with his scythes, but he doesn't mind if Killer surrendered, even willing to put a word in for him with Kaidou.
Hawkins tells Killer that he and the alliance have no chance of beating Kaidou or Big Mom, supporting his claim with the fact that they have ruled over the seas for so long because of how powerful they are. Killer, however, retorts that Hawkins is covering his own regret for siding with Kaidou because the alliance have been fighting against the odds he foresaw. Hawkins tells Killer that they will see who made the right decision when the battle concludes, and Killer stands back up. When he does, Killer asks Hawkins what will happen if he takes damage that has nowhere to go. Hawkins becomes confused by what Killer means since he should know how his powers work, but Killer swiftly cuts off Hawkin's left arm.
As Hawkins clutches his severed limb, he becomes confused as to why he took the damage, only for Killer to remind him that Kid doesn't have a left arm, and sure enough, with Kid, his mechanical arm falls off. As Killer holds Hawkins' arm, the straw doll emerges, and Hawkins confirms that that was his last one. He then draws the Straw Man's Card: Death, Upright, and conjures the Straw Man, who he sends to attack Killer. Killer, however, uses Zanshu Claw to destroy it. Hawkins claims the Straw Man can't die and will return, just as he draws another card to show himself the outcome of the battle. When he does, he sees, to his horror, that it is The Tower.
In an instant, Killer uses Jin Sonic to finish Hawkins as his crew cheers for him. As it turns out, The Tower signifies great change and an upheaval of the established order, and it also holds a hidden meaning where it indicates the opening of a new path. Sure enough, once Hawkins falls, Kid says he feels better now as Killer cheers him on.

Away from the battle, Scratchmen Apoo speaks with X Drake in the Cave Chamber, where three of the Numbers, Inbi, Fuga, and Zanki are eating. Apoo tells Drake that he has surmised that he is actually a Marine spy, but he considers that fact irrelevant to the proposal he is about to make. Apoo offers Drake an opportunity to team up with him and pick off the winner of this large battle, since neither one of them really belongs to either side. Drake asks if Apoo seriously believes he would trust him, but Apoo says "trust" has nothing to do with his proposal, since he considers it such a rare opportunity.
On the stairs between the first and second floors, Nami, Usopp, Tama, Speed, Gazelleman, Daifugo, and Hamlet carrying the injured Komachiyo are trying to flee the spreading fire. Nami and Usopp hear a scream and look, to their surprise, Kin'emon's lower half running around calling for help. Usopp grabs his legs but due to not having any ears, Kin'emon's lower half cannot hear Usopp and therefore cannot recognize him as an ally. Nami is able to verify by drawing the symbol of the crescent moon on him, and now that he has found someone, he informs them that Kikunojo needs help. After Usopp hears his request, he takes Hamlet along with Kin'emon's legs to the attic of the left tower.
Up in the attic, Kin'emon's upper half begs for Kikunojo to hold onto life for a little while longer until help arrives. He also thinks about how amazing it is that he is still alive even after Kaidou cut him in half, surmising that when Law reattached him, he did not do it properly. He then hears Orochi trying to contact Kanjuro, which surprises Kin'emon as he was positive he had been killed like Kanjuro was. However, Kanjuro weakly responds to him and informs him that he does not have much time left. Still, Orochi praises Kanjuro for his performance, but the praise he should be hearing himself is clouded by the rage and resentment of their ancestors beyond the grave. Orochi orders Kanjuro to use his Devil Fruit powers to paint the burning wrath of the Kurozumi Family and kill everyone in the castle. Kanjuro agrees and paints a fire monster called Kazenbo, before collapsing again. Kazenbo proceeds to move around the castle setting anyone it passes by on fire, as several observers report its presence and how it can even move through walls like a ghost.
Outside the island, Momonosuke decides to make as many tiny flame clouds as he can to keep Onigashima in the air, while elsewhere, Orochi, who has taken sanctuary, reveals that he knows about Kaidou's armory stocked with weapons, and he plans for Kanjuro's fire drawing to go to it and blow the island, thereby taking out everyone at once. He also hopes that Fukurokuju will return to him shortly so they can escape together. Unbeknownst to him though, Yamato is still making his way to the armory as he hopes for Momonosuke to slow the island down as much as he can.
All of a sudden though, she sees Eustass Kid fly through the air, having been blasted by Big Mom's Ikoku while also having his large robot body destroyed too. As he falls through the air, he remembers his conversation with Law, where they both revealed to each other that they have awakened their Devil Fruit powers, but because they use up a lot of energy, they can only use it as a trump card. In the present, Law creates a K-ROOM, a miniaturized version of his ROOM with which he covers his sword. He drives the sword through Big Mom's throat, though his incision is harmless. However, according to him, K-ROOM has other properties, and in this case, he unleashes a Shock Wille that zaps her entire insides, and actually causes her to bleed.
Big Mom turns to face Law in anger, but then Kid uses his awakened powers to Assign magnetism to Big Mom. This causes Napoleon to become stuck to her body while many other metallic weapons and steel beams inside become attracted to her, slamming into her as Law and Kid warp away.

The Beasts Pirates watch in awe at how Big Mom was crushed under tons of metal beams by Eustass Kid, even thinking she could not have survived it. Kid and Law are breathing heavily as Law makes note of the Jiki Jiki no Mi's awakened abilities allowing Kid the power to make others magnetic, but Kid refuses to divulge any more of his powers to him. Suddenly, a metal beam is thrown off the pile as Big Mom emerges from within. She then performs her Soul Pocus technique and asks, "Life or Oshiruko?" As the nearby Beasts Pirates fall under its effect due to the fact that they threw out so much of it earlier in the party, Big Mom extracts their souls and bestows them onto the metal beams, creating a new army of Homies. She then removes one year of her own lifespan and consumes it, causing her to grow even larger with her soul energy emanating from her eyes. She admits to Kid and Law that it has been decades since she last felt such pain, and like Luffy, they are serious about dethroning her. She then dares them to continue fighting, as she will show them what it means to be an emperor. Law confirms saying he wants to learn the true history, and Kid says that no matter the costs, he plans on taking her down.
Yamato, who has made it back into the castle, notices several enemies before him and decides to take a detour through the Cave Chamber. In the room, X Drake, who has rejected Scratchmen Apoo's proposal for an alliance, proceeds to attack him. Apoo tries to use his Devil Fruit powers against him but Drake dodges, as he reveals to Apoo that he knows that his attacks work by getting them to follow his line of sight when he wants his targets to hear them. Apoo, however, retorts that he has three Numbers backing him up, but just then, Yamato bursts in. Though confused by the two's presence, Apoo decides to take advantage of Yamato's conflict with his father and attempts to team up with him, but he tells Apoo he is not with the Beasts Pirates anymore (though that does not stop him). He briefly clashes with Drake to get him out of his way, but Drake quickly explains he has defected too. Still, he pushes him off and continues making his way to the weapons room. Fuga, however, decides to start chasing him, and Apoo, not wanting his next opportunity to disappear, tells Inbi and Zanki to follow him, but Drake refuses to let him get away.
On the second floor, Robin and Brook flee from CP0, while the Minks do their best to keep the agents at bay, with little success. Brook takes her in his arms and jumps off a ledge as Robin tries to understand why CP0 is in Wano. She also tells Brook that among the elites, the ones who wear masks are in a class of their own. Guernica then disappears.
In the Left-Brain Tower, Sanji finds himself at Black Maria's brothel, but all the women are hostile to him because apparently, he attacked one of them. They chase him away by throwing objects as a confused Sanji tries to figure out how would have attacked a woman since he vowed not to do so. He recalls how he denounced his cruel brothers for viciously attacked Cosette. At the same time, Queen catches up to him as Sanji realizes that the tingling sensation in his body has stopped. He then thinks to when he was running around deep in thought when he came across the girl from before, who tried to convince him that she was not with Kaidou, and how the next thing he knew, she was on the ground hurt and terrified of him. Convinced he was the one responsible, he asks himself who would Luffy prefer: the human Sanji who is useless against enemy women, or a "soldier of science" who is cruel and heartless and will do anything to complete his mission. Though he is not sure, he makes a decision regarding his Raid Suit. He pulls it out as Queen thinks he is finally going to put it on, but Sanji instead drops it on the ground and destroys it by stomping on it, decreeing that even though his latent abilities have been awakened by it, he refuses to lose any more of himself to Germa. Queen reacts with displeasure at no longer being able to see him transform as Sanji pulls out a Den Den Mushi.
He then contacts Zoro, who is deep in his battle with King, and wonders how he ended up with one. Sanji explains to him that he snuck it into his clothes in case he got lost and tells him that while he is confident they are going to win, if he loses his humanity afterwards, he wants him to kill him. Though a little confused, Zoro agrees to Sanji's terms, even adding he is looking forward to it, so he better not die before that, which Sanji thanks him for. He then immediately vanishes, which Queen wonders if that was another enhancement, but an already irate Sanji strikes Queen with Hell Memories, setting him ablaze.

In his full phoenix form, Marco is now carrying Izou to the top of the castle, though Marco is annoyed that Izou would ask such a thing from him when he himself is rather injured. Izou apologizes and says that the announcement about the "fire yokai" has left him concerned. Elsewhere, the samurai are preventing the Beasts Pirates from escaping, causing them to try and use cannons to blast through.
On the second floor, Fuga continues to chase Yamato, who reveals that he is actually acquainted with him. Scratchmen Apoo continues to try and team up with Yamato, while X Drake tries to stop him. Suddenly, Brook and Robin fall from the hole in the ceiling and land on Fuga's head. The two members of CP0 try to chase after them, but they both get caught by Kanjuro's Kazenbo and become engulfed in flames. Yamato sees that it has the power to move through the walls and quickly realizes it is heading for the armory, which will cause the island to explode in mid-air. With that in mind, he asks Fuga for something, with which the Number happily agrees.
After getting off Fuga's head, Brook and Robin resume running from CP0, who have recovered from their burns. Guernica notices that Apoo is taking pictures them, and the pirate declares that he might share his new story about the World Noble's "lapdogs" running around Onigashima doing deals with Kaidou after losing their "middleman" Doflamingo. Guernica tells Apoo that he should have stayed silent before stabbing him with Shigan and knocking him down. Drake is surprised by this turn of events as the agent informs Drake that CP0 knows of his true allegiance. Drake asks why they are on the island, but Guernica says that "inconvenient truths" are meant to be erased. Just then, Apoo recovers and uses Boom on the agent's face, knocking him back. Apoo gets back up as he reveals he used Busoshoku Haki to protect himself, while also stating that his belief that Drake was secretly a Marine was correct. Drake brushes that off and asks if Apoo will fight CP0 together with him, and he accepts.
Outside the castle, Zoro's fight with King continues. In his full pteranodon form, King grabs his crest and pulls his head back, which also pulls back his beak. In a move called Tempuraudon, he fires his head at Zoro, who could not block it, comparing it to a laser beam. King tells Zoro that that is how pteranodons hunted their prey. Still, Zoro gets back up and fires a Sanbyakurokuju Pound Ho at King, who easily dodges. King starts raining down fire as Zoro tries to dodge, and he asks if pteranodons had fire coming off their backs, to which King straight-up says no, irritating Zoro. Desperate to finish off King before running out of energy, Zoro unleashes Kojuko: O Tatsumaki, which entraps King, but King blocks it with his wings as the twister dissipates.
Zoro tells King that he considers dinosaurs and dragons to be the same: big lizards with thick hides. King tells him that he is not wrong but considers himself on another level. As he changes back to his human form, he brings his sword down on Zoro saying he is giving him a chance, and that he too enjoys a good duel. In his head, Zoro notes how not a single attack has caused King to drop any blood, and while he has movable wings in his human form, he has not seen him use them yet. He also knows now that the fire on his back does not come from his Devil Fruit, and deduces he is from a race he has never encountered before. As he gets overwhelmed and thrown into a rock, Zoro realizes he will never be able to defeat him unless he can figure out what kind of creature he is.
As he lays on the ground breathing heavily, Zoro hears a Shamisen playing which confuses him, and Enma starts drawing out his Haki again. In the Treasure Repository, where Orochi is hiding, he hears the Shamisen too from the next room and follows the sound. When he reaches the room, he sees, to his delight, Kozuki Hiyori in her "Komurasaki" identity. Believing his beloved oiran has returned to him, he approaches her hoping he isn't dreaming as "Komurasaki" tells him that she wants to spend the rest of her life with him.

Zoro demands Enma stop draining his Haki without his permission as he once again sucks it back into his arm. King moves in on Zoro but stops and stands before him, which confuses Zoro as to what King is trying to do. Still, Zoro plunges his sword into King's chest, which King says was a direct hit. Seconds later though, he explodes.
Back at the Pleasure Hall, Queen, who was blown back into several walls by Sanji's attack, makes his way back to him and tells him that he figured out he was talking to Zoro earlier, and how he believes he can't win against King. Queen then tells Sanji that King is part of the Lunarian Tribe, which were supposedly all eradicated despite the fact that according to him, they could survive in any inhospitable environment they found themselves in, which caused them to be referred to as "gods" in the ancient past. Sanji asks how beings like him could be wiped out, but Queen tells him to find out for himself as he prepares to fire another laser at him.
Returning to the outside of the castle, Zoro reveals that he used Busoshoku Haki to protect himself from King's explosion, and expresses disbelief as to how he remains unscathed after such an attack. He uses Ittoryu Iai: Shi Shishi Sonson, but King once again takes the hit with no damage as he changes back into his pteranodon form to fire another Tempuraudon attack. Zoro draws out his other swords, but Enma once again starts acting up, causing Zoro to get grazed by King's attack which also destroys a chunk of the island. Zoro starts falling while also dropping Sandai Kitetsu, though he quickly manages to reclaim it, while thinking back to how Tenguyama Hitetsu told him that he made it and when he first bought it in Loguetown. King then uses a flaming kick to knock Zoro back to the island while calling him crazy to risk his life over a sword. Zoro was grateful, however, to see that Wado Ichimonji didn't fall, as he thinks about when he acquired that sword too following the death of Kuina. He also remembers that Hitetsu told him that Wado Ichimonji was forged by the same person who made Enma: Shimotsuki Kozaburo. Zoro then asks the question he couldn't at the time: how did a sword from Wano end up in the East Blue? King attacks Zoro with Barizodon which Zoro blocks, though King's next attack with his wing launched Zoro down into the castle. He then remembers when Momonosuke told him that he wasn't allowed to say the word "Sunacchi," and how he told him that he picked it up from some "old geezer" in his village and how he never used it himself.
As he laid on the ground, Zoro remembered said geezer who sat by the shore whose name he never learned, and only found out he was Kuina's grandfather after he passed away. He also remembers when Hitetsu told him that Kozaburo left Wano illegally over fifty years ago. Zoro then flashes back to his childhood and how the old man told him what "Sunacchi" meant, and how he felt he would never use it. He then asks the old man if he was really a samurai like everyone in the dojo said he was, but the old man told him to be quiet lest the Marines find him, prompting an annoyed Zoro to leave him alone. Later, the old man saw Zoro training and complaining about how he lost to Kuina again, and he offers him two swords to train with for free. The old man then told Zoro how he considers each sword a unique person with their own personalities, and a swordsman is one who tames their wild natures and bends them to their own will. He also tells him that swords with names that people say are cursed aren't actually, that's just what weaker people say. He then told him that he crafted his magnum opus when he was young and how he named it after the "Lord of the Underworld" because of how fearsome it is.
It was upon this revelation that Zoro realizes the sword the old man was talking about was Enma, and as he pieces the puzzle together, he realizes as well that the old man was in fact Shimotsuki Kozaburo. He also remembers when he told him that blades wait patiently to find someone worthy to wield them, and Zoro sees that Enma has been testing him this whole time. Zoro picks up Enma and reabsorbs his energy and says that he hasn't been living up to its expectations, something Oden clearly did. Suddenly, several Beasts Pirates appear and ask King to let them handle him in hopes they get promoted, but they all pass out from Zoro's Haoshoku Haki as he decides to let Enma take his Haki. As Zoro stands before King with his three swords brimming with energy, King asks if Zoro plans on becoming a "king". Zoro confirms this as he says he promised his captain and best friend.

In the Left Brain Tower Pleasure Hall, the various geishas try to escape the battle between Sanji and Queen, except for the one who got hurt, O-Some, who has been looking for her pet mouse Chuji. Her colleagues tell her to prioritize herself and that they need to escape Onigashima, possibly even Wano itself. Meanwhile, Momonosuke manages to grab hold of Kaidou's flame clouds and decides that if he cannot push the island back, he can at least pull it away from the Flower Capital.
On the Live Floor, the samurai keep the Beasts Pirates from escaping, and in the Pleasure Hall, Queen unleashes an attack called Sparking Queen, and fires lasers from his eyes at Sanji, who jumps into the air to avoid. He realizes Queen's attack mimics Ichiji's Sparking Valkyrie, and then Queen uses an attack called Henry Queen, where he extends his mechanical neck at Sanji and grabs him with his mouth and badly electrocutes him, he sees it mimics Niji's Henry Blazer. As a hurt Sanji falls to the ground, Queen fires more lasers as he tries to dodge them all, Queen reveals that he wanted to show Sanji that he could replicate Germa 66's abilities after he put on the Raid Suit, and declares Judge's children to be the culmination of his scientific work. He also reveals to Sanji that he had desired to defeat Sanji while he wore the Raid Suit simply so he could prove to Judge that he was the superior mind, which annoys Sanji that he would force his feud with Judge onto him.
Queen then grabs Sanji with his mechanical claw and, similar to how Yonji uses Winch Danton, swings Sanji around with Winch Queen, causing great damage to Sanji by smashing him through walls and making him bleed. Eventually though, Sanji quickly destroys Queen's mechanical arm with a kick, thereby freeing him from his grip. As Queen recoils in anger, Sanji reminds him to not bring up his family in front of him before striking him with Diable Jambe: Flanchet Strike, which causes Queen to fall to his knees in pain. Sanji tells Queen that there is no way he did not feel his kick from before, and as this fight has long progressed, the both of them have been getting weaker and weaker throughout it all. Sanji, however, tells him that he found his resolve and accepted his fate, and that he is not the same person he was on the Live Floor.
Queen tells Sanji to show him that as he reveals that he can too turn invisible like Sanji's Raid Suit. Sanji admits Queen has a lot of tricks before vanishing again, and Queen realizes that Sanji is not turning invisible, but moving faster than the eye can see. Queen expects Sanji to reappear when he runs out of stamina just as O-Some finally finds Chuji. Queen sees her and reveals that he made her his "number one" after Komurasaki's apparent death, and he remembers that she had rejected his summons multiple times, even today by claiming she had a migraine. As he walks up to her while invisible, he declares that he will distribute more "divine punishment" to her.
Sanji, meanwhile, while in the air, realizes he has more tools at his disposal. By combining his exoskeleton with his Busoshoku Haki, he creates flames on his legs hotter than before, dubbing it as Ifrit Jambe. As he makes his way towards Queen, he comes to the realization that the one who hurt O-Some in that moment was Queen when he was invisible. Filled with rage, Sanji attacks Queen with Collier, slamming his head into the ground and making himself visible again, which O-Some sees. Sanji follows up with Basse Cote, and then Paleron, Jumeau a Bifteck, Tendron, Flanchet, Queue, Poire, Jarret, and finally, Boeuf Burst, causing a huge explosion and sending Queen flying backwards.

Sanji's last attack on Queen has defeated the All-Star, and he is literally sent flying far away from Onigashima like Sanji told him to. Sanji then approaches O-Some and presents her with Chuji, having kept him safe in his suit, which she thanks him greatly for. He thinks back to when he made food for a mouse as a child, but just as he is about to ask O-Some if she was okay, he immediately passes out, causing her to call for someone to get the first aid kit.
Down in the castle, Zoro has actually managed to injure King, and even cut open his mask, as Zoro reveals King's weakness: when the flames on King's back dwindle, he gets faster but his defense decreases. At that point, King takes off his mask completely, revealing his face for the first time. Several Beasts Pirates see him and mention how the rumors about him being a Lunarian were true, seeing how he has all the traits of one; dark brown skin, white hair, and of course, black wings. However, when one of them mentions how the World Government will pay 100,000,000 just for notifying them about a Lunarian, King uses Karyudon to incinerate them all.
Zoro gets to the high ground and calls out King for attacking his men when the castle is already on fire. Zoro then asks King what kind of race he is for the World Government to be so interested in him, but King responds by turning into his pteranodon form and telling Zoro that there was no point since he will die anyway. King flies straight at Zoro and the two of them return to fighting in the air. Zoro admits if this battle continues for too long, his sword will drain him dry, with King admitting he is reaching his limit too. Zoro tells King that he and his crew have spent enough time being on top, so it's time for a new generation to take hold, but King refuses, declaring that only Kaidou can be the Pirate King.
King then thinks back to his youth, and how he first met Kaidou. Back then, his name was "Alber" and was held captive on Punk Hazard, where he was being experimented on to test his endurance. Kaidou was also a prisoner there, but then escaped his cell and came across Alber strapped to a table. He deduced that Alber was a Lunarian, and that the Government would never let him go. He then stated his plan to leave and form his own pirate crew, and asks if Alber wanted to join him. In response, Alber asks if Kaidou can change the world, to which the soon-to-be emperor confidently stated that only he can do so. The two then escape after setting the facility ablaze. Kaidou then asked the young Lunarian for his name, and when he answered, Kaidou stated that needs a new name that reflects his strength, and thus rechristens him as "King". Kaidou also says that from now on, King is his right-hand-man, promising to never sell him out.
Zoro uses En-Oo Santoryu: Rengoku Oni Giri, but King is unfazed as his flames were burning bright again. King uses Karyudon to generate a dragon made of fire, hot enough that Zoro compares it to the heat of magma. King locks blades with him and tries to use the notches in his sword to steal them, but Zoro backs away before he can. King then moves at rapid speed, and though he kicks Zoro in the face, Zoro uses Yakkodori to cut him again. King admits that Zoro has deduced his weakness, and Zoro realizes that King is now blocking his attacks because he is scared of them now. King jumps back into the air declaring that a simple human can't beat him as he unleashes Omori Karyudon, but Zoro uses a new attack called En-Oo Santoryu: Ippyakusanjo Hiryu Jigoku to not only cut through King's dragon, but cut him along with his sword and part of his right wing.

As King falls after getting slashed by Zoro, he thinks back to when he told Kaidou he believed he was "Joy Boy" and how he asked him to keep being the strongest while he himself makes sure he never loses until he becomes the Pirate King, though this is before he falls unconscious as he falls off the island. Meanwhile, Zoro reminisces on the moment where he promises to Luffy that he until he defeats Mihawk, he will never lose to anyone again. He also declares that if it is what it takes to keep from losing, he shall become the "King of Hell". He then uses the force from his swords to launch himself back onto the island before also passing out from exhaustion.
A flying Mary relays the information to the Mary with the CP0 agent Joseph, who reacts with surprise that all three All Stars and all members of the Tobiroppo have fallen, but he says those victories are meaningless unless Kaidou and Big Mom are defeated. As the events unfold though, it is shown that if Luffy does defeat Kaidou, the flame clouds holding up Onigashima will dissipate and the island will crash onto the Flower Capital and blow up from the gunpowder cache. The people are still blissfully unaware of this transpiring as Momonosuke continues to try to pull the island away. The other problem is that Kanjuro's Kazenbo is making its way to the gunpowder cache and threatens to blow the island up in the air. Thankfully, Yamato has finally reached the cache first, but as he expected, the last of the Numbers, Rokki, is standing guard at the gate. Yamato knew he did not have the time to get the key from him, so he tells Fuga to knock him down, which he does, pushing down the gate and allowing Yamato to pass. He thanks Fuga and asks him to keep Rokki busy, which Fuga does.
Up in the attic between the first and second floors, Usopp has found Kin'emon and Kikunojo, but is under heavy assault from the Beasts Pirates. Both samurai plead with Usopp to abandon them, but Usopp refuses. He tells the two of them that he could never understand the samurai's obsession with honor and dying with it, saying that he himself will fight for his life no matter how pathetic he may look, and that it is not just fighting the raid they have to do, it is live too. The samurai are touched and take this to heart, and at that point, Usopp was getting overwhelmed. Thankfully, he is rescued by Izou, who commends his words. He shows off the mark of the Kozuki Family on his back as he tells the two samurai to keep believing in Luffy and live on. Usopp and Hamlet pick up Kin'emon and Kikunojo and run off to get them medical aid.
On the third floor, both Raizo and Fukurokuju have trapped themselves in each other's binding techniques. Raizo, however, has caught fire, but he refuses to give in. In the Treasure Repository, Orochi continues listening to "Komurasaki"'s song while waiting for Fukurokuju to show up, and in the second basement, Scratchmen Apoo is fleeing with Inbi, as both Zanki and X Drake have been defeated by the CP0 agents. Joseph contacts them and asks for a status update on the capture of Nico Robin before informing them of the All-Star's defeats and that they need to flee the island quickly. The agent also says that while the chances of the alliance winning are still slim, they need to be prepared for if they win, because that will direct where the world goes afterwards. Meanwhile, Sanji is being treated by an unknown person, and Killer and Bepo are continuing to fight off the Beasts Pirates.
On top of the Skull Dome, Luffy and Kaidou continue to fight, and while Luffy is struck by Kaidou's club, he manages to sock him with Gomu Gomu no Roc Gun. Both fall to the ground and get back up laughing, as they both confess they are having a lot of fun.

The Fire Festival in the Flower Capital starts coming to a close, with several people writing wishes onto Sky Ships to set afloat in the sky.
Little do the people actually know, Onigashima is still making its way to the capital, and up on the roof of the Skull Dome, Kaidou has returned to his human form and started drinking, much to Luffy's annoyance. Kaidou tells Luffy that he's drinking because he's having fun and reminds him of the banquet they were originally having before they ruined it. After Kaidou finishes drinking, he goes into Warai Jogo mode, and Luffy, while still annoyed, charges at him hoping he doesn't use getting drunk as an excuse if he loses. Kaidou, however, clarifies that he drank because it will make him stronger, as he has finally acknowledged his power.
In his drunken state, Kaidou dodges an attack from Luffy and counters with Shuron Hakke and Warai Jogo: Ragnaraku, changing back into his Human-Beast Form and slamming Luffy into the ground, with chunks of roof falling onto the people still inside the castle. Luffy clutches his head in pain as Kaidou becomes a dragon and also goes into Ochikomi Jogo mode, lamenting how half the castle and island are destroyed because of his inability to protect it, and how it may take another five years to rebuild everything. Luffy charges at him again but Kaidou uses Tatsumaki Kaifu to blow him back, just as he goes into his Human-Beast Form and Naki Jogo mode and attacks Luffy with Raimei Hakke, but Luffy dodges it and kicks him square in the face with a Haoshoku Haki-coated foot.
Though he draws blood, Kaidou suddenly grabs Luffy with his tail and brings him forward to his face as they both headbutt each other with Haoshoku Haki, but Luffy is overwhelmed and blown back as he admits Kaidou's Haki is growing stronger. Kaidou then goes into Okori Jogo mode and gets mad at Luffy for starting to sober him up and fires a blast of energy at him, but Luffy dodges, and he charges at him with Gomu Gomu no Roc Gatling while Kaidou counters with Gundari Ryuseigun. Both attacks clash and both Luffy and Kaidou do get hit by each other's attacks, but Luffy manages to strike Kaidou square in the stomach.
In the Holy Land Mary Geoise, the Five Elders complain about the Levely but change topics to the battle in Wano and how Nico Robin should have been captured or killed at this time, and how they need to act now. Surrounding Wano, the World Government ships see a giant shadow with some believing it to be an island. As it turns out, it is the giant elephant Zunesha that carries the mink's island home. This concerns the Five Elders as according to them, "that" Devil Fruit hasn't awakened in centuries and should only be a legend, as one of them points out that the World Government gave it a specific name to hide its existence from the annals of history.

On the third floor, both Raizo and Fukurokuju have caught fire, though the former is burning more than the latter. Fukurokuju demands Raizo release him or they will both die, but Raizo stands his ground.
On the second floor, the samurai try to flee from the burning castle, just as part of the ceiling comes down. Thankfully, Jinbe protects them, and as they escape, Jinbe wonders how the fire is spreading so fast. On the Live Floor, Chopper's side effects finally wear off, and he returns to normal, much to Tristan and Miyagi's relief. Chopper, however, expresses more concern over Zoro since the super medicine he was given earlier would make him feel even more pain when they wore off. He begs for Zoro not to die, though Zoro wakes up and notices what appears to be the grim reaper preparing to slay him, and he himself cannot move at all. Thankfully, Franky is making his way to his position.
In the First Floor attic, Izou has defeated the Beasts Pirates but sustained injuries himself. His attention is turned, however, to the presence of the CP0 agents. Guernica admits that while they cannot technically ignore a former member of the Whitebeard Pirates, their priorities are the Straw Hat Pirates and decide to leave him alone. Izou, however, refuses to let them out of his sight.
In the Basement Armory, Yamato has reached it, but so has Kanjuro's Kazenbo. Yamato uses Namuji Hyoga to freeze the explosives with ice but the Kazenbo starts melting it. Yamato uses Mahobora to hurt it, and it manifests a hand and slathers Yamato with its fire.
On the Live Floor, Kid and Law are on the ground defeated by Big Mom, while their respective crews plead with her to show mercy. Big Mom, however, laughs at the patheticness of their begging and uses Tenman Daijizai Tenjin to defeat the two crews. Afterwards, she decides to ride Hera back up to the roof to help Kaidou finish Luffy, having deduced they were still fighting for so long. But before she can go, Law once again uses K-ROOM: Anesthesia to extend his sword and pierce Big Mom through her arm and head. He then uses Shock Wille again to electrocute her and make her bleed again. All the metal Homies try to attack Law in retribution but they are pulled towards Kid, who manages to get back up again. He forms a giant bull with the metal and rams into Big Mom with Punk Corna Dio, slamming her into a wall. He also says to her that he believes Kaidou is reaching his limit, comparing him and her to a mountain that gets worn down by the rain, meaning that both Emperors have no doubt been taking a lot of damage from these fights. Kid and Law then proclaim that no matter what and even if they die, they will not let her reach the roof.

Momonosuke continues to try and pull Onigashima away from the Flower Capital, just as he hears a voice call to him.
On the Live Floor of the castle, the Beasts Pirates react in horror over witnessing Big Mom getting rammed by Eustass Kid's giant metal bull, while his crew, and Law's crew cheer them on. Law jumps onto Kid's bull and tells him that that was the second time he waited for Law to use his finishing move before moving in with his own, as if he was trying to take credit for her injuries. Kid tells him that his petty view of being his "opening act" is extremely pointless, but Law tells him to go first next time, only for Kid to tell him not to give him orders, and that if he did use his trump card, there won't be anything left of her, to which Law tries to figure out what Kid's final move would be with Kid refusing to tell.
As they argue, Big Mom gets back up on her feet, with her right arm clearly broken, with her even admitting Law's powers are dangerous for breaking some of her ribs. She uses her powers to bestow souls onto her bones, restoring them. Law then tells Kid that he will be out of energy when he uses his next attack, so he will have to finish things himself, only for Kid to remind him not to boss him around. Big Mom performs her Maser Saber combination attack and slices through Kid's bull, but since he made it from scrap connected by magnetism, he isn't concerned about it's condition since he can put it back together. Big Mom tells the two of them that they need to quit dreaming that they could dethrone her since they've ruled over the seas for decades, but Kid jumps off the bull and assigns a south pole to her forehead and a north pole to the wall behind her, causing her to get pulled back to it unable to move.
Kid then has the bull charge at Big Mom again, but she uses the wall itself to block the attack. She then generates an attack called Bahoho: Misery, creating a huge woman out of fire and lightning that smacks Kid to the ground. However, Law uses his Devil Fruit powers to warp a tower over her head, crushing her and knocking her on her back. Law then coats his sword with K-ROOM again and stabs her through the chest, only this time, he makes the sword super long; long enough to pierce straight through the floating island and all the way down to Wano's surface, which Yamato observes. Big Mom starts pummeling Law to force him to release her, but he holds on and drives his sword even deeper, using a powerful attack called Puncture Wille, causing Big Mom to howl in pain as his attack makes a hole both in the island and on Wano, which even Momonosuke sees.
Big Mom has Misery aim its attention at Law, but before it could strike him, Kid appears in the air with his trump card: a railgun made of the scrap metal to channel his electromagnetic energy. He uses Damned Punk to fire a huge blast of energy at Big Mom that hits her right in the chest, as Law declares her era is over.

Eustass Kid tries to blast Big Mom into the large hole Law made with his last attack, but Big Mom soon starts resisting the impact of the blast and grips the edge of the hole to keep herself from moving. She then uses her Soul Pocus move again, saying that after Kid's attack finishes, everyone present can either give her fifty years of their lifespans or become her slaves. Both crews start panicking, including the Beasts Pirates, but while Kid and Law's crews want to run away, both Kid and Law, surprisingly, are not affected by Big Mom's Soul Pocus, the reason being that they aren't afraid of her.
Law creates a miniaturized Room called R-ROOM that he launches at Big Mom, which cancels out all sound within it in homage to the late Donquixote Rosinante's Nagi Nagi no Mi powers. At the same time, Misery tries to attack Law, but he easily destroys it with his sword. With Big Mom's voice no longer reaching anyone to steal their souls, Kid fires another Damned Punk, successfully blasting her down the hole, with neither Prometheus nor Hera being able to come to her aid.
She ends up getting blasted down into the armory where she ends up punching one of the bombs Yamato froze, which causes her pain and also damages Kazenbo, causing it to shrink. Yamato manages to create a wall of ice to protect himself and the other frozen bombs, but the explosion destroys the lower part of Onigashima causing Big Mom to fall with several other explosives. As she falls, she mentally curses Roger for instigating the "Great Pirate Era" when it had no impact on him since he was about to die, and because of that, there are tons of young upstarts trying to claim the heads of the Emperors. She says that he could have at least told them about One Piece; if it was real, where is it, what it is, and if some of it could be "found" in Wano. The explosives hit the hole and cause another massive explosion to occur, before Big Mom is engulfed in the blast, she curses Law and Kid for this and claims she will not die from this, and Law uses the silent Room to block the sound of the explosion. Law and Kid are announced the victors of the battle and their respective crews cheer for them.
As a result of the earlier explosion, everyone across the island feels the impact, with Zoro starting to fall off the island himself. Fukurokuju also falls over desperately begging for some water, while Raizo stands his ground. Momonosuke asks Yamato if the explosion came from the basement, which he confirms, also saying he froze the other bombs. Momonosuke then tells Yamato that Zunesha, the elephant that carriers Zou on its back, is getting closer to the mainland. Yamato asks if this Zunesha is the same one Oden mentioned in his journal, and Momonosuke confirms, also saying that it was once Joy Boy's companion when it committed a crime 800 years ago.

Momonosuke tells Yamato that he spoke with Zunesha briefly and learned that the giant elephant has come to aid him in the battle. Yamato reacts with amazement and tells Momonosuke that he must be the one who will lead the world to its dawn like his father predicted, but while Momonosuke acknowledges he cannot die in this fight, he reveals that Oden tore out the most crucial pages of his journey, specifically what he and Roger found on Laugh Tale so long ago. Momonosuke then tells Yamato that he does not consider himself as wise as his father, and when he thinks about all the potential dangers of the outside world, it makes him want to keep Wano's borders shut rather than open them like he wanted, prompting him to ask Yamato if he thinks him a coward for thinking that.
On the third floor of the castle's interior, Fukurokuju has fallen unconscious from the flames, releasing Raizo from his binding technique and declaring him the victor. Once freed, Raizo starts rolling around in an attempt to put out the fire just as Jinbe comes across him. Raizo tells Jinbe that the two of them must move quickly for the "preparations" are almost complete. In the Treasury on the second floor, Orochi starts growing impatient with Fukurokuju, with not even "Komurasaki"'s music being able to calm him down. He starts demanding she take off her mask so he can see if she is real or a ghost, but some of the ceiling crashes down on him. While trapped under the debris, Orochi realizes he cannot transform, with "Komurasaki" revealing it was because she stuck a Seastone nail in him while she was playing. Orochi is outraged by her action as he asks her if she loved him, but she coldly replies that she bears no love towards him. She then tells him that it is poetic that his favorite song is "Moon Princess" which was her father's favorite too. It is then that Hiyori reveals her true identity to a horrified Orochi, and that she wore the mask so she could avoid smiling for him while playing it.
In the castle basement, Izou has taken down one of the CP0 agents, named Maha, though he goes down as well. The other agent, Guernica, is injured but still conscious and curses Izou for taking down one of them with him like he planned and for helping a couple of "upstarts". The agent then gets a call and is told that by the orders of the Five Elders, he is to kill Luffy immediately. The agent reacts with outrage that he would be told to interfere with his fight with Kaidou, but the agent on the other end tells him that it is a necessary precaution because of the nature of the battle. Unbeknownst to him, X Drake has woken up and tracked him down, determined not to go down empty handed.
Elsewhere in the basement, Usopp is rushing Kin'emon and Kikunojo to safety while Nekomamushi, Wanda, and Carrot head back inside the castle. Franky is also able to catch Zoro and keep him from falling off the island, though he is unsure if he is alive. And down in the Beasts Pirates' bath, Nami is hiding with Tama and her animals, who are being treated by Marco. Nami deduces from the shockwave she felt that Law had defeated Big Mom, which Zeus cries for before Nami reminds him of who his new master is. As for Law and Kid's crews, they continue cheering for their captain's victory, but the two are too exhausted to fight Kaidou, leaving it all truly up to Luffy.
On the roof, after Luffy and Kaidou's clash, Kaidou deduces based on the shockwave that Big Mom had been beaten by Kid and Law, which Luffy praises the two of them for. He thinks back to the day he first met her on Rock's crew, and after going into his Naki Jogo mode again, sobs uncontrollably over the fact that they just teamed up to get the One Piece together. Luffy, however, goes into Gear 4: Snakeman, and uses Gomu Gomu no Hydra to strike Kaidou in multiple places. Luffy screams that his dreams starved the people of Wano, and with all the energy he has, he is going to make sure he will never come back to Wano.

X Drake has stabbed the CP0 agent Guernica from behind. As he coughs up blood, the agent asks Drake why he is interfering with him, and Drake answers that it is because he follows his own justice. Guernica tells Drake he envies him before using Shigan on his throat to break free.
In the Flower Capital, the people are writing wishes and setting them adrift in the sky in their sky lanterns, while on the roof of Onigashima, Kaidou is continuously pummeled by Luffy's attack, and when he blocks one punch, he gets hit in three more spots. He admits his attacks are hurting him as he realizes that Luffy is altering the trajectory of his punches at whim. He once again tells him his attacks hurt as he goes into Amae Jogo, which angers Luffy at the fact that he is still drunk. Kaidou then goes into Nusubito Jogo mode and transforms into his full dragon form to finally escape Luffy's onslaught, where he then bites and swallows Luffy. Kaidou flies up into the air and once he is high enough, he opens his mouth, letting Luffy fall, but also firing Bolo Breath at him, the attack piercing straight through the island and blowing Luffy down through the hole.
Luffy, however, escapes the blast and changes into Boundman to fly back up to him. He declares that this is his last Gear 4, and he no longer has any time to waste to beat him. He yells to Kaidou that the people of Wano will continue to starve and go thirsty as long as he remains just as he prepares to use the move Gomu Gomu no Over Kong Gun. As for Kaidou, he tells Luffy that while it is his business who he teams up with, he personally considers the people of Wano weak and used to defeat, citing the samurai as "losers" who would willingly die for the sake of "honor". Luffy retorts that the samurai are strong, but Kaidou rejects this notion as he prepares another Bolo Breath, but Luffy fires his attack first causing Kaidou to misfire in his mouth and crash to the ground.
Luffy charges at him again but Kaidou quickly gets back up and hits him with Horai Hakke, causing Luffy to crash. Steam starts to eject from his mouth, but Luffy tries to force it in as Kaidou goes into his Satsuriku Jogo mode. Both charge at each other once again with Gomu Gomu no Over Kong Gun and Horai Hakke, but Guernica finally arrives and grabs Luffy's arm, using Tekkai in the process to hold him back. Though Kaidou sees the agent too, he is unable to stop himself from striking Luffy while the agent steps back, causing Kaidou to flashback to when Oden was distracted by Kurozumi Higurashi during their fight, as a look of horror is shown in his eyes.

Kaidou's attack causes Luffy's Gear 4 to finally wear off, and as he returns to normal, he lands on the ground unconscious once again, with Momonosuke even realizing he cannot hear Luffy's "voice" anymore. Though Kaidou was named the victor, he was livid that history repeated itself again, with him achieving victory due to another person's interference. Kaidou walks over to Guernica and asks if he is prepared to face the consequences for his actions. The CP0 agent says nothing as Kaidou brings Hassaikai down onto him, with Joseph silently acknowledging his fellow agent's fate.
Kawamatsu orders the samurai to find a way to escape the burning castle as there is no way they can put out the fires, and he sees no honor in burning alive. Just then, Kaidou descends to the castle in his dragon form declaring to the samurai that Luffy is dead and to make Momonosuke to step forward and surrender to him. The Beasts Pirates cheer for Kaidou's victory while the samurai despair, with even Kid and Law acknowledging this bitter turn of events. While those like Chopper and Tama cry for the loss of Luffy, Nami refuses to believe Kaidou's words, even revealing herself to him to say so. He fires a Bolo Breath at her but Marco blocks it while yelling for everyone not to give up until it is over.
Kaidou then declares that Onigashima will still drop on the Flower Capital, and unlike Orochi, he is going to put everyone who lives in Wano to work to produce weapons, as that is all he sees Wano is; a source of cheap, free, and replaceable labor. His words cause the samurai's morale to waver as he once demands Momonosuke presents himself, while the Beasts Pirates decide to take out Law and Kid only to be held back by their respective groups. Carrot and Nekomamushi decide to rejoin the fight, while Kid and Law force themselves to stand back up as opposed to letting Kaidou kill them both.
As for Momonosuke, he decides that surrendering might be the best option for everyone if Luffy cannot beat him anymore, but Yamato retorts that even if surrendering may save everyone present, eventually they will all die from exhaustion as Kaidou's slaves, and because of that, he will not stop fighting, even claiming that Kaidou is at his limit too. He also reminds Momonosuke that this battle carries 20 years worth of weight on the people of Wano, so with that, he would rather die with him than surrender. Momonosuke accepts his words, and the battle rages on, with him stopping pulling the island away to join in the fight.
Suddenly, Zunesha speaks to Momonosuke and tells him that it can hear the "Drums of Liberation" for the first time in 800 years, and proclaims that Joy Boy has returned, just as Luffy starts to smile and steam starts coming out of his mouth while an unknown substance starts to envelope him.

As Luffy's heartbeat beats like a drum, he wonders how is able to stand despite having lost his fight with Kaidou, and also why he feels like he's having so much fun. Momonosuke, meanwhile, has told Yamato what Zunesha told him: Luffy is Joy Boy.
In the Pleasure Hall's right brain tower, the sound of Luffy's heartbeat wakes Sanji, who immediately calls Luffy's name. All throughout the castle, people hear Luffy's heartbeat, with some of them, like Nami and Tama, crying tears of joy that he's still alive. In the Holy Land of Mary Geoise, meanwhile, the Five Elders wonder if sacrificing one of their best agents was the right call considering it only enraged Kaidou, but they decide it's for the best to snuff out something so "problematic." The elders reveal that for 800 years since the World Government's founding, they've been trying to get ahold of the Gomu Gomu no Mi, but somehow, it keeps avoiding them, like it has a mind of its own. That's when they reveal the truth: The Gomu Gomu no Mi is actually a Mythical Zoan Devil Fruit called the "Hito Hito no Mi, Model: Nika"! According to them, this Devil Fruit gives one the properties of rubber in combat only limited by the user's imagination, and the user brings smiles to people far and wide; the embodiment of "the Warrior of Liberation." Awakening it, however, is said to strengthen their rubbery body exponentially and grant them more freedom to god-like levels, causing them to declare the Devil Fruit to be the most ridiculously powerful thing in the world.
In the Treasure Repository, Orochi tries to plead for Hiyori to save him, claiming he always respected Oden and that he was just Kaidou's pawn the whole time. Hiyori, however, reminds him of how he and Kaidou both fooled Oden into making a fool of himself for five years on the empty promise of leaving and how he expected him and Kaidou to keep their word of sparing him during his execution. Even though she saw him smile, she felt he was suffering the whole time shouldering the burden of saving Wano from him, even thinking back to when he told her he was alright about what others said about him because he had his family. Orochi once again tries to appeal to Hiyori by saying he will acknowledge Oden's legacy, but Hiyori discards her mask and demands he shut up, proudly calling out her name with tears in her eyes. She stands before the horrified Orochi and declares she was always proud to carry her father's name while denouncing him as nothing but an honorless wretch who killed people every day, he was shogun. Orochi desperately begs her to spare him just as Kanjuro's Kazenbo appears, still shrunken. Orochi demands Kazenbo kill Hiyori, but the weak painting accidently touches him and sets him ablaze as Hiyori watches.
On the rooftop, Luffy says he can keep fighting longer now, and declares his new form "Gear 5".
With his new form, Luffy emits a huge blast of Haoshoku Haki, knocking out several Beasts Pirates, before enlarging his hand and grabbing Kaidou's entire dragon form and dragging him back up to the rooftop. He then tightly wraps his arm around his body and swings him around before slamming him back and forth on the surface. Kaidou eventually recovers and admits he's glad Luffy is still alive before firing Bolo Breath at him. Luffy, however, grabs the ground and makes it rubber, deflecting the fire back at him. Though hit by his own attack, Kaidou recovers and apologizes for CP0 sabotaging their fight, but Luffy accepts his apology and prepares to finish his fight with him.

With their battle now resumed, Kaidou states that he was sure Luffy had died, to which the latter agrees. He watches Luffy bounce off the ground repeatedly and deduces that he has awakened his Paramecia Devil Fruit since he is able to turn his surroundings into rubber. However, he notes that something does not add up, as Luffy's transformation should be more reminiscent of a Zoan user. Kaidou lunges at Luffy and attempts to devour him, but Luffy bounces around his insides before using Gomu Gomu no Fusen to expand not only his body, but Kaidou's as well. Yamato and Momonosuke, who are watching the battle from a distance, are confused by what they are seeing, wondering if Kaidou getting fatter was just one of his forms. While Kaidou becomes frustrated at his body gaining the properties of rubber, Luffy sees two lights from inside him, which turn out to be his eyes, and grabs through them to latch onto his nose before using Gomu Gomu no Dasshutsu Rocket to free himself from Kaidou's body. He then begins to deflate, which sends him flying into the clouds, and reemerges the size of a giant by using Gomu Gomu no Gigant, much to everyone's astonishment. Kaidou once again bites Luffy, but the latter, taking advantage of his size and Kaidou's serpentine form, uses Gomu Gomu no Nawatobi to use Kaidou's body as a jump rope.
As they descend back towards the rooftop, Kaidou fires another Bolo Breath at Luffy, which hits him directly and causes him to fall again. However, Luffy becomes frustrated and begins spinning his legs so fast that he is able to run across the air to return to the rooftop. As he prepares another attack, Kaidou strikes him with Kosanze Ragnaraku, sending Luffy's head crashing through the ground and to the lower floors, much to everyone's shock. He pulls himself back up to the roof and begins to revert back to normal, showing that he becomes extremely fatigued and visibly ages after using Gear 5. Kaidou assures him that he can die, and someone will share the story of his fight, but Luffy refuses, stating that all that is left after dying is bones. Yamato and Momonosuke see that is really is Luffy, but his hair and clothes turning white made him hard to recognize.
As he prepares to reactivate Gear 5, Luffy reminds himself of several people he has made promises to or is indebted to, such as Momonosuke, Tama, Kin'emon, and Pedro. Kaidou tells Luffy to be careful or he will die, but Luffy refuses to be afraid of death and tells his heart to start beating louder, allowing him to reactivate Gear 5. He is suddenly struck again by Kaidou's Hassaikai, but this time his head wraps around the weapon and its spikes, causing it to take on a crescent shape. He begins running away in pain, but another blow from Kaidou squashes him to the ground. Luffy uses the ground as a springboard to launch himself back up and towards a rock formation, which he once again launches himself off of to return to his normal size. Kaidou, still trying to make sense of Luffy's new fighting style, watches as Luffy approaches him with his arms spinning like helicopter blades. Luffy strikes Kaidou with a punch that seemingly goes through his head before knocking him to the ground, while remarking on how fun this is.

Luffy ponders what to call his latest attack as Kaidou picks himself back up. He asks Luffy who he is, just as Zunesha reminisces how familiar Luffy's drum-like heartbeat feels, and comfortably reassures him that they can put their trust in him, while Luffy proclaims his name and declares himself the man who will surpass him and become the Pirate King. Kaidou remarks how cheeky Luffy still sounds and tells him that it's because of his Awakening. He also acknowledges how much he's lost during this war, though feels Luffy has lost a lot too, but Luffy retorts he will take everything back that he stole. Kaidou uses Gundari Ryuseigun on Luffy while Luffy retaliates with several punches that extend through his body. Kaidou then notices that fumes have reached the top, and realizes the entire castle has caught fire, which means the alliance will burn to death, but Luffy confidently assures he can trust them to handle the situation just as he dodges a Kaifu attack.
On the Live Floor, everyone desperately tries to escape the fire as Chopper reunites with Nami, who tells her that he can't find the rest of the crew, and with the giant fire, they can't go anywhere, not even Zeus can put out the fire. Several turncoat Gifters are trapped in the basement castle interior, and on the first floor, Bepo has passed out from the heat, causing his crew to carry him. Brook, Robin, and several other samurai are trapped in the basement, and Sanji, who's trying to help the geishas, can't get them out of the Pleasure Hall. Elsewhere, Inbi burns his hand trying to break down a wall only for Scratchmen Apoo to retort for him to suck it up, irritating the Number.
Usopp tries to use Midori Boshi: Sprinkler to put out the fire, but the plant gets consumed by the flames. Hamlet tells him that he's just wasting his energy but Usopp retorts that he feels he needs to do something as promised to Izou to save Kin'emon and Kikunojo. In the Right Brain Tower, Franky is carrying the unconscious Zoro to find Chopper while being followed by other turncoat Gifters.
On the fourth floor, though, Raizo and Jinbe's preparations are complete. As it turns out, when Raizo was on Zou, he used his Devil Fruit powers to store the seawater Zunesha used to bathe itself in his scrolls, his motivation for doing so being the guilt he felt in being unable to help prevent Oden Castle from burning that day 20 years ago. He then releases all the stored water, and Jinbe uses Mizugokoro and Kairyu Ipponzeoi to hurl the water down throughout the castle to put out all of the fire.
Meanwhile, Yamato tells Momonosuke who is in shock that Kaidou is reaching his limit, and he won't be able to sustain his flame clouds for much longer, which means he has to produce flame clouds as big as his, or else Onigashima will fall. As he says that, Luffy grabs a bolt of lightning preparing to bring it down on Kaidou as he watches, encouraging Luffy to attack him.

Yamato encourages Momonosuke to make large flame clouds, but he claims it's easier said than done. He then thinks back to the day his home was destroyed, when his mother, Kozuki Toki, told him to flee to the future. He admitted he felt he couldn't unless she and his sister accompanied him, but Kin'emon reminds him that in the Land of Wano, when one suffers a great failure, they forfeit their life, and therefore, he can't question the resolve of his mother. He retorts that he is just a kid, but Kin'emon says that with Oden gone, he isn't just his heir anymore. With tears in his eyes too, Kin'emon begged for Momonosuke to give him another chance to fight rather than die a shameful death by fire. Though he was reluctant, Momonosuke agreed to leave his mother behind with his followers. In the present, Momonosuke regains his own conviction and declares that he would never be able to face his mother if he gave up now, and continues to try and stop the island.
On the roof, Kaidou remarks on how Luffy was able to actually grab lighting, as Luffy uses a new move called Gomu Gomu no Kaminari and hurls the lightning bolt at Kaidou. Kaidou, however, sidesteps it and smacks him with Hassaikai, sending him flying off only for Luffy to grab another lightning bolt and swing around and back at Kaidou with an inflated leg. Before he can use another move though, Kaidou dodges and strikes Luffy on the head, where he declares that in the end, a strong Devil Fruit power isn't enough to conquer the seas, revealing that Gol D. Roger himself had no Devil Fruit power yet he was still able to become the Pirate King. Luffy gets propelled down to the ground, which bounces him back up, and as he tries to defend himself, Kaidou yells that to conquer the seas, the one thing that truly matters is Haki.
He then hits him with Daiitoku Raimei Hakke which injures Luffy, but he still grabs Kaidou and starts dragging him up with him to the sky, only for Kaidou to try and shake him loose while changing into his full dragon form to blast him with Tatsumaki Kaifu, acknowledging that even with his awakened power, he's still weak to slashing attacks. While that was going on, the people of the Flower Capital watch their sky lanterns float up into the air with the hope that their wishes will reach the heavens, as they know they will return to being slaves again. Kaidou then blasts Luffy with Bolo Breath to get him to let go while demanding he gets back down.
In the castle, while the fire continues to rage on in some parts of the island, Hyogoro is informed that the island is falling, which he says is because Kaidou is at the end of his rope. He asks everyone what outcome they would prefer: Luffy defeating Kaidou and causing the island to fall and potentially kill everyone, or Kaidou to win and extend everyone's lives by only a little while. The samurai immediately say they're okay with dying as long as the innocent continue to live, and they cheer for Luffy to fight without worrying about them. Some Beasts Pirates retort that they may all die, but Hyogoro doesn't mind.
In the basement, Usopp and Hamlet are running for their lives from the raging fire, only to get swept up in Raizo's water, to their relief. On the Treasure Repository floor, Orochi has managed to get the Seastone nail out of his body, allowing him to transform while still on fire, though he is reduced to one head left. Still, he proclaims that if he dies, he will spite Oden by taking Hiyori with him.
Back on the roof, Luffy tells Momonosuke to get the island out of the way, as he inflates his hand to a humongous size coated in Haki to finish Kaidou with.

Momonosuke tells Luffy that he cannot move Onigashima out of the way, but the memory of his family compels him to try anyway. Kaidou tells Luffy that he will take his attack head on as he starts covering himself in fire, a move called Kaen Daiko. While doing so, he tells Luffy that Oden died twenty years ago by burning to death, and ever since then, Wano became a lawless land filled with people desperately waiting for their "savior" to appear. The fire causes Luffy to let go, which Kaidou says is the right call and that he had no intention of running, though it was because he was confident Luffy would not be able to crush him with his fist because he would vaporize it. Kaidou then performs a move called Shoryu: Kaen Hakke while Luffy uses Gomu Gomu no Bajrang Gun, all the while thinking back to when Hyogoro taught him advanced-grade Busoshoku Haki, and the two attacks clash.
Inside the castle, Usopp tries to keep Kin'emon and Kikunojo from drowning and the other samurai cheer for Luffy to defeat Kaidou, with Kawamatsu saying that unless Kaidou is defeated, then their long nightmare will not end. He thinks about when he and the rest fled the Flower Capital after Oden was killed, and Orochi yelled that they would most definitely head back to Kuri to protect Momonosuke, only for Kaidou to say he would take care of him himself. As a result, several loyal samurai were struck down by Kaidou and the castle was burnt to the ground. Kozuki Toki was pronounced dead in Bakura Town and no one else was found, which led to Orochi believing the Kozuki line had finally ended.
After that, Orochi and Kaidou confronted the remaining daimyo to see who they would side with, and they all quickly picked up arms against them, saying they refuse to recognize a shogun that is not Oden and will avenge him. Sadly, they did not stand a chance against Kaidou, and because of that, none of them could depose Orochi, who continued to enjoy tormenting his people. Their actions would lead to several samurai being imprisoned and forced to work as slaves by the Beasts Pirates, the factories polluting the water, and eventually killing all the crops. Still, several samurai kept believing in Toki's words. Orochi would later start feeding the people of Ebisu Town faulty SMILEs to make them only capable of smiling and laughing even when they are actually sad, which he said was a fitting fate for them all.
In the present, Orochi, still on fire, tries to attack Hiyori, but Denjiro arrives in time and slices Orochi's final head off, ending the psychotic shogun's reign for good. Surprisingly, one of the wishes written on the sky lanterns was "please make Orochi disappear", while another one is "free us from this hell", which Luffy is still working on with his clash with Kaidou.

During their clash, Kaidou commends Luffy for making it this far, but he believes he can never change the world.
Kaidou then thinks back to his youth. When he was 10 years old, he was already formidable in his home of Vodka Kingdom. A few years later, however, the kingdom was revealed to be struggling to make ends meet with the Heavenly Tribute, resorting to going to war to seize loot to pay for their position in the World Government. In order to guarantee a spot in the Levely (and because they could not handle him anymore), the king of the country offered up the young Kaidou to the World Government, much to his personal fury. Still, he was able to escape the Marines' custody, earning himself a bounty and a rumor that he only gets captured to eat something on the prison ships.
Two years later, on Hachinosu, Kaidou furthered his reputation with his formidable strength, which led to Edward Newgate bringing him to Rocks, news that shook the world. Eventually, the Rocks Pirates fell and Kaidou struck out on his own. As he was forming the Beasts Pirates, he was approached by Kurozumi Higurashi, who offered him a proposition that led to his alliance with Kurozumi Orochi in Wano. Kaidou accepted her terms and much later, he declares he will teach the "peace loving" nobles the hellish nature of war, and create a world where one's worth is determined by strength. Later, he confides to King that he overheard Yamato mention "Joy Boy," and if he is the person King is waiting for, then he knows exactly who he is.
In the present, Joseph decides to flee as Yamato cheers for Momonosuke to create large Flame Clouds, which he desperately tries to. Inside the castle, Raizo and Jinbe's water reaches the rest of the interior, swallowing up everyone and putting out all of the fire before flowing out of the island. Everyone tries to hold on for dear life, and down in the Treasure Repository, Denjiro commends Hiyori for enduring her suffering for so long for this moment, which brings her to tears.
However, Kaidou's Flame Clouds have completely disappeared, meaning the island will fall soon. Kaidou asks Luffy what kind of world he wants to make, just as Momonosuke finally produces his own Flame Clouds to support the island. As for Luffy, he tells Kaidou that he wants to create a world where his friends can eat as much as they like as his fist tears through Kaidou's fire dragon and punches him in the face, sending him straight and deep into the ground. Momonosuke drops Onigashima safely near the Flower Capital and passes out from exhaustion, as does Luffy.
In the past, Kaidou told King that Joy Boy is the man who will no doubt defeat him, though King confidently believed he would never appear.

Kaidou changes back to his human form as he continues to sink in the ground, eventually falling into a huge magma chamber underneath Wano, which is also what happened to Big Mom. As a result, several fissures start forming underneath the seas of Wano.
Yamato catches Luffy as he changes back to normal and passes out, and he commends both Luffy and Momonosuke for their actions. Meanwhile, in the Flower Capital, the Fire Festival finally starts dying down. Tenguyama Hitetsu thinks back to earlier how Toko was making her sky lantern and how she found out that Shimotsuki Yasuie let himself get captured even though he knew he would be killed for his role as a daimyo in the past. When she asks why her father did such a thing, Hitetsu answered that he did so to give Wano another chance, otherwise the alliance wouldn't have been able to fight this day. As she thinks back to the day he ate the same SMILE she did so they could forcefully smile together, Hitetsu tells her that he hoped she could live happily, and, touched by this, changes her lantern to instead read "Thank you Daddy" rather than "I wish to see you Daddy," which Hitetsu considered a huge honor.
As Nekomamushi watches the sky lanterns, he declares to everyone across Onigashima that Luffy had beaten Kaidou and Momonosuke stopped Onigashima from crash landing, and though the samurai were surprised to learn Momonosuke was a Devil Fruit eater, everyone was thrilled to learn that the war with the Beasts Pirates was finally over, and they were able to prevail over two of the four Emperors. As everyone celebrates, Usopp brings the unconscious Kin'emon and Kikunojo to Chopper to treat, as does Franky bring Zoro to him, and Miyagi and Tristan report that several others need his attention, which he asks them for help with.
Outside Wano, Momonosuke tells Zunesha that he has decided to not open Wano's borders yet, and Zunesha accepts his wishes. He thanks him as he senses what he believes is an earthquake. The Beasts Pirates, however, refuse to believe that Kaidou has lost since they are the crew of an Emperor, and still believe they have the advantage in numbers. Franky almost continues fighting, but Brook holds him back as Yamato steps up and tells the Beasts Pirates that everyone would have died if Onigashima fell like Kaidou intended, and if they seriously want to keep fighting the people who saved them, he will personally take them down himself.
Everyone then starts feeling the ground shake, and Babanuki is informed that unusual activity was occurring on the surface of the sea. Just then, a huge eruption occurs under the sea, and Luffy is officially declared the victor of the decisive battle.
The people in the Flower Capital witness the explosion and become confused by both it and Onigashima outside. As everyone starts questioning what's going on, Momonosuke appears before his people, who initially mistake him for Kaidou, but he clarifies that he isn't him, and that the eruption was Kaidou's final send off. He changes back to his human form as several other people appear from the smoke, among them Hiyori in her "Komurasaki" guise, which surprises everyone as they all thought she was dead, and then Denjiro, who everyone still thinks is "Kyoshiro." Denjiro tells everyone that the story is long, but he first wants everyone to meet Wano's new shogun.

The people of the Flower Capital start to calm down after realizing that the large pink dragon they saw was not Kaidou, and following "Komurasaki" and "Kyoshiro" is Kin'emon, Kawamatsu, Inuarashi, Nekomamushi, Raizo, Shinobu, and Kikunojo, who the people recognize as the Nine Red Scabbards. Shocked by this unexpected turn of events, the people start clamoring for a Picture Tanishi to transmit this historical development across Wano.
Near Onigashima's crash site, Yamato finally meets the rest of the Straw Hats, and while some were surprised to learn he was Kaidou's child, he assures them that he is not their enemy, and from here on out, he will be joining the Straw Hat Pirates; Usopp and Nami react with shock, Franky confusion, Brook and Sanji with glee, and Robin with amusement. Jinbe, however, says he is not convinced until Luffy gives the say so, which Yamato accepts, though right now, Luffy and Zoro are being treated by Chopper. Yamato notices some Beasts Pirates fleeing and he and other Gifters yell for them to stay put. Usopp then asks Tama how long her Devil Fruit powers last, and she reveals that the tamed Gifters will turn back to normal after a month. She also says that the animals get to choose what life they prefer as some stay tamed, and Speed confirms this saying she wants to remain by Tama's side, which she happily accepts, though she asks her to become her mother rather than her servant, which Speed becomes touched by.
In the transmission, Momonosuke steps forward as the group bow to him, where he announces to all of Wano what has transpired. The citizens of Wano are shocked to learn he is the son of Kozuki Oden; he continues to announce that they are now free from the tyrannical reign of Kaidou and Kurozumi Orochi, and they will no longer have to charge to drink clean water, that there will be no more slavery and the factories that polluted their once beautiful land will be destroyed. This causes Tama to think back to when her parents died working in the factories and how she was eventually found by Tenguyama Hitetsu, who assured her that the Kozuki Family's warriors would return, which gave her the strength to keep going. In the present, she cries into Nami's arms as she remembers Luffy's promise to her.
Momonosuke tells the people that on his voyage he met a powerful and passionate friend; together the formed the Ninja-Pirate-Mink-Samurai Alliance and invaded Onigashima. To everyone's surprise, Momonosuke announced that Kaidou, Orochi and the Beast Pirates have all been defeated; The people of Wano cheer as they are finally free of those villains. Though Momonosuke starts to grow nervous, he pushes through and announces his name, and his adult-form is finally shown, where he declares himself Wano's new shogun; he asks the people of Wano to lend him their strength and together they will return Wano to glory. Everyone is brought to tears by Momonosuke's proclamation as Momonosuke reassures himself that he will keep his promise to his parents, after which he embraces his younger sister for a long-awaited hug.
As Momonosuke and the group walk away, the narration reveals that Momonosuke will become known as Wano's greatest shogun.

The Five Elders discuss two recent major developments in Wano Country after being informed by the remaining CP0 agent: the emergence of Nika and the subsequent defeat of Big Mom and Kaidou during the Raid on Onigashima. Saturn commented that the reveal of such information would be impossible to censor and are asking the other Elders what to do. Meanwhile, the CP0 agent Joseph, who had returned to the World Government fleet stationed outside Wano, reported that Zunesha has left the area. Nusjuro responds that the country will keep its borders closed and that an invasion will be thwarted, yet still asks Joseph to capture Nico Robin. However, Joseph is unable to hear the latter when their signal is being jammed, by a mysterious voice who states for them to stay in position as they will be there soon.
At the Onigashima castle, X Drake encounters Basil Hawkins who is barely able to stand. Hawkins learns that Drake is still a member of the Marines but the latter refuses to confirm. Hawkins then sits leaning at a pillar and reveals to Drake that he worked for Kaidou because he would not stand a chance if he refused. However, he also acknowledges how Eustass Kid and Killer continued resisting despite certain death. He then reveals to Drake that the "certain man" who has a one percent of surviving the raid was himself. He then faints.
Seven days have passed since the end of the raid and the Fire Festival. At a school in the Flower Capital, a new teacher has replaced Sarahebi and revises the entire history course with a lesson on the life of Kozuki Oden. The citizens also learn that Komurasaki was Kozuki Hiyori and that Kawamatsu saved her from the burning castle. They also enjoy clean drinking water and an abundance of food. They also discuss that the man who defeated Kaidou was someone named Joy Boy. They believe that he has already left the country, and compare him to the legendary "Sword God" Ryuma.
Meanwhile, at the graveyard in Ringo, Kawamatsu and Kin'emon discuss the building of a temple dedicated to Kozuki Oden, including his fellow Daimyo and ending with a tribute to Ashura Doji and Izou. Onimaru returns to Kawamatsu and Marco has also arrived at the temple. They also take into account those who are injured and prayed for their recovery.
Yamato is seen sitting at the top of the former Orochi Castle. He is then overjoyed after hearing from Hiyori that both Luffy and Zoro are awake and have fully recovered while kicking Momonosuke in the face. Luffy and Zoro also fails to acknowledge the grown Momonosuke and attempts to grab Nami to comfort him, only to be sent flying. Sanji and Brook then mock Momonosuke that they are "welcoming him into the adult world" and that he can no longer have the "privilege" of staying with Nami. Yamato also teases him by putting a plate on his head.
Nami then invites Yamato to take a bath together noting that his prayers have been answered, but the latter refuses because there are no shared baths in the castle. Sanji also learns that Hiyori cleaned Zoro while he was recovering which turned into a brawl between the two. Amidst the commotion, Kikunojo then joins the women in Yamato's stead. Yamato then joins the men as they bathed in the Castle onsen, which caused Sanji to have another nosebleed. Nami then joins the female retainers in the female end of the onsen.
After the bath, the citizens decide to celebrate the return of the Kozuki Family as the Shogun of Wano. Meanwhile, Franky and Usopp are joined by Minatomo in fixing the ships as well as the General Franky at the Tokage Port in Udon. Bepo and Killer are amazed by Franky's robot but Kid and Law and the rest of their crews not to become too attached with the other groups. Scratchmen Apoo then arrives being carried by Inbi. He brought a copy of the day's Newspaper, the headline being the so-called "New Emperors of the Sea" and their new bounties.
Meanwhile, Ryokugyu is flying in the air near the Wano mainland. He is talking with Sakazuki and was told not to cause any more commotions.

In Mary Geoise, Five Elder Saint Topman Warcury is yelling at a marine telling him to reprint the newspapers and change the image of Luffy's bounty and remove the D. from his name. The marine tells him that the photo was sent in by CP0 agent Guernica. He also says that they can't contact the printing company. As the elder tells him to cease distribution of the newspapers, Morgans is seen laughing and saying that it's up to him to spread this news "around the globe". He also says that Cipher Pol's transmission from Wano Country broke off right after they encountered the Big Mom Pirates' ship.
As a result, news of Big Mom and Kaidou's defeats spread all across the world and the three responsible for it; Monkey D. Luffy, Eustass "Captain" Kid, and Trafalgar D. Water Law, were issued huge bounties as a result: 3,000,000,000 each! This news shocks the Heart and Kid Pirates as Scratchmen Apoo asks where Kid is going off to, and Killer suspects what he wants as he and the rest of the crew go off to celebrate, while Law calls the situation complicated.
In the castle at the Flower Capital, a cook is seen making dishes for the big party. Jinbe is the only person in there and is drinking sake. Luffy, Yamato and Chopper are having fun at the party and eating while Brook is having a concert playing "Moon Princess", the song that Kozuki Hiyori used to play on the shamisen. Luffy asked Momonosuke not to tell the people who he is because he doesn't want to be called a "hero", as a result he known throughout Wano as a warrior called Joy Boy became forever grateful for defeating Kaidou. Meanwhile, in the castle basement, Tenguyama Hitetsu finds Robin looking around. She asks why his collection of Kokeshi Dolls are in the basement, and he reveals that it was once his secret hobby room before becoming his prison, as it also has a Poneglyph present. Robin questions what he means since she thought he was a swordsman, to which he admitted he had talent in smithing but found it simply as a hobby since governing was so weary for him. That is when he takes off his mask and reveals that he is actually the former shogun Kozuki Sukiyaki!
Robin is shocked and asks him if Momonosuke knows that he is still alive, to which Sukiyaki replies that he doesn't and that he has no plans to tell him out of shame for letting the country be overtaken by Orochi, although Sukiyaki suspects that his retainers have probably already deduced his identity. He says that when he got out and saw the state of Wano, he planned on committing seppuku there and then, but Robin cuts off his sentence by telling him that the Poneglyph in the Arabasta Kingdom revealed that the ancient weapon, Pluton, rests in Wano Country and she asks him if it truly does. Sukiyaki confirms, saying that it is in fact in Wano.
At the former prison mine in Udon, Admiral Ryokugyu, whose real name is "Aramaki", has subdued all of the Beasts Pirates imprisoned there, including King and Queen. It turns out he has the ability to turn his fingers into roots, which he uses to drain all of them of their liquids, and other liquids nearby. Ryokugyu picks up a transmission and notifies the Marines to bring a warship to Wano, and also to not tell Sakazuki what he is doing before hanging up. Afterwards, he reveals that he finds Sakazuki's extreme methods cool and wants his approval, which he thinks he can achieve if he brings him Luffy's head.
Speaking of, Luffy congratulates the Ninja-Samurai-Pirate-Mink-Samurai Alliance, retainers, yakuza, and all of Wano for their outstanding victory.  That's when Kid arrives announcing his intent to kill Luffy, but Luffy quickly grabs him, and everyone starts partying. After a bit, though, Kid breaks free of Luffy's grip as he tells him he cares nothing for the party and simply came to kill him, though he does tell him that the outside world has announced the names of the new Emperors, which are "Red-Haired" Shanks, "Blackbeard" Teach, Luffy himself, and, in a surprising twist, "Star Clown" Buggy!
As for Ryokugyu, he approaches the Capital while hearing the festivities, but says that he isn't in the festive mood considering the state the whole world is in now.

As Ryokugyu continues walking towards the Flower Capital, he says that having the ability to sway others isn't something one can see often. However, he gets stopped by Denjiro, Inuarashi, Nekomamushi, Shinobu, Raizo, and Kawamatsu, all of whom Ryokugyu demands step aside. Raizo and Denjiro deduce that Ryokugyu is a Marine and is therefore Luffy's enemy, but Ryokugyu attacks everyone with his Devil Fruit powers, as he had consumed the Logia-type Mori Mori no Mi, and is therefore, a Forest Man.
While attacking, Ryokugyu tells the samurai that the World Nobles are gods, and a country that has no ties to the World Government, such as Wano, has no rights. He also tells them that humanity has only advanced so far because they enforce hierarchies, and non-affiliated countries have to be put in their place in order to keep the peace, because according to him, prejudice breeds stability. As the six of them try to defend themselves, Ryokugyu announces that he will kill as many citizens of Wano as it takes to capture Luffy, since killing non-affiliated people isn't a crime in his book.
Yamato then arrives on the scene and angrily slams Ryokugyu's head into the ground, telling him that everything he just said makes him sick. Ryokugyu recovers and Yamato tells him that he will not let him spoil the people of Wano's newfound freedom after two decades. Ryokugyu, however, simply asks who he is, and Yamato introduces himself as Kaidou's son, which shocks the Admiral. Momonosuke then arrives in his dragon form and praises Yamato for his words, and he attempts to strike Ryokugyu by imitating Kaidou's Bolo Breath, but nothing happens. Nevertheless, Momonosuke runs over to Ryokugyu and bites him, demanding he leave so he can continue to protect Wano from people like him. Ryokugyu, however, wraps his roots around Momonosuke to move him out of his way. Yamato tries to help but Momonosuke demands he stay out of the fight.
Meanwhile, in the seas around Wano, the Red Hair Pirates are sailing outside of the country. Some of Shanks' officers tell him that they should go see Luffy, though Shanks is too busy reminiscing about the last time he saw Kozuki Oden and his kids. As he looks at Luffy's new wanted poster, he thinks back to when he and his crew raided the World Government ship that was transporting the Gomu Gomu no Mi, and after that the time he spent in Luffy's village up to when he lost his left arm trying to save him. After he finishes reminiscing, he tells his crew that he isn't going to meet Luffy in Wano, which shocks everyone. He reminds them that Bartolomeo made a mess recently in one of their territories by burning his flag and replacing it with Luffy's and he wants to handle that situation. He does, though, tell Benn Beckman that it's time they make their move and claim the One Piece.
At the Marine Headquarters in the New World, Fleet Admiral Sakazuki is told the World Government can't ignore the Revolutionary Army anymore, and while Sakazuki knows this, there are no Marines left to deploy. The person he is talking to, Marine Criminal Affairs unit chief Kurouma (real name Tensei), tells him that Sabo has become legendary, because apparently, he assassinated Nefertari Cobra, the king of Arabasta and one of the descendants of the founding 20 from 800 years ago, which he thinks is a huge boon for the Revolutionary Army. On top of that, before Cobra was killed, he attacked Mary Geoise and destroyed the symbol of the World Nobles, which is practically a declaration of war. Despite Fujitora's and Ryokugyu's best efforts, Sabo and the other Revolutionary Army leaders were able to rescue Bartholomew Kuma and escape. Kurouma says that the two Admirals were probably restricted from fighting in the Holy Land, but Sakazuki demands that he do not make any excuses for them.
It is also revealed that Cobra's daughter, Nefertari Vivi, disappeared too, and he is still investigating how Cobra's death and her disappearance are connected. Sakazuki surmises that Arabasta is in chaos now, while Kizaru, who was also present, asks if they can close the case on the attempted murder of Saint Charlos. Kurouma, however, says that Saint Mjosgard excused the assailants and in the Holy Land, it falls to God's Knights to mediate conflicts, but Sakazuki tells him to leave them to it.
Kurouma says that most of these incidents are linked to Sabo, who's "Flames of Rebellion" are spreading all over the globe, and that eight of the rebelling kingdoms were inspired to stage their coups while the kings were away. Now, people are calling Sabo a "god" or the "Flame Emperor", and whose influence is said to be even greater than Monkey D. Dragon's himself.  Kizaru also pointed out that on top of all that his little brother was now one of the Four Emperors. Sure, enough a revolutionary that was rallying the troops claimed that Sabo's influence could be felt even in the pirate world as his younger brother just upended their status quo and right now times are being forced to change.
Sakazuki remarks he became Fleet Admiral during a very intense era but asserts that if the Revolutionary Army rears its head at them, he will intend to strike back on all fronts.

Momonosuke once again tells Yamato not to interfere with his fight with Ryokugyu. Yamato asks why but Momonosuke gets smacked to the ground by the Admiral. Raizo uses Ninpo: Maki Maki no Jutsu: Katon to burn Ryokugyu, who acts like it hurts before dropping the charade and revealing that he can make himself fireproof, citing he wouldn't have become an Admiral if he couldn't defend himself from such an obvious weakness. He then stabs Raizo through the chest with his roots and starts draining him, to his friend's fury. Despite the Scabbards best efforts, they are unable to permanently cut Ryokugyu's roots, and soon, Denjiro, Kawamatsu, and Nekomamushi get wrapped up.
Meanwhile, Kozuki Sukiyaki and Nico Robin are joined by Trafalgar Law, who deduced their location based on their absence from the festival. They make their way further down from Sukiyaki's secret room as the former shogun admits that Kaidou and Orochi were still able to find the Poneglyph underground because of Jack, since he is a fish-man. Robin inquires what he means, and Sukiyaki explains they will understand soon. Law asks how far down it goes and he says a few hundred years, just as the two notice a dim light coming from a glass-block window. The two take a look through it and are surprised by what they see: an entire city underwater!
Sukiyaki explains that what they are seeing is the Wano of old, specifically from 800 years ago, though he doesn't know how it ended up in such a state. Robin says that the city looks preserved, as if the water isn't seawater, and Sukiyaki proposes his theory: Long ago, Wano was much bigger and at sea level on the land around the base of Mt. Fuji. At some point, though, walls were erected all around, which enclosed the island and prevented rainwater from finding release, which caused the old city to become submerged. The land further up the mountain was established for settlers, and eventually became the current Wano.
The three finally arrive at their destination and discover a Road Poneglyph, marking it as the third one the Straw Hat Pirates need to reach Laugh Tale, leaving only one left. Sukiyaki then says that if one were to travel a little deeper, they would find Pluton, but he himself hasn't seen it before nor can he show them. He does reveal, though, that retrieving it requires the removal of the walls surrounding the country, meaning that "opening the borders" is quite literal. It also means that if the walls are destroyed, Wano won't be protected anymore, and Pluton will be unleashed onto the world. Robin asks why Oden wanted to open the land's borders if that was to be the case, but Sukiyaki says everything he told her was what was passed down to him as shogunate, and that he doesn't know what his son learned during his travels.
Outside the Flower Capital, Ryokugyu tells the restrained samurai that he wouldn't have shown up if Kaidou was still in charge, claiming that his presence, no matter how horrible it was, acted as a deterrent for potential predators. He once again demands Luffy be brought before him, promising to leave after he kills him. Yamato asks Momonosuke to call Luffy and the others to take Ryokugyu down, but he refuses to involve them. He also tells Yamato that he doesn't want to "taint" his sendoff after being imprisoned for so long, and after relying on the Straw Hats for so long, he needs to prove that he and his retainers can fend for themselves once they leave.
Momonosuke continues demanding that Ryokugyu leave, and he eventually manages to manifest Kaidou's Bolo Breath, heavily damaging Ryokugyu. The Scabbards and Yamato react with amazement to Momonosuke's accomplishment as Ryokugyu's tree form burns to ashes. He is able to regenerate from a sapling and regain his tree form, where he announces he will kill him if he continues to stand in his way.
However, Ryokugyu senses an incredibly strong blast of Haoshoku Haki coming from Shanks, which causes him to return to normal. He reacts with surprise that the Red Hair Pirates are nearby, as Shanks himself says that he thinks that going after the new generation of pirates while they have their guard down seems tasteless, asking if the new age scares him that much. His presence convinces Ryokugyu to abandon his mission, and the samurai and Yamato celebrate their victory.
While in the Flower Capital, while everyone else is partying, Luffy, Zoro, Sanji, and Jinbe, who were sitting by a hillside and noticing the fight, remark that their samurai friends were amazing and how intense Shanks' Haki was to be able to drive Ryokugyu away. They don't know that it was him though, but Luffy has his suspicions as Shanks sails away.

Inside the Flower Capital's castle, Raizo and Shinobu are being nursed back to health by Miyagi and Tristan while Kin'emon is forced to admit Ryokugyu had a good point when referring to Kaidou's presence keeping enemies at bay. He apologizes to the patients for not being there, before Nekomamushi brushes it off and asks Kin'emon how Tsurujo was doing. Kin'emon explains that she is safe and sound with only a serious burn on her face despite Okobore Town having burned down. He blushes while acknowledging her beauty even after all those years, while Inuarashi, Kikunojo and Raizo express their feelings about Kin'emon's sentimentality. Meanwhile at the remains of Okobore Town, Tsurujo and Chocho talk about Kin'emon's return, and how Tsurujo plans to move back to the Flower Capital so she can continue to remain by her husband's side.
Carrot is then called to the castle and is announced to be the new ruler of Mokomo Dukedom, much to her shock. Inuarashi and Nekomamushi explain this decision by telling her that they chose to stay in Wano to serve Momonosuke and leave the next era in her and the others' hands due to her experience at sea. Carrot disapproves, saying there are so many people stronger than her, but the Inuarashi Musketeer Squad and Wanda back up the decision by saying it's their job to protect their country and that most importantly, she carries Pedro's will within her heart.
Later, Kozuki Sukiyaki shows himself to his grandchildren and the Scabbards, assuming all of the samurai knew as well (which was true except for Kin'emon, who internally expresses surprise to his survival). Sukiyaki tells them he can teach them a few things, but will mostly stay secluded from the public, wanting to leave the future to them. In another room, Franky and the rest of the Straw Hats learn from Robin that Pluton is indeed in Wano, but she hasn't seen it yet. Robin asks Luffy if he desires to obtain it, and he refuses, citing he doesn't need it, but Robin is left questioning why Oden wanted to unleash it on the world. A youthful-looking woman then butts into the conversation, which is revealed to be Shinobu, having regained her youthful form following Ryokugyu's attack. She is accompanied by Tama, who has become her kunoichi apprentice. Tama asks Luffy if she can join his crew, and he accepts following she masters ninjutsu. Caribou, who was eavesdropping nearby, is shocked by the truth about Pluton, and must let a certain person know about it.
A few days later, the Flower Capital becomes busy again. At the castle, Momonosuke barges into a room to ask Zoro to teach him some sword techniques, only to find no one. He searches around the castle, and learns from Hiyori and Toko that they already left, having said goodbye to everyone except him and Kin'emon. At Udon's Tokage Port, Luffy, Law and Kid choose their next destinations via Log Pose, the former two separating themselves due to their alliance having come to an end. Both Luffy and Kid pick to go east, while Law decides to go northeast, reasoning that it is the shortest route to reach an island. Luffy and Kid pick straws to decide who gets to pick the middle log, and Luffy loses while rubbing into Kid's face he is now an Emperor even though he lost.
While on the subject of Emperors, Kid takes out a flyer and voices his strong dislike for Buggy and his new organization: Cross Guild. With former Warlords Crocodile and Dracule Mihawk as his subordinates, he has become a powerful enough figure to obtain the title of Emperor.  Zoro voices his disbelief that Mihawk would become subordinate to anyone, and Luffy just calls Buggy an idiot. Still, Kid reveals that he's using his company to assign bounties to members of the Marines, remarking how so much changed in the outside world while they were in Wano.
Law gives Kid a rubbing of Wano's Road Poneglyph, and the latter reveals his crew had managed to take one from Whole Cake Island some time ago. Killer states that in order to take part in the upcoming war over the One Piece, they need to find a "man with a burn mark." Luffy questions him about it, before Kid laughs as he tells Luffy they now have an advantage over him and his crew.
Back at the castle, Momonosuke and Kin'emon search for Yamato, who was on the roof the whole time. He announces his intent to join the Straw Hats and live like Kozuki Oden did.

In the forest near Tokage Port, Momonosuke in dragon form is carrying Kin'emon and Yamato on his back as Momonosuke is surprised to learn that Yamato has chosen not to set sail with the Straw Hat Pirates. The two are confused by this since he made a declaration that his mind was made up, and Yamato explains that he wants to walk in Kozuki Oden's footsteps, and he explored all of Wano first before he went out to sea, so he intends to start there too. Momonosuke becomes enraged that the Straw Hats were informed of all of this by him, yet they didn't bother to say goodbye to his face directly, which causes him to accuse them of snubbing him on purpose. He thinks back to his life from when his home was destroyed by Kaidou to when he met Luffy, all their interactions, and ending with Luffy's declaration that he would stop Kaidou.
Both Momonosuke and Kin'emon angrily agree to punish Luffy for his apparent rudeness and lack of true friendship, but Yamato believes they are overreacting. They eventually reach Tokage Port, where the Straw Hats, Heart Pirates, and Kid Pirates prepare to set sail as Momonosuke transforms back into his human form and tackles Luffy to the ground, with Yamato also doing so albeit just to say goodbye to him. Kin'emon tells Luffy that his leaving without saying anything has upset the shogun, but Luffy simply says that it shouldn't matter if they are talking right now.
Momonosuke then tells Luffy that he wants him to stay in Wano while breaking down into tears, explaining that he's scared about what the future holds without him since he helped him so much. Luffy, however, throws a flag on him, which Usopp painted the Straw Hats' symbol on. Luffy reveals that they were waiting for him the whole time so they could give it to him, and though he looks like a man, he knows he is still a kid, but most of all, he sees him as a little brother. Luffy tells Momonosuke to look at the flag when times get tough to remember them by and to hang it up somewhere in Wano to intimidate anyone who threatens his home. Momonosuke tearfully asks if this means he is a member of their crew, and Luffy confirms, adding that when he, Kin'emon, and Yamato decide to become pirates, he will welcome them on board. The Thousand Sunny sets sail as the Straw Hats cheer Momonosuke on. Momonosuke turns to Kin'emon and tells him that he will surpass his father one day, which Kin'emon looks forward to.
Once setting sail, Nami says they should head for the main port in Hakumai, that way they don't have to ride the waterfall like last time, much to Chopper and Brook's relief. Unfortunately, Kid taunts both Luffy and Law by saying that using such a safe method is for weaklings. This results in all three crews going down the waterfall, much to the frustration of the rest of the Straw Hats.
In the Flower Capital, meanwhile, the tale of the Raid on Onigashima is told to an audience of Wano citizens. The narrator says that the strength of the three pirate captains was enough to vanquish Kaidou, who they called the "Dragon King" and Big Mom, who they called the "O-Lin the Great Yokai." The narrator also says that during the battle, Hiyori was accosted by Orochi only to be struck down for good by Denjiro. He goes on to say that Onigashima fell along with Kaidou and freed the suffering country from their 20 years of hell. Suddenly, though, Orochi used the last of his life to tell Hiyori that the burning grudge of the Kurozumi Family will curse Wano for eternity, but Hiyori, unfazed, approached him and told him that "Kurozumi" means "charcoal"; Kurozumi was born to burn. The audience then roars with approval as Hiyori and Toko themselves appear to play music, as the tale concludes.
In the last scene, the arc concludes with Momonosuke wondering where they should put the Straw Hats' flag as the curtain closes.

An irate Nami has locked a bruised and beaten Luffy in a cage as punishment for causing the ship to go over the waterfall instead of using the safer option and risking everyone's lives once again. Jinbe tells her not to be so hard on him since everyone is okay, but Nami yells that as a part of the crew, they need to keep Luffy under a tight leash. Her rage scares him to the point that he believes she has Haoshoku Haki, but Chopper tells him to just avoid her when she is mad. Franky, similar to Jinbe, is pleased, but this is because the only damage done to the ship was a broken yard on the mast, a testament of his ship's power.
A News Coo arrives with the newspapers and Robin distributes the new bounties for the Straw Hat Pirates with Luffy being referred to as the Senior Captain and his crewmen as the Senior Officers of the Straw Hat Grand Fleet:
Meanwhile on Karai Bari Island, the members of Buggy's Delivery Service are in awe over the fact that Buggy seemingly recruited Dracule Mihawk to save them from the Marines following the dissolution of the Warlord System. Off to the side, however, Buggy is desperately pleading for his life while Crocodile holds him by the hair and Mihawk holds his sword over his separated head. Crocodile tells Buggy that Cross Guild was supposed to be led by himself and Mihawk, so the fact that Buggy is considered the boss instead is an insult to his pride. Mihawk similarly adds that even if Buggy were to die here and now, it wouldn't make up for the shame they feel now. Galdino tries to curry favor with Crocodile as he had once worked for him in Baroque Works, much to Buggy's fury, while the other members of his crew believe all they can do is follow Crocodile now.
As it turns out, following the dissolution of the Warlord System, Crocodile contacted Mihawk and suggested they team up to form an organization that would scare the Marines, using the fact that Mihawk has decided to relocate himself due to constantly being attacked by Marines as justification and that beforehand, he was once known as the "Marine Hunter."
Following their team up, Crocodile and Mihawk made their way to Karai Bari Island, destroying the Marine's ships as a result. This causes Buggy's men to believe that Buggy was risking himself by summoning Crocodile for help, as rumors were circulating that he was his subordinate. However, what they do not know is that Buggy took out a huge loan from Crocodile and became fearful he had come to collect his debt. When Crocodile confronts him, he admits he is surprised Buggy stuck around since he figured he would have bailed by this point (which he would have had his subordinates not seen him and expressed belief he would help them). Buggy tries to explain his debt to Crocodile by telling him that operating a delivery service requires a lot of money to keep running and he had a lot of mouths to feed, and his biggest earners, the giants, had all quit. Crocodile suggests he sell Buggy into slavery, but Buggy tries to appease to him by reminding him that they escaped Impel Down together. Crocodile ignores him and tells him that he needs a capital to begin his company, and if Buggy cannot pay, he will have to take full responsibility. Desperate, Buggy offers to join and use his organization and resources to kickstart Crocodile's business, even offering to work for free.
Though he accepted these terms, when Crocodile demands to know why Buggy was given the top-billing on the flier, he explains it was not his idea, as his devout followers' blind faith to him was what led to the fliers looking the way they do. Ultimately, Mihawk decides that it would not be a bad idea to let Buggy be the organization's figurehead, as he would personally rather live peacefully than be considered an Emperor. Crocodile agrees to Mihawk's views, especially since the two of them can do away with Buggy should they need to. His life spared for now, Buggy announces the two as Cross Guild's executives to his men, who mistake his tears of fear over his fate for tears of joy.
As for how Buggy became an Emperor, at Marine HQ, the Marines discussed Buggy's accomplishments (him being considered the mastermind of the Impel Down mass escape, having a close relationship with Shanks, and the fact that Crocodile seemingly came to his aid and made contact with Mihawk prior) and that Cross Guild's Marine hunting movement is attracting attention from many shady organizations, thus making it a very dangerous threat to them. They decided to award Crocodile a bounty of 1,965,000,000, Mihawk a bounty of 3,590,000,000, and Buggy 3,189,000,000, with his reputation being the foundation of his new status as an Emperor.
Meanwhile, on Momoiro Island, Emporio Ivankov tells Koala to cheer up since Sabo and the rest of the commanders are all okay, and she does. Morley expresses annoyance that Sabo's actions made them stew, while Karasu and Lindbergh say what happened occurred after he split from them, but they believe in him. Koala looks at Dragon, who admits that while he's relieved Sabo is okay, if he truly did assassinate Nefertari Cobra, he won't forgive him no matter the reason. He then asks Kuma to tell him what he saw as Koala picks up a call to them that the Marines manage to listen in on.
On the other end of the Den Den Mushi, Sabo's voice rings.

Near Whitebeard's homeland Sphinx, the Red Hair Pirates have dropped off Marco, who decides to fly all the way back to the island. Marco thanks Shanks for the ride as he asks once again if Marco really doesn't want to join his crew. Marco confirms and even adds that he considers himself too old and worn out to play babysitter to a great pirate like him, a statement shared by Shanks' fellow officers and to his own personal frustration.
As Marco bids goodbye, he thinks back to before the Straw Hats left Wano, and how surprised Luffy (and Sanji) were that Yamato chose not to join them. Yamato tells them that Ryokugyu's attack made him realize that Kaidou's downfall means more people like the Admiral will try to invade Wano, so he can't turn his back on them, especially if he does leave, he'll continuously worry about them. Luffy ultimately accepts Yamato's wishes as Zoro recommends he be careful as to not hurt Momonosuke's pride, to which Yamato says he will find another reason to stay. Overhead, Marco calls to Luffy and tells him that he will be hitching a ride with a nearby ship. Luffy tells Marco he didn't get a chance to thank him for saving him during the Summit War. Marco accepts his thanks and says that Ace would be proud of how far he had come before saying that the times belong to him and the other youngsters of his generation.
Meanwhile, on Amazon Lily, Gloriosa remarks how deep into the island men were able to invade their home and how damaged the town is, with the mountain having lost about half of its entire structure. Boa Hancock says that as long as she remains on the island, the Marines won't stop hunting them, to which she remarks that she should go marry Luffy now, which annoys Gloriosa since Hancock is always thinking about that.
As it turns out, a few weeks prior, during Koby and the Marine's attack on the Kuja Pirates, the attacking Marines decided to deploy their new Pacifistas, the Seraphim, which seem to take the form of children, keeping some of the Kuja Pirates from fighting back. During the attack, though, Blackbeard's ship was spotted, with Blackbeard himself creating a Kaishin to shove the Marines away. Blackbeard then appears with Catarina Devon and Vasco Shot accompanying him, where he announces that he has come for Boa Hancock's Mero Mero no Mi, unwilling to let the Marines acquire it. Devon muses how nice Hancock's head would make as a trophy and Blackbeard tells her that she can have her way with her after they take her powers, with Shot saying they could have more fun with her if she was alive.
Vice Admiral Yamakaji is asked if the Marines should engage the Blackbeard Pirates, but he says they need to wait for word from HQ, only for most of the Marines to get blown away by Blackbeard. He barges his way into the island and demands Hancock show herself, while Koby, who was already on the island, asks Hancock to surrender if she wants them to leave. Hancock refuses and steps out to confront the opposing sides, just as Blackbeard gets a call for help from his subordinates. He sees the attacker and, to his shock, discovers not only is it the new Pacifista, but it has all the traits of a Lunarian, and who's sword strike was what cut the island's mountain in half. Blackbeard starts fighting the Pacifista and is forced to use Black Hole to swallow everything, while Hancock uses Slave Arrow to petrify several Marines, including Helmeppo and Yamakaji. The Pacifista continues attack as Koby demands it stop to protect the petrified Marines, but just as Hancock is about to use Perfume Femur, Blackbeard grabs her by the throat and nullifies her powers, as both their new bounties are revealed to be 1,659,000,000 for Hancock and 3,996,000,000 for Blackbeard.
Blackbeard acknowledges that Hancock's reputation is well-earned, especially since she was able to petrify Devon and Shot among his crew. While Koby tries to figure out what to do with all of the Marines down, Blackbeard tells her that he's had his eye on her Devil Fruit for a long time. She retorts that her beauty is what makes her powers formidable, and even if he kills her, those who have been petrified will remain so forever, fully confident that whoever inherits her power won't have the same capacity as her. Blackbeard then speaks to Koby and says that they are now at an impasse, while also stating that he did him a "favor" at Rocky Port which allowed him to oust Ochoku and take Hachinosu for himself.
Blackbeard asks Koby if he thinks Hancock will turn everyone back to normal if he unhands her, and Koby says that if she didn't, it would be a headache for him. Hancock says she will turn everyone back to normal if they both leave, but Blackbeard refuses, reasoning that she won't keep up her end of the bargain due to her charms. At this point, Blackbeard decides to kill Hancock, which Koby objects to, but thankfully, he is stopped by the arrival of Silvers Rayleigh, who apologizes to Hancock for coming late while admitting he didn't expect the extent of the damage seen. He also says to a shocked Blackbeard that even though he was once Whitebeard's apprentice, he doesn't like him. As he draws his sword, he asks Hancock to release everyone while he makes sure to de-escalates and that everyone leaves the island.
In the present day, Hancock thanks Rayleigh for saving her as Shakuyaku, who not only accompanied Rayleigh, but is also revealed to be the former empress of Amazon Lily from two generations ago and the former captain of the Kuja Pirates, says that Vegapunk's modifications to Marine ships means that the Calm Belt is no longer a safe place for them. Gloriosa says that she genuinely thought they were finished, and Rayleigh even adds that they were lucky, as it was his reputation that ended the conflict, and that he won't be able to beat Blackbeard head-on due to his old age. Rayleigh then says that the Marines are aiming to use the new Pacifistas to replace the Seven Warlords of the Sea, with Boa Marigold and Boa Sandersonia remarking that the two that were deployed didn't have a scratch on them, and even one of them looked like Hancock as a child.
As for the Marines, they reveal that Koby was captured by Blackbeard, leaving his current fate unknown.

The Straw Hat Pirates read the news and discover the allegation that Sabo killed Nefertari Cobra. Immediately, Luffy yells that he doesn't believe Sabo would do such a thing, and Robin sides with him, revealing that the Revolutionary Army's enemy is the World Nobles, not regular kings. They also read that Vivi has gone missing, and Luffy orders that course be set for Arabasta right now. Zoro tells him that it is pointless because Vivi was last seen in Mary Geoise, but Luffy simply says they head there instead while Zoro kicks over a chained-up barrel that has Caribou inside.
Zoro reminds Luffy that Mary Geoise is the den of their enemy, but Luffy simply calls him a chicken while Zoro retorts that they need more information. Sanji sobs over Vivi's condition while Chopper laments that her father was dead, as he was nice to them back in Arabasta, something Usopp agrees with. Nami is also worried for Vivi's safety as well, and Jinbe comments how tumultuous the Levely was. Franky and Brook state they don't believe Sabo killed Cobra, with Brook even adding he's never known anyone displeased with the sand kingdom.
At that point, Nami bursts into tears and Luffy yells they need to save her, but Zoro demands everyone calm down. He asks Luffy if he remembers telling them that Ace had his own adventures and how he trusted him to handle himself up until he absolutely needed help. As such, he feels Vivi should be treated the same way because he knows how tough she is. Luffy, Nami, Chopper, and Sanji, however, retort that he can't stop them from worrying about her and start name-calling him, leading to a fight between him and Sanji once again.
Robin, meanwhile, says that so much transpired while they were in Wano, particularly that the abolishment of the Seven Warlords of the Sea sent Crocodile, Buggy, and Dracule Mihawk back out to sea and lead to the founding of Cross Guild and Buggy's ascension as Emperor (which Luffy correctly deduces was due to a mix up). Robin asks Luffy if he wants to hear about the others listed in the paper, and he says he will leave it in her care and to alert him if there is anything big to keep his eye on, which she accepts.
Luffy lays down on his back and once again says that Sabo is innocent, even telling everyone about how his dream was so no one would get their freedom taken away from them like his was as a kid. He reminisces over the day he, Sabo, and Ace made an oath and Luffy tells everyone what he told them, resulting in a surprised reaction from everyone, with Usopp saying what Luffy wants is impossible despite his beliefs. It then occurs to Luffy that he had never actually told them what he told his brothers and Shanks, but simply says that at the end of his dream, that is what he wants. The crew's reactions become one of encouragement and Franky declares to Luffy that becoming the Pirate King is the bare minimum to achieve it, adding that there is to find only one Road Poneglyph to get to Laugh Tale; but Robin tells him it's not that easy, since no one has seen that Poneglyph in years and there are no clues as to where it may be.
Meanwhile, at Marine HQ, the Marines track where Sabo is calling Momoiro Island from, and learn it is Lulusia Kingdom, one of the nations the Revolutionary Army helped rebel. The Five Elders remark on this development and call him "unfortunate". On Momoiro Island, Sabo apologizes for the trouble he caused and confirms he did not kill Cobra, but he saw something unbelievable. Specifically, he saw someone sit on the Empty Throne. All the while, the people of the kingdom were noticing the sky getting darker, while the ousted king and his daughter demanded to be released. That someone, Imu, proceeds to cross off Lulusia on a map and the Five Elders order the signal to the Surveillance Den Den Mushis be cut, and as far as the Marines should be concerned, nothing abnormal was detected and no information was intercepted, and as far as anyone should be concerned about, Lulusia Kingdom never existed, as something ginormous lands on and completely obliterates the island. This cuts Sabo's connection to the army off, leaving his ultimate fate unknown.
A few days later, the Straw Hats are sailing in the climate range of a nearby Winter Island as the seas are filled with icebergs and strong winds. They then notice a huge column of water in the air, which Nami says is a warm eddy being forced upwards. Nami tells Jinbe to get everyone away, but Luffy and Sanji sense a woman trapped in the current. Zoro cuts the current in half using Yakkodori as Chopper walks out and gets swept away by the wind. Luffy's attempt to save him results in him getting swept away too, but the woman gets blown out of the current, and she turns out to be Jewelry Bonney (in her child form), with a new bounty of 320,000,000.

Luffy grabs Jewelry Bonney by the ankle as she wakes up, gasping for air. However, she reveals that not only was she being chased by a monster underwater, but that monster was now below the Thousand Sunny. She tells the crew to look down, and they do so to see a horrifying monster about to swallow them whole. They are able to get out of the way as the monster, which seems to be a giant metal shark, breaks the surface of the water and knocks the ship into the air.
Jinbe notices that Luffy, Chopper, and Bonney have fallen into the sea, and he asks Franky to take the helm while he dives in to rescue them. Franky activates the Thousand Sunny's Ship Bottom Rabbit Screw, and starts moving the ship away from the shark at rapid speed, but the shark fires several torpedoes at the ship, causing it to capsize and knocking everyone into the water. Jinbe grabs the three as he hears the explosion, and when he resurfaces, he sees that the current is too strong for any ship to steer through. The shark opens fire on him, but he has the three Devil Fruit users take a deep breath before he dives back down. The other Straw Hats, meanwhile, are unable to get back to the surface because of the current's strength, and just as the shark is about to eat everyone, a large robot appears from behind it and bashes it.
Meanwhile, on a nearby island resides Marine Base G-14, where Tashigi is caring for the children rescued from Punk Hazard. As Mocha says that she and the others have gone down in size, Tashigi's attention is interrupted by the G-14 commander and Vice Admiral Doll, who demands she do something to silence Helmeppo. Tashigi says she cannot, since she understands that he is worried about Koby, as is herself. Sure enough, Helmeppo and Marine HQ Commander Hibari (both of whom are part of SWORD) are begging Marine HQ Rear Admiral and fellow SWORD member Prince Grus to go with them to Hachinosu to rescue Koby. Grus refuses because of the fact that Hachinosu is Blackbeard's home turf. When Helmeppo suggests they get some Seraphim since they are so close to Egghead, Grus once again shoots down his idea, saying that no one is in any position to act, especially with them unable to contact Drake either. For now, all they can do is just try to remain calm until the situation changes.
With Luffy's group, Jinbe was able to get everyone to land, and while everyone dries off, Bonney, who has returned to her adult form, reminds Luffy that she is also a member of the Worst Generation, but while she considers him her enemy, she does thank him for saving her. She does ask about his wanted poster looking different, but all Luffy says is that is how he looks when he is "free." She asks if he is worried about his crew, and he says he is not since he trusts them completely, which causes Jinbe to ask her where her crew and ship are. Bonney tells him that she came alone, and her ship was eaten by the metal shark, before stating that she is hungry. Luffy realizes he is too and says they should find a restaurant, but Bonney reveals to him that they are nowhere near one, as the island they are residing on right now is called Egghead, the World Government-owned island that is said to be "500 years in the future", which also houses Dr. Vegapunk's research lab. She then tells Luffy that she has business with Vegapunk, which is why she is here.
As for the rest of the crew, the large robot picks up the Thousand Sunny, saving everyone from drowning. Everyone is surprised to see such a large machine as a woman steps out from the cockpit complaining about how she failed to program the metal shark to only scout, report, and fire on any ship it sees, but not to eat them, as it keeps her from salvaging them. Franky thanks her for saving them, but she clarifies that she was not trying to save them, especially since she works for the World Government. She then introduces herself as Dr. Vegapunk, leaving the entire crew in awe.

Reeling off the woman's declaration that she is Dr. Vegapunk, Franky tells her that he really respects Vegapunk's work, considering that he spent the two years separated from the crew in Baldimore learning from his projects. Usopp, meanwhile, is gushing over the woman's giant robot, and Sanji is elated to see that Dr. Vegapunk is a gorgeous woman. Robin, however, voices her suspicions that the woman is Dr. Vegapunk since she has never heard of the doctor being female. She also states that she is too young to be him as well. The woman confirms Robin's suspicions by revealing that she is not the "Stella," which is Dr. Vegapunk's main body; she is Punk-02 "Lilith".
Lilith tells the Straw Hat Pirates that her research budget is always strained, so she will release everyone and conclude her business with the Straw Hats if they hand over their valuables. Nami rebukes this notion and demands she continue saving them, but Lilith once again states she wasn't trying to save them. In fact, she considers them all trespassers, and every ship that comes near gets destroyed by her army of Sea Beast Weapons, which she summons to surround everyone. Everyone starts panicking, except for Franky, Zoro, Robin, and, to a lesser extent, Sanji, just as Lilith receives a call from someone.
The person on the other end is called "Shaka," who tells her she has no pride as a scientist by plundering. Lilith tells him to shut up because she's focusing on their budget, but Shaka informs her that she's dealing with the Straw Hat Pirates, who were just announced as an Emperor's crew. Lilith states she knows, meaning they must have treasure onboard, which is why she's robbing them, but Shaka tells her that she's underestimating them, especially since Zoro and Robin are acting so calmly because they know that even if they're surrounded, they can handle the Sea Beast weapons. Lilith realizes she's at a disadvantage, ashamed that she underestimated an Emperor's crew so quickly and easily, as Zoro informs Dr. Vegapunk that they have some demands for him. Interested in the pirates to begin with, Shaka agrees to accommodate the crew and asks that they be brought to him.
Meanwhile, on Egghead, Jewelry Bonney reveals to Luffy that she has been to the island before, when she was a kid. As the group make their way up to the island's surface, Bonney tells them that Dr. Vegapunk turned her father (who, unbeknownst to them, is Bartholomew Kuma) into a cyborg, which Luffy at first says is cool, until Bonney clarifies that her father has lost all sense of self because of it, and she wants answers from Dr. Vegapunk regarding it, even saying she will kill him if she doesn't like what she hears.
The group makes it to the surface as Luffy and Chopper immediately try to find something to eat, while Bonney remembers she saw Sabo at Mary Geoise, but she decides not to tell Luffy yet. They are left in awe of the theme park on the island, which also contains a giant robot and a giant space alien. Luffy slingshots himself towards the monster, which seemingly eats him, only for Luffy to harmlessly pass through it. Though initially confused, his, Bonney's, and Chopper's attention is turned to a giant parfait and other sweets. However, their attempts to eat it results in them also passing through it harmlessly. Even more confused, Bonney realizes that the sweets they see are holograms; 3-D images made of light, in other words, it's not real. Though this explains why Luffy wasn't hurt by the monster since it was a hologram too, he becomes furious over the food trick.
Chopper then notices a machine with various food signs on it, but Bonney thinks it's another hologram. Jinbe then speaks up and says that he noticed that the waters surrounding the island were cold, yet the island feels very warm. Just then, a large girl appears and explains that that is because she created an "Island A.C." to control the temperature of the island itself. Luffy is shocked by the large woman and attacks her, thinking she's a hologram too, only for the girl to punch him back in annoyance and knock him into the machine Chopper and Bonney were looking at. This results in the machine creating some food, which they quickly realize is real, and they proceed to start feasting on the machine's creations.
The girl tells the group that the machine is called the "Automatic Cooking Machine," which can produce over 500 different meals at rapid speed, provided there's enough food material. She also tells the three of them that she appreciates that they like her machine, but she says that it will only work if it is built according to the specs, and there aren't enough people, resources, or money in the world who can mass produce it, a sentiment shared by her A.C. unit. Her frustration over this fact causes her to punch the holographic monster, which surprises everyone. She explains that she has "Light-Pressure Gloves," which allow her to come into contact with light images as if they were real. Jinbe finally asks who the girl is, and she introduces herself as Dr. Vegapunk, specifically, Punk-05 "Atlas"! Everyone is left in shock by this, particularly Bonney, who assumes she is lying.
Elsewhere, CP0 agents Rob Lucci, Stussy, and Kaku are en route to Egghead with a Seraphim resembling Bartholomew Kuma. Kaku informs Lucci that while there is only one Dr. Vegapunk, his constant busy schedule leaves him not enough time to do everything. As such, he created six "satellite" bodies to split himself into, thereby giving himself more hands, even though they are all him. Lucci comments that he feels like the weird one for being the only one thinking that it is impossible and how geniuses are such a pain, and he says that their mission is to first return the Seraphim to the island, then eliminate every one of Dr. Vegapunk's bodies while keeping his lab intact. Lucci asks if the reason the World Government wants the smartest man in the world eliminated is because of the Lulusia Kingdom incident, but Stussy and Kaku remind him that they are not supposed to ask questions.

Bonney, Luffy, and Chopper finally finish stuffing themselves, with Atlas commenting on how huge everyone is now (though Jinbe points out that he was always rather large). A mechanical dog called the "Recycle-Wan" starts eating up the trash as Atlas goes back to work.
After she leaves, the group notices some other people walking around, and Bonney assumes they are assistants of some kind. Jinbe asks why they are appearing now since the whole place was empty just a minute ago, but his attention is turned to Luffy, whose outfit has now changed into something similar to what Atlas and the others are wearing. Luffy remarks on how good the clothes feel as Bonney asks where he got them, to which Luffy shows her another one of Dr. Vegapunk's inventions, which generates clothes.
Bonney uses it and changes hers to a battle uniform of some kind. Chopper changes into something similar while Jinbe dons a tropical shirt. Just as Bonney is about to part ways with the Straw Hats, Luffy sees what he thinks is Bartholomew Kuma coming towards them wearing a police outfit. The Pacifista charges the group and attacks them, stating that they have actually stolen those clothes. The group gets out of the way as Luffy decides to fight back. Just as he is about to attack the Pacifista, Bonney stops him and tells the three that Kuma is her father and the only family she has left. The Straw Hats are left shocked by this revelation as Bonney continues to plead with them to not hurt her father, but just as the Pacifista is about to fire on her, Luffy charges at her telling her, that that is not the real Kuma, as the Pacifista blows open a hole on the island.
Meanwhile, in a certain sea in the New World, the Blackbeard Pirates have ambushed the Heart Pirates. The Polar Tang starts taking on water as Law tries to find a place for him and his crew to escape. All of a sudden, Law turns into a woman. And soon, the rest of his crew start turning too. As everyone tries to get a grip on the situation, the ship surfaces, and Law turns back to normal, having learned from his fight with Kaidou and Big Mom that any Devil Fruit power can be overwhelmed by a great deal of Haki, which he used on himself.
As the crew reaches land, the doctor of the Blackbeard Pirates, Doc Q, comments on how Law was able to nullify his Feminization Disease he infected the crew with. As it turns out, Doc Q had eaten the Shiku Shiku no Mi, which allows him to craft and spread any kind of sickness. Also, with him were Van Augur and Jesus Burgess, both of whom consumed Devil Fruits as well; the Wapu Wapu no Mi for Augur, which allows him to teleport people, and the Riki Riki no Mi for Burgess, which gives him inhuman levels of strength. Augur warps Burgess to the island, where the latter picks up a mountain to throw at the Heart Pirates. Law manages to destroy it as Blackbeard comes flying in on Doc Q and his horse Stronger, which had consumed the Uma Uma no Mi, Model: Pegasus, a Mythical Zoan fruit that gives Stronger wings.
Blackbeard greets Law as the latter demands to know what the former wants. Blackbeard states that he knew one of the three of them would end up on this particular island after leaving Wano, but he was not sure who. He tells Law that he suspects Law claimed Kaidou's Road Poneglyph and that he plans on claiming Law's Poneglyph copies for himself. Law accepts Blackbeard's challenge, saying the winner takes all.

As Blackbeard gears up for another attack, Law tells Hakugan to take charge of the Polar Tang while Shachi and Penguin jump into the water. Blackbeard unleashes a Gurash that pushes down the Heart Pirates on land, but not before Law uses R-ROOM: Amputate to cut Stronger in half, causing Blackbeard to fall off as he admits his surprise at Law's Awakened abilities. Doc Q falls as well, but he manages to throw his basket of explosive apples at the Heart Pirates, only for Shachi to shoot a torrent of water at the bombs, destroying them in mid-air, to Doc Q's shock.
Penguin tells the Blackbeard Pirates that because he and the others grew up in the frigid North Blue port, they have an advantage in a sea battle. Bepo then uses his incredible hearing to tell Jean Bart about Van Augur's incoming shot on Law, prompting him to use himself as a shield to protect his captain, to which Augur comments on what a tough guard he has. Law then uses K-ROOM: Shock Wille to stab and zap Blackbeard from the inside out as Augur uses his powers to warp to his position. Augur tells Blackbeard that his injuries are a result of him charging in without a plan, and suggests they retreat. Blackbeard refuses and has Augur warp him to where Law is, as the latter comments on how Blackbeard managed to acquire Devil Fruit powers for all of his officers. Law points out the one weakness all Devil Fruit users share, but Blackbeard simply says that the trade-off is worth it.
The Polar Tang, meanwhile, starts attacking Blackbeard's ship, with some Blackbeard Pirate grunts growing a little panicked but calming down under the notion that Blackbeard will prevail. Their captive, Charlotte Pudding (who was captured by Kuzan and Augur at an earlier point in time), tells the grunts that if Big Mom is still alive, they wouldn't be acting so cocky, but they tell her that she is dead and they are fighting her killer, meaning that the new era is still being made. During Blackbeard and Law's clash, Sakazuki is informed of the battle, but is forced to wait to see the conclusion, causing him to call the job of being Fleet Admiral frustrating.
On Egghead, Jewelry Bonney uses her Devil Fruit powers to age Luffy and Chopper to old men, while Jinbe and herself are aged to young children in order to throw the Pacifista off their trail. Luffy tells Bonney that she can't stop him from fighting the Pacifistas even if they look like Bartholomew Kuma, with Chopper scolding him and apologizing to Bonney, saying their previous run-ins with Pacifistas have been less than pleasant. Jinbe says that the Pacifistas are clones of Kuma, so it makes sense that he would have a family. He then tells Bonney what he knows about Kuma so far.
According to Jinbe, Kuma was a wicked king who ruled over the Sorbet Kingdom before getting booted out by his people, after which he became a pirate. Later, he joined the Revolutionary Army until he was captured by the Marines and sentenced to life imprisonment. Dr. Vegapunk, however, found Kuma interesting, and as part of being allowed to be modified as a cyborg and cloned, he was granted freedom as one of the Warlords of the Sea. Bonney picks up a beam sword and tells Jinbe that the cloning and Warlord parts add up, but not the cyborg part, which she practically considers a death sentence. Jinbe admits this to be true but states that life imprisonment is one too, and wonders what crimes Kuma committed to award such a fate.
Filled with rage, Bonney strikes at the three, declaring that Kuma was never a tyrant, that he hated the World Government so much that he would never work for them, and believes he was experimented on by force. She returns to normal and changes the Straw Hats back too, while revealing that Kuma told her that she came from a special race, but that doesn't give Dr. Vegapunk the right to experiment on him and practically kill him by taking away his free will.
As for the Thousand Sunny, Lilith takes the crew high into the sky and drops them off on Egghead Island, with Labophase, the main research center, being situated on the clouds above the island, while the rest is referred to as the Fabriophase. As she mentions the trouble Luffy is causing at the lower level, Lilith brings herself and the crew to Labophase, where Zoro and Brook decide to watch the ship while the others head on. Lilith advises everyone to use the Trancos to change clothes before heading into the lab, though.
Inside the lab, Shaka speaks with Monkey D. Dragon, where he tells him that since he is so smart, he can see into the future. He then tells Dragon that he fears his imminent death is approaching, so he wants him to hear him out.

On the Thousand Sunny, Zoro tells Brook that the reason he chose to stay behind was because he wanted to make sure he could bail out the crew if they get caught, since they are on a World Government-affiliated island. Brook returns the sentiment regarding his decision to stay and the two drink some tea, while Caribou finally speaks up. He reveals that he made a deal with the crew for them to drop him off away from Wano, but he did not think they would head for a government island. Zoro, however, ignores his worries and tries to send him on his way, much to his anger.
Inside the lab, Usopp and Nami revel at the moving stairs while Franky asks Lilith how everything is powered, to which she says it runs on fire. Franky says that that will run through many resources, which is why Lilith says she is always on the lookout for new sources. She then proceeds to walk through a wall before receiving a call from Edison. She goes on ahead as the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates walk through the wall too. Edison introduces himself and has everyone walk straight ahead.
As they do so, Nami gushes at the idea that there may be "future treasure" on the island, which causes Usopp to comment that her tastes seem to vary between a little girl and an old woman, prompting Nami to angrily kick him. However, all five of them get their attention turned to an unexpected sight: one of the Seraphim units resembling Jinbe as a child. The group starts hypothesizing what he could possibly be, but Franky ends up correctly deducing that they were facing another Pacifista. His suspicions are confirmed when the Seraphim (labeled 04 S-Shark) fires a laser at the group, causing them all to scatter.
As they recover, Usopp laments that they may have been lured into a trap while Nami pulls out Zeus. Unfortunately, she cannot bring herself to fight back since the Seraph looks like a child, prompting S-Shark to make the first move and dive into the ground, similar to Senor Pink's Sui Sui no Mi powers, which Franky remembers. S-Shark jumps out of the ground and grabs Nami by the neck, prompting an enraged Sanji to deliver a fiery kick to its face. Robin follows up with Gigante Fleur: Sea Serpent Spank, but S-Shark dodges and prepares to use Fish-Man Karate on her, but Usopp shoots S-Shark with Midori Boshi: Dokuro Bakuhatsu So. Unfortunately for him, S-Shark dodges and emerges from beneath Usopp, grabbing him. Sanji moves to save him, but Franky opts to instead, firing Radical Beam at the Seraphim.
From afar, Edison watches the battle and is surprised to see Franky be able to use laser beams, which he considers risky for the Seraph since he has yet to put them through laser trials. Lilith, who was with him, agrees, saying that Seraphim are expensive to make, furious at the fact that the crew might have caused irreversible damage to S-Shark. Edison then comes up with an idea and flies off to jot down the blueprints, leaving Pythagoras with the task of watching the fight. Pythagoras does so, saying that battle data like this is hard to come by. As Edison works, he asks York to eat something, which she does.
As the fight continues, Pythagoras comments that S-Shark's attack patterns continue to develop as it grows, indicating that one's lineage factor can store some of a person's recollections and capabilities. As he considers solutions to problems arising from the Seraphim's accelerated growth, he grows uncomfortable due to needing to use the bathroom. Since he is so occupied right now, he leaves that task to York, who, after finishing, says how relaxed she is, which Edison and Pythagoras also say. Meanwhile, Atlas says she needs to punch something to help her digest. York then falls asleep.
Eventually, Shaka arrives and orders S-Shark to stop, while also scolding Edison, Lilith, and Pythagoras for using the Straw Hats for collecting battle data. He also magnetically sticks everyone's feet to the floor, which he says is because he still does not completely trust everyone. Shaka asks if everyone thinks the island looks like the future, to which Franky confirms he does. To his surprise, though, Shaka states that the island is actually from the past. When Franky inquires what he means, Shaka tells him that 900 years ago, there was a highly advanced kingdom that had more technology than today.
Elsewhere, Luffy's group comes across a junkyard and finds an ancient-looking but highly advanced robot, which Luffy and Chopper want to ride.

Franky is left incredulous at Shaka's claim that Egghead resembles an ancient city, but Shaka simply says it was a theory; evidence backed up by the tale of an archeologist who risked his life to discover the Great Kingdom, and one day found a machine that had the same manufacturing date his theory. A concerned Robin asks if the machine was built during the Void Century, to which Shaka asks how much she knows about it. In turn, Nami asks Robin how much she knows, but Shaka speaks up and admits Robin may find the story painful for her to remember, as Shaka knows that Robin's birthplace, Ohara, was destroyed 22 years ago by a Buster Call from the Marines, and he believes the reason was because they knew of the existence of the Great Kingdom.
Shaka continues saying that the Void Century is a period of war between the highly advanced civilization that once existed, and 20 other kingdoms, with the 20 kingdoms winning and eventually becoming the World Government. He also reveals that the World Government had tried to erase any knowledge about the Ancient Kingdom, because of their intention to have absolutely no one carry its ideals.
Nami and Usopp are left aghast by Shaka's tale, though Franky finds it romantic. Sanji asks Shaka if the people who knew about the kingdom are all dead, which Shaka confirms. Usopp starts freaking out as Shaka tries to assure that it was only a theory. He turns to Robin and tells her that if the people of Ohara were killed because of this theory, then that means the World Government knows it to be true. Robin grows defensive of Shaka's claim and tells him that the people of Ohara simply made a theory based on all the research they conducted, and if he could not simply learn the truth from the Government itself with his influence.
Shaka answers Robin that if he talks, he will die, whether he is affiliated with the World Government or not. Robin asks how Shaka is able to know all of this, since she believes that all of the books that Ohara had were destroyed. Shaka, however, states this to be untrue. He acknowledges the day Ohara was destroyed with only her as the sole survivor, as well as how the World Government labeled the people as evil with a desire to take over the world. About a month later, though, he decided to visit what remained, revealing that he was actually a close friend of Clover, Robin's mentor, which surprises her.
Shaka tells Robin that Clover was once an adventurer, and his interest in the Void Century was what compelled him to travel the world collecting books, even though it meant he would be captured by the Marines multiple times. In the end, he became the number one archeologist in the world before gathering all the other scholars in Ohara, making it a sanctuary for them, which is why he believes his ultimate fate was so tragic. When he went to Ohara, he saw that the scholars all gave their lives to save the books, which they threw into the lake to save from the fire. He surmised that if the Marines saw the books, they saw no value in them and left them, which Shaka considered a victory for the people of Ohara, to the point that it brought him to tears.
Shaka's story causes Robin to reminisce about the incident of the destruction of the island, and how her mother, Olvia, told her that she believes history is an "asset" for humanity, so they should not give up on the future she would live in. As her words were very similar to Shaka's about the importance the books had, Robin starts to cry, which mistakenly enrages the Straw Hats. Robin confesses to Shaka that Ohara did try to expose the truth about the Great Kingdom as he predicted, and asks about what happened to all of the books. He explains that at the time, he wanted to take them all to Punk Hazard, but knew it would be too risky if his superiors found out. However, he did end up meeting "those guys".
It turns out, when Dr. Vegapunk went to Ohara after it had been destroyed, he spotted some giants salvaging the books. As he begins to wonder if they know the importance of them, he gets spotted by Monkey D. Dragon, who was also an old friend of Clover. Vegapunk was surprised to learn this as Dragon tells Vegapunk that he checked out the giants and confirms they aren't bandits, and they know of the value of the books. He also tells him that their captain is a strange man with bandages all over his body, and who said he "won't let the assets that Ohara left become erased from history". Dragon concludes that he is relieved that the World Government didn't destroy the books, though he said that including Vegapunk with them.
Vegapunk tries to defend himself, but Dragon refuses to hear it, as he had previously invited him to join his Freedom Fighters, yet he chose to side with the World Government. Vegapunk claims that him being a genius would not have been able to help them, and reasons that even within the World Government, there would be people who would listen to him, so Dragon should not be losing his objective. Dragon admits this to be true but cannot help himself from being angry over the fact that the World Government killed thousands of innocent and powerless people over something as trivial as an "unreasonable opinion". As a result, he declared he would make an army who can fight it; he will not let Clover's death and the Will of Ohara go in vain, even if he is a man who despises war. It was from that point on that the Revolutionary Army came to be, with Emporio Ivankov and Bartholomew Kuma helping him found it.
At the end of Shaka's tale, Nami calls Dragon a passionate man, while Usopp is surprised to hear the giants came from Elbaf. Robin also admits her surprise that Dragon knew Clover, and Franky asks Shaka why he remodeled Kuma, and why he saved them that day. Shaka, however, says that since the books didn't fall into the World Government's hands, he secretly visited Elbaf and read them, meaning he himself knows all about Ohara and the secrets of the world, which is helping him progress his research. Robin begins to smile and asks if the captain's name is Jaguar D. Saul, and though Shaka does not exactly say that, only that he is hiding and no one knows where, Robin deeply thanks him and asks he not let Ohara's battle go in vain. Shaka confirms he will not, as he considers himself an ally to every scholar, as is his nature as a researcher. Shaka then activates everyone's shoes and has them follow him, wanting to show them something.
Meanwhile, down in the Fabriophase, Luffy and Chopper see no place to ride the giant robot, making them think it is automatic. Chopper tries to make it move but fails, and Luffy tries to call it by its name, which also fails, and causes Jewelry Bonney to refer to them as children. Just then, someone appears stuck inside the robot's armor while begging for help, as his warping experiment had failed. Luffy helps the man out, and Bonney identifies him as Dr. Vegapunk, the main body. Vegapunk recognizes that Luffy is Dragon's son and that he knew he would come, before looking at Bonney and acknowledging how grown up she is now. Luffy's attention, however, is turned to Vegapunk's shoes, which are making him float. Vegapunk shows him and Chopper how to do it too, but ends up shooting himself too high into the air, prompting him to ask for help again.

Bonney asks Dr. Vegapunk what happened to his head, considering how its formerly enormous size last time they had seen each other. Vegapunk simply says that he cut it, a statement that leaves her flabbergasted that he can compare his head to simple hair. Vegapunk explains that he ate the Nomi Nomi no Mi, a Paramecia Devil Fruit that allows him to store every tiny detail of knowledge, which causes his brain to grow continuously with all the new information. Granted, he was already born a genius, the Devil Fruit simply expanded upon that.
Chopper is left in awe over Vegapunk's claim that his brain is still growing, even separated from his head, while Luffy asks if he became stupid after cutting it, which irritates Vegapunk. He explains that the apple attached to his head is an antenna, and it transmits information to the rest of his brain, which is contained in the backside of the giant egg on the island, which is dubbed "Punk Records". Vegapunk also explains that each of the satellites are clones of him, each one containing an exact copy of one of his personalities, all increasing the amount of work he can do, and that once a day, he syncs their experiences and knowledge through Punk Records, which Jinbe believes is because they all share the same brain as him.
Vegapunk says that Punk Records is very much like a giant library, in that people around the world can access his brain and help themselves to his incredible knowledge. He also believes if mankind can continuously update Punk Records, he could create a sea of knowledge far beyond his brain, with which he can share with all of the world. Chopper gushes over Vegapunk's accomplishments, while Jinbe questions if he would encounter issues with ideology, which Vegapunk says should not be too focused on if one wishes to advance the field of science. Bonney, however, becomes livid, telling Vegapunk that he is still the same as when last they met: a man who is willing to sacrifice everything for the sake of science, like her father, Bartholomew Kuma. She draws the beam saber she picked up earlier on Vegapunk despite his claim that it is a failed product. She demands he turn Kuma back to normal as Jinbe tries to calm her down by reminding her how many enemies she will create if she kills the smartest man alive. Vegapunk then tells Bonney that the reason why the beam saber is a failed product is because it keeps attracting insects, and as if on cue, several of them swarm towards her, causing her to faint from shock.
Chopper tries to check on her as Vegapunk admits Bonney has every reason to want him dead, but he shifts topics to that of his Artificial Devil Fruit, as he had heard rumors that there was another dragon in Wano other than Kaidou. Luffy confirms this as Vegapunk tells him that he considers it a failed experiment, even though he spent twenty years researching Kaidou's Lineage Factor. Luffy, however, states that the Devil Fruit is not a failure because it allowed Momonosuke the same capabilities as Kaidou himself. Vegapunk, however, reveals that he considers it a failure because the dragon's color is pink, in contrast to Kaidou's azure, causing Jinbe to call him a die-hard perfectionist.
Luffy asks Vegapunk if he can move the large robot they found, as he thinks he built it, but Vegapunk tells him he did not. He also reveals that it once attacked Mary Geoise 200 years ago, and was built more than 900 years ago. Vegapunk himself does not know why it was built, but he knows that it was not able to destroy Mary Geoise because it ran out of power. The researchers of the time were left wondering where it came from and what its objective was, but the World Government ordered it to be destroyed. The researchers, however, hid it to continue studying it across the generations.
On the Labophase, it is revealed that the thing Shaka wanted to show the Straw Hats was the ancient robot itself, and that they saw and heard everything the real Vegapunk said. Robin remarks that 200 years ago was when Fish-Men discrimination started, and Shaka tells everyone that they built the large robot Lilith was piloting earlier, Vegaforce-01, based on everything they have learned from the ancient robot. His only problem is being unable to replicate its power source. For the moment though, the crew is relieved to see that Luffy is okay. Back with the original Vegapunk, the former admits he hurt Bonney, which Luffy agrees with, but he says there is something he wishes to give to her. He then asks Luffy if he can help him escape Egghead.
Off the coast of the island, CP0 arrives and asks to be allowed to harbor. Stussy says that Jewelry Bonney is on Egghead as well, to whom Rob Lucci calls her an eyesore who has escaped multiple times. However, they see no more use from her and decide to kill her if they run across her. Pythagoras tells Shaka that the World Government is here, and they have CP0 with them, Rob Lucci included. Lilith suggests he be let in, but Usopp and Nami demand he not be let in due to their past dealings with him. Shaka tells Pythagoras to intercept them and deny their request.
On Momoiro Island, Kuma starts moving, perplexing the Revolutionary Army. Despite not being able to move properly, he still tries to run off, collapsing and getting back up multiple times. This causes Dragon and Ivankov to ask him to stay, as their battle as the Revolutionary Army is now beginning.

Pythagoras thanks CP0 for returning the Seraphim to Egghead and says that it can make its way back on its own. He also says that they can leave since their mission is now complete, but the agents are not so easily convinced. Kaku, in particular, tells Pythagoras not to be so cold to them since they spent a long time trying to reach him, so he should at least show some hospitality. However, Pythagoras says they should try the G-14 Branch instead. Rob Lucci decides to speak to Pythagoras and asks him if he knows anything about a missing ship near Egghead Island.
When Pythagoras asks for clarity, Lucci explains that two months ago, a ship from CP5 disappeared, and a month ago, a ship from CP7, and from approximately two weeks ago, one from CP8. He asks why none of these World Government ships have been seen or heard from again, and Pythagoras says that he should have confirmed they had all departed, but Lilith takes the Den Den Mushi from him and angrily accuses him of blaming them for the ships' disappearances. Pythagoras manages to get Lilith to stop talking and hangs up on Lucci. In response, Lucci asks that the Seraphim, dubbed "S-Bear", needs to use its abilities to get everyone to the island, meaning they would abandon ship and have it be destroyed by the mechanized Sea Beasts. On Momoiro Island, the Revolutionary Army continues chasing after Bartholomew Kuma, who uses his Devil Fruit powers to warp off the island.
In the Scrapyard, Luffy asks Dr. Vegapunk why he wants him to take him off the island, especially since his lab is here. Vegapunk admits this to be true, but also says that he has completely used up all of the World Government's research funds and has been doing as he pleased since then. Despite this, he does not possess the manpower or resources required to continue bringing his ideas to fruition. He then announces that his big dream is to use science in order to create a world where energy would be provided for all, free of charge. Luffy does not exactly understand, and Jinbe tells him that resources that produce energy are often fought over by other countries, thus resulting in war. Vegapunk confirms and says that energy exists everywhere in the world, and he wishes to convert it to usable power, thereby removing the need for such wars.
Though he does not quite understand yet, Luffy, while stating he does not wish to be a hero, says that a person who wants to make others happy is good, but he still wonders why he wants to leave Egghead. Vegapunk says that the energy he seeks to find was what powered the ancient robot, and in trying to find it, he has had to explore the Void Century and ultimately discover the truth. Just then, they hear an explosion, and Vegapunk says that since he had delved too deep, the World Government wants to kill him. He also speculates that CP0 has arrived, and further speculates they are responsible for that explosion, resulting in Jinbe and Vegapunk to tell Luffy what CP0 is compared to CP9.
In the meantime, Lucci, Kaku, Stussy, and their troops have arrived in Fabriophase, with Kaku left in awe over the futuristic island. The people see them and are left confused by their unique appearances and arrival as they note that two Sea Beasts were destroyed. Pythagoras tells Shaka that CP0 managed to invade Egghead, causing Usopp and Nami to freak out. Seeing how they were so willing to sacrifice their ship and use S-Bear to strike against them, Shaka decides to respond in kind. He orders all researchers to evacuate and has Atlas head back to the Labophase while also having S-Shark, and the Seraphim clones of Dracule Mihawk and Boa Hancock (dubbed "S-Hawk" and "S-Snake" respectively), ready for battle, with Sentomaru in charge of commanding them.
Back in the scrapyard, Vegapunk asks Luffy if he will take him off the island, to which the latter ultimately accepts,  even though the deciding factor was because Vegapunk's head is so strange. Nevertheless, Vegapunk expresses his gratitude and tells them to bring Jewelry Bonney with them to Labophase, and that they should all leave before Fabriophase becomes a battlefield. With that, Vegapunk teleports away, leaving Luffy and Chopper surprised.
Meanwhile, the CP0 agents are confronted by Vegapunk's holograms. Their guns fail to work and Kaku's attacks are proven futile as well, even though he was enthusiastic over fighting something like a space monster. Stussy tells everyone that it is just a hologram, much to their annoyance that she did not mention that fact sooner. Lucci admits that Stussy is well informed, and she says being on Egghead is nostalgic for her. Kaku decides to fly above the cloud that Labophase is on, but Stussy points out two lines on the cloud. She then says that if someone crosses that line, then lasers will be fired, as what Kaku passed was the "Frontier Dome" that serves as an interception system that protects Labophase. Kaku ends up getting blasted and falls back down to the ground, prompting both him and Lucci to tell her not to be so coy and tell them these things beforehand.
Eventually, Atlas arrives on the scene and tries to fight them, but Shaka warns her that she is no match for them, and he is proven correct when Lucci transforms into his hybrid form and attacks Atlas with Rokuogan, destroying half of her face in the process. Atlas collapses, prompting all the researchers to start evacuating, as Lucci notes that Atlas is still alive. Just then, Luffy and the others arrive on top, and he and Lucci lock eyes.

All of the researchers start fleeing after witnessing Atlas fall to Rob Lucci, whom Chopper remembers. Lucci's attack makes Jinbe realize that CP0 came to kill Dr. Vegapunk, but Luffy asks Lucci why he is here. Lucci points out that Egghead is still under World Government jurisdiction, and Chopper tells Luffy that they need to go. Kaku expresses his annoyance at encountering the Straw Hat Pirates again and Jewelry Bonney, but he tells Lucci that since Luffy is considered an Emperor now, he cannot engage him in combat without permission, something Stussy agrees with, and Luffy instead has his presence reported to headquarters.
After Luffy leaves Bonney in Jinbe's care, he runs over to the downed Atlas in shock and asks Chopper to tend to her, which he does, but he later states that Franky may be better suited to handling the likes of her. Lucci tells Luffy to stay out of Government affairs, but Luffy tells him that Atlas was kind to him and to his group.
At Marine Headquarters, Sakazuki is told that the Straw Hat Pirates are on Egghead, causing him to wonder if Vegapunk called them because he had anticipated that they had been coming for him. He learns that Kizaru is already enroute to Egghead and he orders that Lucci not engage the Straw Hat Pirates at any cost. Unfortunately for him, Lucci, having grown fearful of Luffy's power, does indeed start fighting Luffy. Everyone tries to take cover from their duel as Vegapunk's other Satellites and the Straw Hat Pirates watch the fight from Labophase. They notice that Lucci looks different now, and Shaka says that Lucci has awakened his Devil Fruit, and sometimes it can drastically rob the user of their personality, which is the reason why Lucci refused to wait until getting permission to engage Luffy.
Dr. Vegapunk then appears behind his Satellites and the Straw Hats, and he asks the crew if they know what Luffy's new form is called, as he too had gone into his awakened form. Nami says she does not know and assumes it is just part of the Gomu Gomu no Mi, but Vegapunk tells her that the name does not exist in the Ancient Devil Fruit Encyclopedia, much to her shock. As they watch, Vegapunk tells the crew that Luffy's appearance resembles an ancient god, which Sanji finds incredulous to believe. Vegapunk, however, continues saying that the god is the "Warrior of Liberation", the one who is always playful and who makes others smile: the Sun God Nika. Nami admits she has never heard the name before, which Vegapunk says is because it was erased from history, but according to him, if the people yearn for it, then its existence will never disappear.
Vegapunk says that "the desires of all things are born in the world," and that Devil Fruits are in the same boat. He tells the group that Devil Fruits are the embodiment of what people wish they could become, and the reason why the sea, which he calls the "mother of all nature," makes Devil Fruit users unable to swim is because it considers these wishes to transcend the world people wish to live in as "abnormalities". His theory leaves the Straw Hat crew completely stunned.
During Vegapunk's speech, Luffy and Lucci were fighting one another in their awakened states, with the fight being very similar to Luffy's fight with Kaidou. As they fight though, Sentomaru arrives and asks Vegapunk what he is supposed to do since he believes CP0 is supposed to be their allies. Vegapunk explains that they have come to kill him and asks if he can drive them away from Egghead, which Sentomaru does not like the idea of since that would make him a traitor too. Vegapunk then reminds Sentomaru that in the past, he rescued Sentomaru from poverty, so he should decide what to do for himself. Ultimately, Sentomaru agrees to fight back against CP0.
When Sentomaru arrives with S-Shark, S-Snake, and S-Hawk, CP0 see him and Kaku tries to order S-Bear to take him down, but Stussy says that is impossible. She is proven correct when Sentomaru takes control of S-Bear and has it attack CP0. Stussy says that the rank of authority the Seraphim follow is very different from the Pacifistas: The Five Elders have the highest authoritative chip, Vegapunk and his Satellites having the second, Sentomaru the third, and at the bottom whoever else. Additionally, not even the Five Elders can command the Seraphim over a Den Den Mushi. Kaku adds that Seraphim are a huge asset to the World Government which means they cannot destroy the cyborgs, and he curses Lucci for seemingly not thinking this through.
Luffy uses an attack called Gomu Gomu no Mogura Pistol that causes him to stretch his fist into the ground and redirect it up to Lucci's chest to hurt him. Sentomaru orders S-Snake to guide the Straw Hat Pirates to the Frontier Dome using "Vacuum Rocket" and orders S-Hawk and S-Shark to hold off CP0. Chopper and Jinbe notice the Seraphim and Jinbe is surprised to see that the former Seven Warlords of the Sea were cloned. Luffy sees Sentomaru who asks if he is seriously going to take Vegapunk off the island, which Luffy confirms he will. Just then, Lucci stabs Sentomaru with Shugan and he falls, with Lucci saying that all they need to do is take down the "control tower" to get the Seraphim under their control.

Luffy runs to Sentomaru and apologizes to him for distracting him. Sentomaru, however, tells Luffy that he foresaw Lucci's attack, but he was not fast enough to block it. Lucci tells Sentomaru that he needs him out of the picture if CP0 is to take command of the Seraphim. As he tries to attack him again, he gets intercepted by Luffy, who spins around and slams Lucci far away into a wall with a move the former calls Gomu Gomu no Dawn Whip.
Jinbe calls to Luffy and tells him that they need to get to the real Vegapunk in order to save Atlas, but Luffy ends up spinning himself so hard that he cannot stop himself from doing so, and he even unintentionally heads towards the opposite direction of his crew. Meanwhile, the Seraphim continue to push back CP0, with Kaku saying that they are unstoppable, and even if they destroyed them, they would still consider it a loss. Stussy even adds that the most terrifying aspect of it all is that the Seraphim are still only children.
Up on the Labophase, Franky asks Vegapunk if the ability that S-Shark is using is the Sui Sui no Mi that Senor Pink ate, and if it means Senor Pink is dead now since there can be no two users of the same Devil Fruit at the same time. Vegapunk tells Franky that Senor Pink is in fact alive and confined in Impel Down, and Franky ask in response if Vegapunk copied his Devil Fruit. Vegapunk clarifies that he is only capable of replicating Zoan Devil Fruits, which he considers the process of doing so vastly different (and more acceptable) from Caesar Clown's SMILE production. He also says that with unlimited resources, he could replicate even the special types of Zoan fruits, though he is not sure if he can get them to awaken. He says that he tried to replicate Logia fruits, but found it to be very complicated. For Paramecia fruits, however, he found an alternative method of replicating their powers by synthesizing blood from a Paramecia user's Lineage Factor, i.e. the "Green Blood" flowing through S-Shark, S-Bear, and S-Snake right now, which allows the latter two to use the Nikyu Nikyu no Mi and Mero Mero no Mi respectively. Vegapunk concludes saying that the Seraphim are the culmination of all of his ideas and may go down in history as the most powerful beings that ever existed in the world. Franky is left in awe as Nami realizes that this was the reason the Seven Warlords of the Sea had been abolished, while Usopp panics over the nature of what Vegapunk has just created, with Sanji and Robin even adding that they consider the Seraphim a threat to them.
Down in Fabriophase, Lucci recovers and charges for Sentomaru once again, but Luffy intercepts him again and tries to bite down on him. Lucci sidesteps him and Luffy fires the rubble he chomped down on at Lucci, who either tries to dodge or destroy. Luffy then backs up into a pipe that he makes rubber and fires himself at Lucci at rocket speed in a move he calls Gomu Gomu no Dawn Rocket, nailing him square in the chest. Lucci goes flying once again as he calls Luffy's Devil Fruit insanely powerful, and that he's starting to lose consciousness. Chopper and Jinbe are then directed by S-Snake to the Vacuum Rocket, which will take them up to Labophase. Jinbe thanks her and says that it is nice to see a kind version of Boa Hancock for a change, though S-Snake claims she was only following orders.
With only one minute before the Vacuum Rocket departs, Chopper once again calls to Luffy. Sentomaru tells Luffy that he trusts Vegapunk with him and his crew, and he promises to help him escape. Luffy then heads for the rocket and changes back to normal. The speed of the rocket ends up waking Jewelry Bonney up as they arrive in about 32 seconds. After which, the rocket shuts down and the Frontier Dome becomes fortified, with all the researchers being told to barricade themselves until the intruders have been dealt with. As for Sentomaru, he ultimately passes out, which now means that CP0 can command the Seraphim. Stussy suggests they wait for the Marines but Lucci says it will take too long. All they can do now is block the exits to ensure that neither Vegapunk nor the Straw Hat Pirates escape.
As for the Straw Hats, Nami asks why the World Government wants Vegapunk dead if he is such a valuable ally to them, to which Vegapunk says that they fear he will turn his vast intellect against them, despite never having such intentions. Nonetheless, Usopp and Franky agree to let Vegapunk on board their ship, with Franky in particular gushing at the notion of Vegapunk inspecting his ship. Meanwhile, Luffy's group manage to find a place to get Atlas patched up as Bonney leaves to confront Vegapunk once again, saying that if he cannot turn her father back to normal, then she has no choice left but to kill him, even though others noted that she had simply lashed out in anger.
Out at sea, Kizaru makes his way to Egghead with a fleet of warships. He says that theoretically the Straw Hats teaming up with Vegapunk will make for an easy escape, but he does not intend for it to be so.

Bartholomew Kuma crashes into the Red Line and falls to the Red Port. His sudden return after escaping Mary Geoise throws the port's citizens into confusion and turmoil. As he stands up despite the damage to his body, an announcement advises the citizens to avoid him and to evacuate the area. The Marines are contacted to confront him as his current programming and purpose are unknown.
On Egghead, despite having ordered the troops and Seraphim to block off all possible escape routes, Rob Lucci says that the Frontier Dome is a real nuisance to him. Stussy asks Lucci if he is serious about ignoring the Marines' order to wait for backup. Lucci confirms, stating he does not acknowledge Luffy as an Emperor. Meanwhile, in Labophase, Shaka comments that CP0 is blocking off all exits, and has most likely destroyed all ships they could use to escape. Lilith is excited, however, at the prospect of fighting back and avenging Atlas, but Pythagoras points out that CP0 cannot reach them. Shaka advises Lilith against going out to attack them. Edison announces a new invention idea, while York asks if something fun is happening.
Lilith asks Shaka why they cannot fight back, and Shaka tells her that their main objective is ensuring that Dr. Vegapunk, who is the main body, escapes unharmed. As such, he views himself and the other Satellites as expendable (a statement with which Vegapunk himself seems to disagree) but feels that Lilith running off on her own will just cause more trouble. Vegapunk apologizes to Sentomaru for what happened to him. When Pythagoras mentions another ally on the island, Edison advises against it because calling said ally would mean they would have no place to hide if they end up in the World Government's sights. Nonetheless, Vegapunk calls the ally, and they respond that they will help, as they have been waiting for this day. Edison remarks that escape should be easy now and Lilith says she will take everyone to the port with Vegaforce-01. Vegapunk then turns to the Straw Hats (whom he has finally freed) and asks that they take all seven of them to the Thousand Sunny, with mixed feelings from the crew.
Meanwhile, in the lab's interior, Luffy and Chopper are chasing after Jewelry Bonney, who mistakenly believes Vegapunk used bugs against her on purpose. Luffy tries to stop her because he promised to help Vegapunk escape unharmed just as he hears a noise. For some reason, the Frontier Dome's defenses have turned off. CP0 takes advantage of this sudden malfunction and infiltrates Labophase. After spotting the Thousand Sunny, Kaku tries to destroy it with Rankyaku "Amane Dachi", but it gets blocked by Zoro, who was woken up from his nap in response. Kaku is surprised to see his old adversary again. As the Satellites get the Frontier Dome back online, they realize that they were too late in keeping CP0 out. They also notice that unless they do something, they may lose their ride off the island, which means they may have to fight back.
Luffy, Chopper, and Jinbe eventually reunite with the rest of the crew, and Luffy learns that they plan on leaving soon. He asks if they have seen Bonney, and Robin realizes Dr. Vegapunk is missing. As it turns out, Bonney is chasing Vegapunk, who desperately asks her to listen to what he has to say. Bonney refuses and demands to know if Vegapunk can turn Kuma back to the way he was. Vegapunk confesses that it is impossible to do so, but adds that there is a reason for it.
Somewhere in the New World, the Kid Pirates find themselves approaching Elbaf, while at G-14, Doll tells Monkey D. Garp that she cannot afford to spare any of her men, especially since he plans on confronting Blackbeard. Garp tells her to not be so uptight as she asks if he cleared his mission with the brass, which he says he did not, much to her dismay. Still, he announces that he has already arrived at the base, and he then calls for Helmeppo. The former tells Garp that Koby has been kidnapped and how powerless he feels that he could not stop it, but Garp tells him to get on board as he plans on launching an attack on Hachinosu to rescue him.

Jewelry Bonney changes into a child and starts crying that she broke something. Feeling sympathetic, Dr. Vegapunk walks up to her to see if she is okay and calls for medical attention, but this turns out to be a trap from Bonney; once Vegapunk gets close enough, she changes her appearance to look muscular using a special move called Distortion Future, and tries to attack Vegapunk with a pipe. She misses as Vegapunk pleads with her to spare him, but she uses another attack called Toshi Tsuki, and this time, she hits Vegapunk. As a result, Vegapunk's age gets literally knocked out of him and assumes various shapes, while Vegapunk himself regresses to that of an infant.
Bonney picks up the now helpless scientist and explains that her powers do not affect living things permanently, but now she wants him to tell her exactly why he took Bartholomew Kuma's personality from him. Vegapunk says that if he does tell her, the truth will only hurt her. He also tells her that he promised Kuma to keep his secret from her no matter what. As he says that, Kuma himself starts climbing the Red Line. He gets blown off but continues to fight back against the Marines.
Back at Egghead, Bonney refuses to believe Vegapunk's words, especially when he says that Kuma voluntarily gave up his humanity, but no matter how hard she tries, he refuses to say anything more about his "secret". Bonney then sees a huge door with a bear paw print on it, and deduces it is connected to Kuma. She opens the door by aging the lock and finds a huge paw-shaped bubble. This causes Vegapunk to flashback to the past when he was with Kuma and how he told him a story about a scientist from West Blue hypothesizing that a person weighs 21 grams less after dying, indicating that the lost weight is the person's soul. He found the story fascinating and wonders if things like memories and imagination have mass and volume too, intending to use Kuma's Nikyu Nikyu no Mi powers to help prove that as it allows him to take intangible concepts and give them physical form and even transfer them to others. Of course, Kuma surmised that Vegapunk wants Kuma's memories and at first, he refused, but it seems he ultimately gave in. In the present, Vegapunk begs Bonney not to touch the bubble, calling it nothing but pain strong enough to kill someone. Bonney, however, tells Vegapunk that she is very familiar with her father's powers, and that what is in front of her is his memories.
While on the Labophase, Nami is freaking out that Rob Lucci was able to invade the facility, but Usopp says that as long as Zoro and Brook are guarding the Thousand Sunny, they will be okay even if the battle is 2v3. That is, though, before Shaka points out that the Seraphim have joined, leaving the battle 2v7. Interestingly, Shaka tells the Straw Hats that the Seraphim have the limited capacity to make decisions on their own, and that is most likely the reason why they are backing up CP0 on the Labophase despite not being ordered to by them. This poses as a positive thing for the Straw Hats as it means that if Vegapunk's Satellites can issue a command to them, they can regain control as their authority is higher than both CP0's and Sentomaru. Edison and Lilith head off to try and regain control, with Sanji and Franky taking off to back them up.
On the Thousand Sunny, Zoro and Brook witness Kaku in his Awakened state, but Zoro remains confident that he can handle him while Brook watches the ship. Kaku attacks Zoro with a move called Kyoku Bigan "Kirimanjaro", swirling his neck around while firing his nose. Zoro, however, blocks the attack and deflects his head. Lucci then orders the Seraphim to destroy the Labophase before Vegapunk arrives, and they start laying waste to the lab.
Suddenly, Stussy bites on Kaku's neck and puts him to sleep. Lucci is left confused by Stussy's actions as she tells Lucci that she will be putting him to sleep too while large bat wings sprout from her back. As it turns out, Stussy is actually a clone of Miss Buckingham Stussy, who was a member of the Rocks Pirates and the very first successful clone of MADS.

Though completely caught off guard by Stussy's sudden betrayal, Rob Lucci moves to attack her, but she sidesteps him using Kami-e "Zanshin" and jams her lipstick tube-which contains a piece of Seastone-into his neck to prevent him from transforming. Stussy then bites Lucci's neck, putting him to sleep as well. Zoro and Brook are both left speechless by this surprising turn of events as Stussy contacts Shaka to inform him that she incapacitated both agents, revealing that she was the ally Dr. Vegapunk reached out to previously. The rest of the Straw Hats are left amazed that Vegapunk was able to sneak a spy of his own into the World Government's intelligence branch without them ever knowing her true identity, though Shaka reveals he never intended her to join them.
Despite having removed the threat, Stussy tells Shaka that her authority is the same as Lucci's, so she cannot override his orders nor stop the Seraphim. Edison, however, tells Stussy to fall back and let him and Lilith handle the Seraphim. Zoro and Brook try to stop them too just as Lilith exits the lab. Just as she is about to issue an order, S-Hawk spots her and tries to kill her, but Zoro protects her by clashing blades with S-Hawk. Edison takes the opportunity to issue the order for the Seraphim to stand down just as S-Shark tries to shoot him. Thankfully, he is saved by Sanji, and the Seraphim finally stand down. Stussy then informs Shaka that she has bound Lucci and Kaku with Seastone and he asks Stussy to join them, which she accepts. Meanwhile, Luffy and Chopper wander the lab in search of Bonney and Vegapunk.
Meanwhile, on Sphinx, Whitebeard's hometown, Marco is informed by the people that while he was away, the Marines invaded trying to claim Whitebeard's treasure, with some of the people calling the bunch no different from other pirates. The leader of the attack was Marine Captain Ratel, who showed no qualms telling the people of Sphinx that because they are not affiliated with the World Government, he would not hesitate to kill all of them in order to claim Whitebeard's treasure. To prove his point, he tried to shoot an old lady who badmouthed him, but thankfully, he was sent flying away by an unexpected savior in the form of Edward Weevil.
Weevil's phenomenal strength ensured that the invading Marines were forced to retreat, if only to wait for backup to handle him. Marco thanks Weevil for his actions as his mother, the original Miss Buckingham Stussy (now known as Miss Buckin), shows up and tells him that Admiral Ryokugyu was dispatched to aid the Marines and that, as a result, Weevil ended up getting captured. She tells Marco to rescue Weevil and find Whitebeard's inheritance for her, but Marco's tone suggests his doubt to Buckin's claim that Weevil is Whitebeard's son. This causes Buckin to say that the only person who can confirm her words is none other than Dr. Vegapunk himself.
Meanwhile, Admiral Kizaru is accompanied by one of the Five Elders: Saint Jaygarcia Saturn. Kizaru asks him if he has ever met Vegapunk before, and the latter says he had once met him a long time ago, and now he feels what is transpiring now is a shame.

World Government officials find themselves under attack by a different model of Pacifista, this one capable of generating a "Bubble Shield" from its hands that can defend against any attack, causing it to be called the strongest shield Dr. Vegapunk has created. This model is dubbed "Mark III", far surpassing the prototypes used during the Summit War of Marineford. The attacking Pacifista, PX-III 041, demands the agents surrender and move to Factory B. They do so as they question who was able to give it commands. The one responsible turns out to be Sentomaru, who has woken up and is currently being treated for his wounds. He realizes that the Frontier Dome has been closed and he can no longer contact Vegapunk, and on top of that, the Marines have been looping their communications so he cannot get any updates. Still, now that he has rebelled, he will continue to do as he pleases. As such, he orders all 50 Mark III Pacifista to mobilize and ensure that the Straw Hat Pirates escape Egghead safely with Dr. Vegapunk, and also to keep an eye on the coast as the Marines are acting strange.
In the Labophase, Luffy is resting after all of his running around and fighting, which also resulted in his shoes breaking. He asks where Vegapunk and Jewelry Bonney are, to which Shaka says that Bonney is still within the building, as it is constantly being monitored. Zoro, Brook, and Stussy make their way inside with new outfits and Shaka tells everyone present (including Atlas, who was repaired) that the Stella has disappeared, and also that they have lost control of the Frontier Dome, meaning no one can leave lest they be destroyed by the security system.
Shaka tells everyone that they need to find the Stella while he himself repairs the Frontier Dome. Franky asks if searching would be pointless since he is not popping up on any monitor, and Shaka admits this to be true, surmising that the Seraphim caused some damage that may have caused their Cameko Surveillance to either be incapacitated or moved out of position, resulting in a blind spot where the Stella may be. Pythagoras contacts Shaka and tells him that there is no one on the third floor in Building C, and he asks him to check the next one. Nami decides to go and find him, thinking that the faster they do the faster they can leave the island (and she hopes to get some treasure from him). The other Straw Hats and Stussy decide to help find him, but when Zoro decides to go, Sanji and Chopper stop him, knowing he will just get lost himself. As such, Luffy and Zoro are left behind to watch over the captive Lucci and Kaku.
Meanwhile, in Room Nikyu, Bonney finds herself within the memories of her father. She sees him as a child crying, but is unable to do anything as she watches some other people force him to come back, saying they will all die if he does not. Kuma vehemently refuses, saying he would rather die himself. He gets caught and beaten by the other people, where he begs to be saved as Bonney watches with tears in her eyes. She gets ejected from the bubble and she realizes she needs a strong resolve to keep watching his memories, determined to make sure she understands everything about her father. As Pythagoras continues to search for the Stella, someone approaches him from behind, and an explosion goes off in part of the lab.
On his news balloon, Morgans has received information about what is transpiring on Egghead. He decides to write an article portraying Luffy as Dr. Vegapunk's kidnapper while the World Government are trying to save him. He believes that if the world finds out that the World Government is trying to kill a man who has changed the world so much with his accomplishments, there will be severe backlash, and hopes to be rewarded by the government by painting them in a good light. Nefertari Vivi, who was with him, angrily tells him that Luffy would never do something like kidnapping, and she voices her disgust with his newspaper. Wapol, who was also there, begs her to keep her voice down, fearing that the government has agents watching and listening in on them.
Morgans tells Vivi she has no right to interfere with his work after she spent the previous day crying her eyes out. He also tells her that he does not care if his stories are lies or the truth, as long as they are entertaining, since he is the only one who can shake up the world.

Shaka tries to reach Pythagoras following the explosion he heard, but he receives no response. He sends a Cameko to search the tower, but someone takes it out, cutting off the security image. Luffy realizes that the communication device he is wearing does not operate any longer, as if all communications have been cut off. Luffy tells Shaka as he tries to contact the other Satellites, but one-by-one, all of the Cameko go off, making him think that someone else is in the Labophase causing trouble.
Throughout the Labophase, everyone is searching for Dr. Vegapunk. In Tower A Floor 3, Nami and Brook are traveling with Edison. Nami gets sidetracked by diamonds she finds and wants to keep despite Edison telling her that their priority is finding the Stella. When he tells her that they were manmade, Nami is left in awe over such achievements. On Floor 2, Chopper and Robin are with Atlas, who reveals that her face is a mask and she can replace whatever part of her gets damaged. Robin then notices something which Atlas reveals is an artificial organ, which amazes Chopper, though Robin notes she thought Vegapunk had gotten chopped up, much to Atlas' discomfort.
In the B Tower, Sanji and Jinbe have gone with Stussy, with Sanji swooning over her and asking if she would call him a dog, while she flirtatiously reminds him to find Vegapunk. Jinbe acknowledges how huge the part of the lab they are in is as Stussy reveals that they are on the weapon's manufacturing floor, so they can't be setting off any shockwaves. As for the last group, which consists of Usopp, Franky, Lilith, and York, the four head to Tower C. They end up finding Pythagoras' body, albeit with his head missing. Thankfully, Pythagoras turned out to be fine, as he had detached his head from his body before he sustained damage. He starts freaking out over what happened just as York walks over to S-Snake. She tells her to wait outside since Edison ordered her to stand down, but instead, S-Snake petrifies York. A confused Lilith tries to get her to stop, but S-Snake ignores and fires a laser at the four. It destroys the bridge they were on and they all fall, though they land safely. Lilith tries to reach Shaka but fails to do so, and when Franky suggests they fight back, Lilith tells him it is impossible to beat a Seraphim.
Back in Tower A, Luffy and Shaka meet up with Zoro as they see that S-Bear and S-Hawk have breached the room. Despite Shaka's attempts to make them stop, the two Seraphim open fire. Thankfully, they evade their attacks while also saving the unconscious Lucci and Kaku, who were in the Seraphim's sights. Shaka begins to fear that Vegapunk himself is commanding the Seraphim if the Satellites cannot get them to stop. He also realizes that someone is trying to kill everyone by trapping them and cutting off communications, and that they set up this situation very carefully. Lucci and Kaku then wake up and ask Luffy and Zoro to set the two of them free, offering that they form a truce and work together to survive. Luffy and Zoro respond with a look of disgust.

Zoro tells Lucci and Kaku that he does not see a future where after they uncuff them, they would let them cuff them later. Kaku states that they will let them restrain them again, which seems to convince Luffy to help them out, despite Zoro claiming that Kaku is lying to them. S-Hawk then unleashes a powerful flying slash attack with his leg, causing Zoro to realize that the Devil Fruit power S-Hawk is using is the Supa Supa no Mi, used by former Baroque Works agent Daz Bonez. After moving out of the way, Kaku uses the fact that he has to save them again as reason for letting them help if it means escaping alive.
Shaka asks the two agents what their mission is, and Lucci bluntly replies that their mission is to terminate Vegapunk and his Satellites, much to Kaku's annoyance that he would give away that information so freely when he was trying to convince the enemy to set them free. Shaka asks if Stussy is on that hit list given her betrayal, which Lucci also confirms. All of a sudden, they hear Nami screaming, which Zoro realizes it means that the other Seraphim are on the loose. Ultimately, Luffy agrees to set Lucci and Kaku free and asks Shaka for the keys. Shaka gives Luffy the keys, saying that he will trust his judgment as long as the Stella escapes safely. Luffy turns to Lucci and asks him if he will not go after his friends once the Seraphim are dealt with. Zoro does not believe they will fall for a taunt like that, but Lucci does, telling Luffy that he wants to kill him first and then go after his friends. S-Bear then fires an Ursus Shock, but at that point, both CP0 agents have been freed. Luffy assumes Gear 4: Boundman and uses Gomu Gomu no Kong Gun while Lucci assumes his hybrid form and uses Rokushiki Ogi: Rokuogan to simultaneously attack S-Bear. Zoro and Kaku team up against S-Hawk, blowing him back with Rengoku Oni Giri and Rankyaku "Hakurai", respectively.
Meanwhile, deep within the lab itself, it is revealed that all of the CP5, CP7, and CP8 agents that had been sent to the island have all been imprisoned for the last two months. Apparently, when the agents finished their investigation of the island, they tried to leave but were attacked by the Sea Beast weapons, who forcefully brought them back. All of the other agents that followed suit ended up meeting the same fate trying to find their colleagues. The kicker was that they all assumed Dr. Vegapunk was responsible, but he is revealed to have been imprisoned with the rest of them. Vegapunk admits he had no idea any of this was happening, and finds it baffling that word of his research into the Poneglyphs was leaked to the World Government somehow. The Marines are then revealed to be deploying about 100 ships of all sizes from branch G-9 en-route to Egghead.
In a small port, on a certain island, a kid asks Shanks if he can take him with him on his next journey. Shanks refuses, since the kid is a little hot-headed, much to his annoyance. Rockstar arrives and informs him that they are under attack, and if they should fight back. Shanks ultimately agrees, regretting that he let it get to this point due to him reconnecting with some old friends of his whom he believed to be dead. His friends turn out to be Dorry and Brogy, the former captains of the Giant Warrior Pirates who finally left Little Garden and returned to Elbaf, the island Shanks is currently on. The two giants happily agree to help him out, as Shanks asks Rockstar to send a message to their attacker, who is Eustass Kid; the message being "surrender the Road Poneglyph rubbing he has or risk a fight with him".
On the outskirts of the island, Kid realizes that practically every pirate ship they see belongs to big shots who all swore fealty to Shanks. Killer reveals that the last time they tried to fight him, it was a completely one-sided fight; Kid never even got a chance to see Shanks. This time, Killer fears that Kid might die in this next confrontation. Kid however, is not scared, believing he will die only if he loses the fight.

Sentomaru orders that everyone on Egghead flee the island. When they ask him why, Sentomaru tells everyone about Ohara, which was completely destroyed because they defied the World Government by studying Poneglyphs. If the World Government is deadly serious about killing Dr. Vegapunk, it is because they have weighed all of the potential scientific consequences and have chosen to eliminate him anyway. As such, he is very certain something even worse than that day will occur on Egghead. In his mind, he desperately asks Luffy to hurry up and leave the island with Vegapunk.
While in the Command Room, Luffy, Lucci, Zoro, and Kaku are struggling to do any lasting damage to S-Bear and S-Hawk. It then occurs to Zoro that the two Seraphim resemble King the Conflagration, from the Beasts Pirates. Shaka is surprised to learn that Kaidou had a Lunarian in his crew but Zoro tells him that he did not know what exactly he was. Shaka realizes King is Alber, who fled Punk Hazard with Kaidou. Shaka confirms that the Seraphim were made using King's Lineage Factor, prompting Zoro to tell Luffy, Lucci, and Kaku to watch out for the flames on the Seraphim's backs because when they go out, they get faster but lose their defense. He apologizes to everyone for not seeing the connection before, especially since King's defining characteristics are his dark skin, black wings, white hair, and fire, much to the other three's clear annoyance that he did not. At that point, Shaka leaves the room, telling Luffy he has an idea as to where Vegapunk is.
In Building A, Nami's group has crossed paths with S-Shark, who has knocked Brook's head off his body and heavily damaged Edison. As a result, Nami decides to fight back against the Seraphim, even if it looks like Jinbe. She summons Zeus and has him use Raitei to electrocute S-Shark from the inside, which seems to hurt him, while she sobs and apologizes to Jinbe. Unfortunately, S-Shark dives into the ground just as Brook reattaches his head to his neck. He warns Nami to watch out, but S-Shark emerges and grabs her, but just as Brook is about to retaliate, Sanji charges in and sends S-Shark flying in a rage, determined to beat the Seraphim to a pulp for hurting Nami.
In Building C, Lilith is furious that S-Snake petrified York, so she shoots her with her Bubble Gun. It grazes her shoulder but causes her to fall over, and Lilith says it is because the bubble was made from the energy of the sea, and since S-Snake has blood synthesized from an existing Devil Fruit user, she can fall prey to the sea. Franky tries to subdue her but because S-Snake was just grazed, she gets back up quickly and knocks Franky away. She fires a laser at Usopp and Lilith, but Franky traps her under a large bubble. However, S-Snake pleads that she is suffering, causing Franky to drop his guard long enough for S-Snake to break free and petrify part of his body with Perfume Femur. Lilith fires several bubbles at her, but she dodges them all and charms both her and Usopp before turning them into stone with Mero Mero Mellow.
Underground, Shaka finds all of the Cipher Pol agents and Dr. Vegapunk contained in a lab that was previously used for Devil Fruit research. Shaka is left perplexed by this revelation as Vegapunk asks him who is currently with him. Shaka turns around to see who he is talking about, only to be shot in the head, much to everyone's horror. Shaka collapses as Vegapunk hears footsteps, with a look of horror etched onto his face.

Stussy informs Sentomaru that Admiral Kizaru is en route to Egghead, and that CP0 was to wait for his arrival after eliminating Dr. Vegapunk and his Satellites. Sentomaru comments on how serious the World Government is while Stussy tells him that this event may become even bigger than Ohara's destruction, the main reasons being that Vegapunk continued studying the research of Ohara, and that Egghead has the firepower to repel an attack, which Ohara could not. Before she hangs up, Stussy tells Sentomaru to call her if anything unexpected happens since all communication has been cut off in the Labophase. After she hangs up, Sentomaru tells the islanders that they can't hesitate and they all must flee the island before the Marines arrive, which they all start to do.
In Building C, Franky (who is only partially petrified) demands S-Snake undo the petrification she did to him, Lilith, and Usopp, claiming that he can still fight with the part of them that isn't stone. S-Snake ignores him, however, and turns to Pythagoras. He demands to know who ordered S-Snake to do this, but all she does is stomp on and crush him, resulting in a huge explosion. As she starts to walk away, Franky tries calling her again. On the second floor of Building A, Chopper, Robin, and Atlas are flying around looking for Vegapunk. Robin has deduced that the Seraphim are rampaging and the others may be fighting them off, which means those people cannot move from wherever they are situated. Atlas says that she may have an idea as to where the Stella is and the two follow her lead. On the third floor, Nami tries to help Edison while Brook decides to go look for Vegapunk, while Sanji continues his fight with S-Shark.
On the fourth floor, Zoro realizes that S-Bear and S-Hawk's flames are not going out, but Luffy notices that S-Hawk has left the room. Lucci says that S-Hawk is choosing to prioritize killing the weaker members of the crew and save the more troublesome members for later, thinking they will be too rattled to fight effectively. Zoro immediately runs after S-Hawk and Luffy tells Kaku (whom he comically calls "Usopp", much to Kaku's annoyance) to go with him since he can get lost easily. Luffy resumes fighting S-Bear, but Lucci tells him that this is not an enemy that he can defeat with brute force. Meanwhile Bonney is still looking through her father's memories, and what she is seeing has brought her down to her knees and she begins crying profusely.
Around three months ago, someone contacted the Five Elders and told them that Dr. Vegapunk was researching the contents of the Void Century. CP5 was dispatched to investigate but they found no evidence, yet the ship that left with them suddenly disappeared. CP7 and CP8 were dispatched to investigate but they too disappeared. Then, the mysterious person contacted the Five Elders again, and eventually they came to believe that Vegapunk had betrayed the World Government. Choosing to assassinate him, CP0 was dispatched to handle the situation, and one of the elders chose to go in person as they expected Vegapunk to retaliate. Reinforcements were requested from various Marine branches, meaning war was looming on the horizon. However, the Straw Hat Pirates' presence has made the entire organization uneasy. In any case, the outcome of these particular events would shake up the entire world.
Down in the hidden lab, the person who shot Shaka enters the lab as Vegapunk demands answers. The person turns out to be York, who evilly tells Vegapunk that she wants to become a World Noble. Vegapunk angrily asks why she would want to be such a thing since she has been to Mary Geoise in the past and seen how horrible they are, but York just laughs and says that he sounds like Shaka, though she now considers him dead. York then tells Vegapunk that she thinks it's too confusing that so many people are walking around calling themselves Vegapunk, and that the world will be better off with just one, i.e. her.

A few hours ago, York learned that the World Government wants her dead too, but fortunately, she has a plan to counter it. She orders the four Seraphim to terminate everyone trapped in the lab except for herself, the Stella, and their hostages. She does acknowledge that she is not strong enough to fend for herself should the others find out she was responsible for letting the Seraphim run amok, which is why she ordered S-Snake to petrify her as if York had her guard down and then undo it when no one is looking. She then tells her the places in the lab she does not want destroyed before sending the Seraphim on their way. Unknown to everyone on the island, a ship belonging to the Blackbeard Pirates arrives off the shore.
At Elbaf, several pirates loyal to Shanks tell Eustass Kid that he will have to go through all of them first if he ever wants to see Shanks. Kid is unconvinced that the pirates standing before him, captain "Ball Fingers" Gerotini of the Puddle Pirates, bandleader "Memorial Blade" Fugar of the Social Club, and princess "Trembling" Pururu of the Bourgeois Pirates are fleets of the Red Hair Pirates, but Killer reminds him that there are several big names in the fleet, so he should not let his guard down.
Shanks tells the other pirates to clear out so they do not get harmed, revealing that despite their reputations as fierce pirates, the subordinates of the Red Hair Pirates are very weak, and they need the Emperor and his crew to protect them. The subordinates cheer for Shanks as he boards his ship. He asks if Kid's wounds from Wano have fully healed but Yasopp says he looks fine if he is willing to pick a fight. Shanks accepts this and asks for any updates on Blackbeard, where he is told that he left Hachinosu, with Shanks remarking he was sure he would pop up in Wano. Following this, Shanks is given information on Kid, and he calls him a troublemaker. When Kid forms his railgun to launch Damned Punk at the fleet, Shanks foresees the damage it will cause, warning the fleet to spread out and telling Dorry and Brogy to watch his rear while he moves for Kid's ship. Moving to stop Kid's attack, Shanks approaches the Victoria Punk, catching Kid off-guard and instantly defeating him with Kamusari. The Kid Pirates panic out over their captain and combatant being taken down and beg Shanks not to kill Kid, even giving up their Road Poneglyph rubbings to appease him. Shanks, however, ignores them and jumps from the ship while Dorry and Brogy perform their combined attack Hakoku, completely destroying the Victoria Punk; they tell the Kid Pirates that if they point a loaded gun at someone's hometown, they better expect to meet the same fate.
The Kid Pirates fall into the sea, while the narration says that at Elbaf, the Kid Pirates, led by Eustass "Captain" Kid, who has a bounty of 3,000,000,000, were completely destroyed.

On Hachinosu, several pirates report that Koby has escaped prison and is now running free. Several of them are thrilled by this revelation, as Koby has a rather high bounty placed on him by Cross Guild for a Marine-ranked "Captain": five stars; one star equals one treasure chest of loot. Suddenly, the skull-rock face starts speaking, saying that it is sensing a tickle on the left side of its chest, which is where they all keep their slaves. The pirates realize all of their slaves are trying to flee, but are told that they need to be kept alive or Blackbeard will be informed. The voice, as it turns out, belongs to Avalo Pizarro, who has consumed the Shima Shima no Mi, meaning he can now merge with the island itself, allowing him to see, feel, and hear everything that transpires on the island.
Koby quickly realizes that his and the other slaves' positions have been revealed, so to protect everyone, he offers himself up as a decoy to keep the heat off the others. Shiryu, who was with Pizarro, points out that he could just catch Koby and the slaves all by himself since he has merged with Hachinosu, but Pizarro refuses, telling Shiryu that Blackbeard gets mad at him for causing too much damage. Vasco Shot asks if he can handle the situation then, as he too has eaten a Devil Fruit - the Gabu Gabu no Mi - which lets him manipulate alcohol. However, because of that, Shot's idea is that he sets the town on fire so they have nowhere to run, resulting in Pizarro scolding him and telling him that that would also upset Blackbeard, especially since they just finished repairing the damage from the Rocky Port Incident. Shot, at least, points out he would be more careful than Sanjuan Wolf due to his size, as he has consumed the Deka Deka no Mi, which allows him to enlarge his already giant body.
Koby's plan works and he starts being chased by pirates, though he realizes that escaping on foot will be impossible, but thinks it is worth it for the sake of the others. In a flashback, it is revealed that the reason Blackbeard kidnapped Koby was so he could use him as a bargaining chip. He came up with a plan where he would have Hachinosu recognized as a full-fledged nation, by the blessing of the World Government, and become its king; and in exchange, Blackbeard will return Koby to them unscathed and with grace. Koby calls his plan insane and that he is wasting his time with him since he is a member of SWORD. When Blackbeard questions what that is, Kuzan, who is present with him, informs him what SWORD really is.
According to Kuzan, Marines affiliated with SWORD are not recognized as such on paper; Koby and the other members have surrendered their "Marine codes", and since they have resigned their commission, they can operate without certain protocols holding them back, such as being able to pick a fight with an Emperor without authorization. He also reveals that the World Government can disavow members of SWORD at any point in time, meaning that an attempt to use Koby as leverage would be a moot point for the Marines could very easily sever all responsibilities and ties they have with Koby. Though Blackbeard understands and is even impressed of this new knowledge, he refuses to change his mind about his plan, confident that Koby's status as a hero would mean the World Government would not cut him loose, or the public will be enraged. He even says that if things go south for him, he will do significant damage to the World Government's reputation; and as insurance, he will have Koby's captivity publicly leaked so neither the Marines nor the Government could deny that fact. Until then, he wanted Koby locked up.
As Koby continues to be chased, he remembers how Perona was the one who freed him in return for his help freeing Gecko Moria, who was also imprisoned. He then hears an explosion and learns that Marines are on the island, though he humbly believes they did not come just for him. The attacking Marines prove to be very strong, with one of them getting his head chopped off only to reveal that he is made of clay, and therefore impervious. On top of that, some of the buildings start moving, which several pirates see is the result of a woman named Kujaku, a Marine Rear Admiral and the granddaughter of "Great Staff Officer" Tsuru who ate the Muchi Muchi no Mi, which lets her tame anything she whips including inanimate objects.
Koby is ultimately cornered, but when the pirates try to shoot him, their gunpowder explodes into flowers. Several of them realize they are Dr. Vegapunk's GP Flowers, and the one responsible was Hibari, a sniper. She contacts Prince Grus, who has eaten the Gunyo Gunyo no Mi that allows him to manipulate clay, hence the clay soldiers, and he informs her that both he and Kujaku have the situation under control.
By this point, several pirates have been trapped by the buildings Kujaku forced to move and surround. With no means to escape, a Marine ship launches itself high into the air, commanded by Monkey D. Garp. Garp jumps off the ship and completely decimates the pirates with his Galaxy Impact attack, calling it retribution for kidnapping his irreplaceable protege, who he considers the future of the Marines.

Garp lands on the island and Prince Grus uses his Devil Fruit powers to cushion Garp's ship's fall. He tells the pirates that if they so much as blink, he will hurt them bad, only to see that everyone was already unconscious. He comments that he feels he has lost his touch, which leaves the other pirates incredulous after all the damage he caused. He sees Koby and Hibari run to him as Helmeppo cries tears of joy that Koby is okay. However, Hibari is suddenly frozen solid, courtesy of Kuzan, who is revealed to be the tenth Titanic Captain of the Blackbeard Pirates.
Koby begs for Kuzan to thaw out Hibari, but he refuses, saying that it would look bad for them if Koby escaped while Blackbeard was away. As it turns out, roughly a year after Kuzan's battle with Sakazuki for the position of Fleet Admiral on Punk Hazard, the Blackbeard Pirates crossed paths with Kuzan drinking in a bar. Blackbeard asks Kuzan why he froze his crew, including the massive Sanjuan Wolf before demanding he undo it, but Kuzan tells him to calm down while warning him not to use the Gura Gura no Mi and risk shattering his frozen crew. Kuzan says his crew were the ones who decided to pick a fight with him. Eventually, the former admiral does thaw everyone out and he ends up having a drink with Blackbeard and his crew as he talks about his battle against Akainu, showing off the loss of his left leg that he regularly has to replace using the Hie Hie no Mi while commenting that though Akainu was not as badly injured, he was not completely unscathed either.
At one point, Catarina Devon asks Kuzan if he knows anything about "the man marked by flames". When Kuzan inquires what she means, Jesus Burgess tells him about the Road Poneglyphs and how Kaidou and Big Mom are known to have one each, however, they do not know the location of the other two but heard a rumor that "the man marked by flames" has one. Kuzan jokingly says he is the one they are talking about. However, neither of them believes him, and Laffitte says that this man sails a pitch-black ship and anyone who sails close to him gets swallowed up by a whirlpool. Shiryu believes the man works for the World Government, reasoning that they would want to hide one of the Road Poneglyphs to prevent other pirates from finding the One Piece.
Kuzan tells the Blackbeard Pirates that the Poneglyphs only give him bitter memories; though he says he did not see a red Poneglyph on Ohara, he mainly remembers his friend and Nico Robin, and how he chose to take fate into his own hands. The others are not moved by Kuzan's sob story as Laffitte asks Blackbeard if they should kill him and take his Devil Fruit for themselves. Kuzan hears this and gets angry, but Blackbeard tells him that he has no intention of doing so. In fact, he wants Kuzan to join his crew. Kuzan refuses to join up at first, but Blackbeard points out that he considers his pirate crew a gang of people looking out for their own interests. Besides, he does not work for the World Government anymore, so he can do whatever he wants.
In the present, Garp demands Kuzan thaw out Hibari, but he tells him that he has always admired how direct Garp is, and it is because of that he wants to do things on his own terms. He asks if Garp can seriously kill his former number one protege to save his new favorite as he freezes him with Ice Ball, but Garp breaks out and reminds Kuzan that he taught him to live in the now. He then tells Kuzan that only weaklings lose their way as he grabs him by the face and slams him through the ground with a move called Blue Hole.
Meanwhile, on Winner Island, Blackbeard has defeated Trafalgar Law and destroyed the Polar Tang. He tells Law that the pirates whose hearts he stole at Rocky Port, to join the Seven Warlords, are still on Hachinosu and he should probably kill him and bring his heart there as a trophy. As Teach debates on what to do once he has the Ope Ope no Mi, Bepo attacks him in his Sulong form, which he was able to assume outside of a full moon thanks to a special drug Chopper gave him. He buys himself enough time to grab Law and jump into the ocean, but Law tells him to go back for the crew. Bepo tells him that he cannot do so, but he has faith they will survive as he desperately begs his captain not to die.
The narration then declares that the Heart Pirates were soundly defeated on Winner Island.

News of the death of Vice Admiral T Bone starts spreading rapidly throughout the world. Sengoku asks Tsuru if the culprit has been found. However, she replies the culprit has not been found, though she is certain the family of the culprit will be financially secure following this. Sengoku is in disbelief that the people they swore to protect are betraying the Marines, but Tsuru considers it indeed believable, especially since T Bone was killed in Pepe Kingdom, which is said to lose over a thousand people a year to starvation. Of course, she is not defending the culprit, she is just saying that if this is what Buggy had in mind, they may have been underestimating him this whole time. Sengoku says that this means they need to stomp out the Cross Guild soon or the Marines will become very weak morale-wise. Sengoku asks Hina where Garp is because he wants him to try out a new rice cracker flavor, but she tells him that he told her he was off to "save Koby," meaning that he was with SWORD on Hachinosu, along with Kujaku, much to Sengoku and Tsuru's surprise and annoyance.
On Karai Bari Island, the man responsible for T Bone's death meets with Buggy, where he reveals that his people received the payment for his bounty. Buggy praises him for his actions even if it means the Marines will be looking for him, but the man says he is fine as long as his family survives. This leads to Buggy telling the man that he will induct him into his crew just as he is told that the Cross Guild's ship is finished. Much to his displeasure, Buggy's overzealous followers make him the mast of the ship, which severely enrages Crocodile and Dracule Mihawk.
Following this, Crocodile and Mihawk punish Buggy by beating him up and dangling him from a hook while discussing the success Cross Guild is gaining. In order for the two of them to establish their utopia, though, they need money and power. Buggy speaks up and tells the two of them that they are going about their scheme the wrong way. Crocodile and Mihawk were surprised that Buggy would dare speak against them.
Buggy tells the two that due to circumstances neither he nor Shanks were able to go to Laugh Tale. He admits he felt he could never measure up to Shanks back then, but he was surprised to learn that he was choosing not to go to Laugh Tale yet following Roger's execution. Buggy knows now that Shanks is finally making his move, and through some shape or form, both of them are on equal footing. As such, Buggy is reigniting his dream to become Pirate King, and suggests that all of them seek out the ultimate treasure in addition to their desired dream.
Crocodile and Mihawk are left unmoved by Buggy's words, refusing to believe they would just carry him to the top including having no interest to fight Shanks, Blackbeard and Luffy, especially when he does not have a plan of his own. Buggy, however, says they just need to scramble for the treasure, and he is willing to prove this by contacting his entire crew via Den Den Mushi and announce that they will be moving to claim the One Piece. This ends up lighting a fire in several of the crew, as they all set out to sea for this very reason, though it leaves Crocodile and Mihawk furious that Buggy would pull off such a stunt.
On Momoiro Island, the Vice Captains of the Revolutionary Army, Ushiano (Morley's subordinate), Ahiru (Belo Betty's subordinate), Gambo (Lindbergh's subordinate), and Jiron (Karasu's subordinate) notice a ship in the distance and start making bets about who is on it. To the Revolutionary Army's relief, the person on the ship is Sabo, alive and well, and carrying with him refugees from Lulusia Kingdom. Koala starts attacking Sabo for going radio silent for so long, but he tells her he did not have a choice because he could not get his hands on an Encryption Den Den Mushi, so any calls he would have made would have been monitored. He did send an indirect call signal to let them know he was alright, and as it turns out, he was not even on Lulusia at all when it was completely destroyed. Belo Betty remembers most of the people from Lulusia and learns they want to join the Revolutionary Army, though she tells them all to get some sleep first.
Later, Monkey D. Dragon, Emporio Ivankov, and Sabo all sit together where Sabo learns about Bartholomew Kuma, who Dragon believes had a contingency installed to ensure his return to Mary Geoise. Ivankov deduces that Sabo does not want the other commanders to hear what he has to say. Sabo confirms this and proceeds to tell everyone what really happened at the Levely.

Sabo tells Dragon and Ivankov that his side accomplished everything they set out to do; they destroyed the World Nobles' symbol and declared war, they rescued Bartholomew Kuma and freed as many slaves as they could, and they managed to destroy Mary Geoise's food reserves. Dragon tells Sabo that his actions got the Marine's attention and kept most of their forces' eyes on him, while the Revolutionary Army's influence sparked twelve nations to take up arms, eight of which were successful, with the exception of Lulusia, which has been annihilated. As such, the seven nations are no longer paying the Heavenly Tribute nor exporting natural resources. Ivankov adds that the Revolutionary Army is attacking World Government supply carriers all over the world to keep resources from reaching the Holy Land.
Ivankov considers this a huge success, as now, the people of Mary Geoise can see what it is like to be deprived of food and money. Dragon admits they are not cutting off all of their supplies, but they are definitely putting the squeeze on them. He knows, of course, that the World Government will not accept this situation and will dispatch God's Knights, which Dragon says is the real battle once they mobilize. Ivankov tells Sabo that he will be the Knights' main target, while Dragon tells him that regardless of what happened with King Cobra's assassination, he is a hero in the eyes of the people.
Dragon says that in the eyes of the rebellious, authority figures in the World Government are treated as the enemy, but with that said, he acknowledges there are intelligent and fair rulers; Nefertari Cobra was one of them, but sometimes news does not travel accurately. Sabo admits it is cold to say this, but he confesses he can live with the way things turned out if it helps fuel the flames of rebellion, something Dragon admires. Ivankov then demands to know what happened as he shows a picture of Sabo standing over Cobra's body in the newspaper and confesses everyone wanted to believe he did not kill him.
In a flashback over a month ago, the Revolutionary Army attacked Mary Geoise not long after the Levely began. Several World Nobles started fleeing out of fear, and one tried to kill their slave for being too slow, but he is saved by Karasu, who steals the Noble's gun and tells the slave to escape to the east of the city. The World Noble's bodyguards open fire on Karasu, but he takes no damage. As it turns out, Karasu ate the Susu Susu no Mi, which allows him to turn his body into soot and morph it to his will. With it, he dispatches his attackers using a move called Obelisusu. Meanwhile, Lindbergh uses his inventions to free several slaves as Karasu notifies him that the Admirals are on their way. It is not long before Karasu finds himself fighting Fujitora, using a move called Karasu Renkon to match Fujitora's gravity powers. Elsewhere, Morley is fighting Ryokugyu, though several World Nobles demand Ryokugyu be more careful about collateral damage, or they will hang him, forcing Ryokugyu to hold back. When he asks Fujitora what he is doing, Fujitora reveals he is about to call down a meteor, which Ryokugyu says is a bad idea.
On the outskirts of the city, Jabra, Blueno, Kalifa, Fukurou, and Kumadori, who are all now members of CP0, watch the carnage and admit how tough the Revolutionary Army is to be able to contend with the likes of two Admirals.
Karasu then contacts Sabo, who was at Pangaea Castle trying to get the keys for the slaves' collars. Sabo also tells Lindbergh that he sees Saint Charlos and his father Rosward riding Kuma, as well as telling him that Charlos still plans on making Shirahoshi his slave. In the end, Sabo contacts Morley to make sure everything is ready while he initiates his plan to save Kuma and stop Charlos.
In addition, Jewelry Bonney was running around the castle grounds too in search of her father.
Meanwhile, Rob Lucci follows Nefertari Vivi, who is looking for Vice Admiral Garp to protect Shirahoshi. Vivi denies Lucci's help, following his refusal to help Shirahoshi earlier. She also says that she is sure that Charlos would try to kidnap Shirahoshi again, and she wants to make sure he cannot.
Back at the castle, Cobra is told that only he can have an audience with the Five Elders. Pell and Chaka try to refute this, but Cobra has them stand down, instead asking them to look after Vivi for him and not let her out of their sights.

Sabo defeated several guards within Pangaea Castle when Jewelry Bonney appeared before him, to his surprise. She told him that since they were after the same thing, they should just work together now. Sabo accepted, revealing that he had heard that Bartholomew Kuma had a daughter. Once he got the keys to the slaves' collars, Bonney told Sabo that she had been keeping tabs on the Revolutionary Army's exploits, so she knew that they were trustworthy to care for her father's body. Sabo handed the keys to one of Karasu's soot crows and told Karasu to pass on the message that Morley and the others should get Kuma and the slaves to Headquarters as fast as possible. As Karasu accepted the keys, he told Sabo to be careful. Sabo then asked Bonney what she would do next, and she told him she would journey to Egghead to see if Dr. Vegapunk could undo his alterations to Kuma's mind.
Before she could tell him what she would do if Vegapunk was unable to do so, Sabo sensed some guards and the two hid from them. The guards commented that they were short-staffed, and one of them mentioned that some guards had seen the "Lost Chamber", which piqued Sabo's attention. After Sabo and Bonney exited the castle, Sabo wished Bonney luck and she told him to look after her father for her.
Elsewhere, the Five Elders asked King Cobra what he wanted to speak to them about. Cobra told them that he knew the World Government had been founded 800 years ago when twenty monarchs had come together, along with their families, to live as one clan, the World Nobles, and rule over their world. At first, the twenty monarchs had treated each other equally and installed an Empty Throne to ensure that no dictator would try to rise up from them, placing weapons before the throne to symbolize the vow of never sitting on it. Afterwards, new royal families had been hand-picked to rule the nations the founders could not watch over anymore, and to ensure a smooth transition, all references to the previous monarchs had been removed from their home countries.
Cobra said that the sole exception was the monarch of his own kingdom: Queen Nefertari Lili, who had chosen to remain ruling over her people in Arabasta, which is why there are only nineteen weapons at the feet of the Empty Throne. The Elders confirmed his story and asked what his point was, and Cobra said that through all the accounts chronicling the period after the Void Century he managed to scrounge together, Lili's name was not mentioned once. To Cobra, he believed Queen Lili never made it back home, and the ruler of the country ended up being her younger brother. To that, he asked if they knew what exactly happened to her. Saint Jaygarcia Saturn said that because it was so long ago, the details of what exactly happened to her were lost to the annals of history. Cobra then asked the Five Elders what the secret name "D." meant. When one Elder asked what prompted this question, Cobra revealed that a short letter had been passed down from generation to generation by Lili.
Outside in the public courtyard, Saint Charlos made his move on Shirahoshi, having Kuma tie her up in chains. Charlos started dancing over his "accomplishment" and gushed over the idea of riding her everywhere and harming her if she defied him. She started begging for someone to save her, but the bystanders were too scared to interfere and all ran away pretending they had not seen a thing. Her brother Fukaboshi rushed to save her, apologizing for looking away earlier, which had allowed Charlos to seize her. His brothers Ryuboshi and Manboshi joined him, but Charlos simply told Kuma to blast them as he proclaimed that he could buy permission to do whatever he wanted, especially against Fish-Men and Merfolk.
Rebecca and Leo saw Shirahoshi being assaulted, and Sai asked Saint Donquixote Mjosgard if he could hit Charlos, to which Mjosgard said Sai could and he would take responsibility for it. Mjosgard told Fukaboshi to restrain himself since he was of royal blood, but for Leo and Sai, since the two were pirates, Mjosagard thought it was easier for them to escape since they were bound to no country. Charlos tried to blast Mjosgard for hitting him earlier, but Leo and Sai attacked Charlos simultaneously and practically flattened him with their attacks. All the nearby people started panicking over the possibility that Charlos was dead and that the Admirals would be summoned. As Kuma was about to fire another blast at Sai and Leo, Morley suddenly appeared from the ground and subdued Kuma, begging that they go home together. Karasu arrived with the keys, and Morley said they should all head down now.
Meanwhile, in the throne room, Imu appeared before the Five Elders (who were surprised because Cobra was still present) and sat down on the Empty Throne, horrifying Cobra as Imu said Lili's name.

Imu says to a speechless Cobra that they have two things they wish to say to Cobra and only one thing to ask of him. Hearing Imu's name, Cobra comments how similar it is to one of the First Twenty. Imu, however, refuses to confirm his suspicions.
Imu tells Cobra that "D." is the name of their opposers, but none of the people in the world that bear it know of its importance nowadays. Imu says that this recent development's roots goes way back then, which they say is because of a mistake Nefertari Lili made 800 years ago, on par with the scholars of Ohara investigating the Void Century. Imu says that it was all Lili's fault the Poneglyphs were unleashed onto the world, and why pirates use them to search for treasure. Because Imu considers the release of the Poneglyphs the "worst possible outcome" for the First Twenty, they wonder if it was all part of some larger plan. As the Five Elders ready their weapons, Imu tells him that the truth exists in the letter Lili left, and they tell Cobra to address Lili by her full name as written on said letter. Realizing he will not leave the room alive, Cobra announces that Lili's name is "Nefertari D. Lili". In an instant, Imu stabs Cobra with what seems to be an arrow-shaped tail.
Just then, Sabo appears, having been eavesdropping on the conversation, and attacks the Five Elders with Hiken and follows up with Otebisha, but his attack is blocked by the Imu, having all transformed into large creatures. Sabo laments his inability to destroy all of them as a picture of him is taken standing above Cobra, which would be published in the papers. Cobra calls Sabo Luffy's brother and asks why he saved him, and Sabo replies that the Revolutionary Army's conflict is with the corrupt World Nobles. When Sabo asks how Cobra knows Luffy, he informs him that he helped him in the past. Imu and the Five Elders try to attack, so Sabo starts fleeing with Cobra, but he tells him to leave him behind. Sabo refuses, but Cobra explains he needs to be able to escape if he is to deliver a message to Luffy and Vivi. The message is that the Nefertari Family shares the moniker "D.", and he knows what path Arabasta must take now.
A shocked Sabo thinks back to his childhood, and when he learned that both Luffy and Ace had "D." in their names. He gets pulled out of his thoughts when Imu attacks Cobra again and Sabo, injuring both and forcing the latter to drop the former. As Cobra forces himself on his feet, he recites the words of Lili's letter as Imu finally kills him, much to Sabo's horror; Cobra's last wish was for Sabo to relay what he saw and live on. Sabo eventually escapes, but the Five Elder's attention is turned to another eavesdropper, which turns out to be Wapol. Though he hated Cobra, he was absolutely horrified that he was murdered by what he considers the World Government's biggest skeleton in the closet. Wracked with fear, Wapol books it for his life.
Meanwhile, in the Grand Round Table, the kings are told that Cobra and Wapol will not be joining them, which some think is because Cobra exhausted himself giving his speech about abolishing the Seven Warlords of the Sea. As they move to the next topic, Shirahoshi's brothers decide to take her to the Red Port so they do not have to deal with anymore World Nobles, though Shirahoshi was sad she could not say goodbye to Vivi. Speaking of, Vivi ends up restrained by CP0, who she demands they let her free. Kalifa, who was watching over her, informs her that when her disappearance is made known, she'll be living the rest of her life as a pet.
Vivi asks if Shirahoshi is okay, and Kalifa informs her that she emerged from her ordeal unscathed, much to Vivi's relief. Jabra, who was also watching her, claims that the ones who attacked Saint Charlos, Leo and Sai, proudly proclaimed themselves as members of the Straw Hat Grand Fleet. He also reveals that Fujitora ended up helping several slaves escape, which angered Ryokugyu so much that they started going at it.
As Vivi ponders what to do, Wapol crashes through the wall begging to be spared, and Vivi takes the opportunity to escape by jumping into his mouth. The CP0 agents were left stunned by Wapol's sudden action and eventually realize that Vivi had gotten away from them. As he runs, Vivi asks him how long he plans on running, and he says he will run to the edge of the world if he has to. The both of them then cross paths with Kinderella, who comes to believe that Wapol is eloping with Vivi.

The Levely concludes before news of Nefertari Cobra's death was announced. Both his and Vivi's sudden disappearance prompted Igaram, Chaka, and Pell to search everywhere for them. Unbeknownst to both of them, Vivi and Wapol had stowed away on a ship leading to the Eigis Kingdom. Wapol contacts Morgans asking him to pick the both of them up, which he agrees to due to Wapol telling Morgans that he was now the subject of a manhunt after what he just witnessed in the Empty Throne Room. Vivi asks him what exactly he saw there but he refuses to divulge that information, instead telling her to leave him alone and go back to her own ship. Vivi refuses as she understands how dangerously persistent CP0 will be in recapturing her, regardless of how much protection she has. She asks Wapol for the Den Den Mushi he used to contact Morgans so she could notify her father, but he refuses in a panic stating that it is the last thing she should do, confusing her more.
Jewelry Bonney, meanwhile, had snuck aboard a ship heading for Tajine Kingdom, while an injured Sabo hitched a ride on a ship from the Lulusia Kingdom. Once the stories started spreading about what happened, the Five Elders discussed what to do with Sabo now that he knows the truth about the Empty Throne, as they also wanted to deal with the Egghead issue. Just then, Imu contacts the five of them and tells them that the time has come to use one of Dr. Vegapunk's inventions: the Mother Flame. The elders agree that it is time to test its capabilities, with Egghead potentially considering changing its response depending on the outcome. As they decide to pick a forest area for a testing ground, Imu simply says they want the testing site to be the Lulusia Kingdom due to its close proximity, regardless of the people living on the island.
The Five Elders comply with Imu's orders as their names and titles are revealed:
Following the Levely, Marine Headquarters received reports that both the Tajine and Eigis Kingdoms are rebelling. Between the disbandment of the Seven Warlords of the Sea and the uprisings in World Government-affiliated countries, the Marines were plenty busy, even though their military power had shifted in a new direction courtesy of the Seraphim, models including versions of Donquixote Doflamingo, Gecko Moria, and Crocodile.
Back in the present, Sabo tells Emporio Ivankov and Monkey D. Dragon that the second he arrived in Lulusia, King Seki and Princess Komane were immediately arrested by the people. He himself was welcomed by the people and realized it was because the people believed the story that he had assassinated Cobra. He did want to tell them the truth, but when he saw how the lie fanned the flames of rebellion in the people, he could not bring himself to do it. Because of Belo Betty and the other Revolutionary Army commanders, several of the inspired people chose to join him. He knew he could not get his hands on an encryption Den Den Mushi, so he rerouted his call through the island as he was setting sail, confident the World Government would be fooled into thinking he was still on the island when in reality, he was just within range of the island, having set out to sea.
Ivankov asked if Lulusia Kingdom's destruction happened during the call and Sabo confirms, adding that the people from the kingdom became hysterical after losing their families. Dragon is filled with disgust that the World Government would annihilate an entire kingdom so callously and asks how they did it, and Sabo reports he saw a large shadow hovering over the kingdom, which Sabo believed was not a living being or a natural disaster, but something flying directly over the clouds.
Changing topics, Ivankov asks about the name "Imu" and reveals that one of the First Twenty was Saint Imu of the Nerona Family. Since they know there exists a means to grant someone everlasting life, they suspect it has been used on someone before already, so that person no longer has to worry about dying of old age. Sabo begins to wonder if Imu is the very same Imu Ivankov is talking about, but he says it could just be a coincidence and that person just shares the same name. At the same time, however, he doubts who else could have the authority to command the Five Elders; the highest of the World Nobles.
The last thing Ivankov says is that he suspects that the object in the sky was a weapon, and the only one he knows who could make something like that would be Vegapunk. Dragon reminds him that Vegapunk would never create an obvious tool of murder, but Ivankov says he knows this and suspects it is actually one of the Ancient Weapons, assuming that Imu has lived since ancient times, he sees a possible connection. Dragon, however, wonders why one would wait until now to use it.
Back in Mary Geoise, the World Nobles are complaining about their lost food supply, but at the same time, Saint Donquixote Mjosgard has been executed for defending Princess Shirahoshi and fish-men, and the judge was a man named Saint Figarland Garling, a former "champion" of God Valley and the supreme commander of God's Knights.

At the Marine G-1 Branch coastal ship scrapyard, Commodore Brannew tells Jango and Fullbody that when Monkey D. Garp was young, he would use battleships as punching bags as opposed to sandbags, which is why some of the ships have caved-in bows. Jango is left in disbelief that Garp would use ships to train while Fullbody asks why there is a second one with a caved-in bow. Brannew reveals that the other ship was punched by Kuzan back when he was still Garp's student. Brannew then reveals that neither Garp nor Kuzan used Haki or Devil Fruit powers when punching them, so the strength the two acquired was well earned.
On Hachinosu, Garp throws Sanjuan Wolf into the sea, prompting the Blackbeard Pirates to scramble to save him before he drowns. Vasco Shot drinks some alcohol before shooting it at Garp after setting it on fire, a move he calls Shugo Roppu. Garp grabs two pirates and uses them as shields, protecting himself but setting the other two on fire. Avalo Pizarro, who was watching while still merged with the island, asks Garp if he plans on decimating the entire island. The other pirates fear that Blackbeard will kill them if he sees the state the island is in and also fear how Garp is not faltering despite the Blackbeard Pirates' sheer numbers.
Kujaku, who is on board Garp's ship which is now back out at sea, calls Garp asking for the sitrep. Hibari has been defrosted with Tashigi watching over her while Kujaku tells Garp that the captured citizens and injured Marines have all set out, so they can leave whenever. Garp acknowledges this and tells Koby, Prince Grus, and Helmeppo to retreat. However, Kuzan recovers from Garp's last attack and tells his former mentor that he cannot let him leave. Helmeppo starts freaking out as Grus asks Garp if he thinks he is also the "future of the Marines", but his words go unheard as Garp tells the three of them to make for the sea at all costs while he holds off the enemy.
Koby then hears a woman screaming for help, and he immediately rushes to help her, but when he gets close enough, he discovers too late he was set up. Thankfully, Garp saves him from Shiryu, who tries to sneak up on him while invisible and stab him with his sword, which only goes through Garp. Though hurt, Garp punches Shiryu and slams him into the ground, defeating him. Helmeppo and Grus get worried while Koby apologizes for being tricked and needing him to be saved, but Garp explains that Shiryu was aiming at him the whole time. The Blackbeard Pirates start getting hopeful that they can take Garp down now that he's injured, with special motivation being that he is worth around 3,000,000,000 at the Cross Guild. Kuzan rushes forward and tells the others that even if they bind Garp's arms and legs, they still will not be able to kill him. He then prepares to use a move called Ice Glove.
In a flashback, a young Kuzan asks Garp to train him, but Garp refuses, telling him to learn from the instructors, though Kuzan tells him he already knows everything he can from them. Though Garp still told him no, he eventually found himself doing so, with the two of them using battleships as punching bags. At first, Kuzan struggled because he was not as strong as Garp, but as time passed, his punches eventually reached the same level as Garp's. By the time Kuzan became "Admiral Aokiji", his relationship with Garp was still strong, until the present day. Kuzan tells Garp he raised a troublesome enemy in him, but Garp tells Kuzan he is done with him while calling him a foolish student, and they strike each other with Haki-coated fists, creating a huge shockwave that blows both of them back.
Pizarro tells the Marines that their hopes of escaping Hachinosu are slim because of how many pirates are on the island. He also tells them that their ship is not safe from him, and he proves it by morphing part of the island into a giant hand to crush Garp's ship, all the while proudly declaring that this action will make him stand out among the Blackbeard Pirates. Koby desperately begs him to stop, but Garp tells the young captain to calm down because justice will always prevail.

In the past, Monkey D. Garp asks a class of Marine recruits what they would do if they were riding in a boat and could only bring either a baby or an old man onboard. Koby says he will let both of them ride in the boat while he gets off, but Garp throws a marker at him and tells him that answer is wrong. Garp explains that the baby should be saved because the old man does not have much time left to live. He adds that the most important thing that the Marines should be trying to protect is the future of the people, meaning that the survival of babies and young people like Koby is more important than that of an old man. Later, he gets scolded for his lecture and told that all lives are equal, but Garp insists that the future of the young people is limitless.
Several weeks ago, on Amazon Lily, Blackbeard ended up abducting 800 Marine soldiers and stealing one battleship. Koby, however, approached Blackbeard with a proposition: to give himself up in exchange for the release of the soldiers and the ship, which Blackbeard ultimately accepted. In the present, all of the Marines on Garp's ship are panicking because of Avalo Pizarro attempting to crush them with a giant hand made from the island. None of the cannons work against it, so Tashigi orders everyone to abandon ship and protect the civilians.
On the island, Koby is still panicking over Pizarro's threat, but Garp tells him, Prince Grus, and Helmeppo that the three of them can save their allies together. Garp explains that he will provide an opening, Koby will destroy Pizarro's hand, Grus will protect the ship from the debris of the resulting destruction, and Helmeppo must make sure no one interferes with Koby or Grus. Just as Koby is about to tell him that they cannot do something like this, Garp stops him and tells him that they need to be able to make decisions like this in a snap. Immediately, all three of them take off with the other pirates chasing after them. Grus asks if Koby has any weapons with which to stop Pizarro, to which Koby answers that he does not and will have to make do.
Helmeppo uses himself as a shield to keep Koby and Grus from getting hit by one of the pirates' cannon fire while Garp stands back up. Kuzan asks him where he plans on going with injuries like that, but Garp merely calls them scratches as he charges at his former pupil, knocking him down and swiftly making his way all the way to the large skull rock Pizarro was looking through. Pizarro tries to intimidate Garp into standing down, but he fails, as Garp uses a powerful attack called Galaxy Divide to split the rock formation down the middle, while also simultaneously damaging Pizarro's main body. With Pizarro's arm now raised, Koby is granted the opening he was promised and jumps into the air.
Meanwhile, Garp reminisces on a conversation he had with Helmeppo about how Koby has been improving but always has bandages wrapped around his hands. Helmeppo explains he was asked by Koby to keep quiet, but he ultimately reveals to Garp that he had been training intensely in private so he can be one of the best Marines there is. He even went as far as to use Garp's battleship bags to hone his strength, punching them to the point that his fists bled. In the present, Koby comes face-to-face with Pizarro's hand as all of his friends beg him to escape with them, but in a shocking turn of events, Koby unleashes Honesty Impact, a punch that splits Pizarro's entire hand in half.
While Pizarro recoils from the pain, everyone else is left astonished by Koby's incredible feat. Helmeppo catches him while Grus uses Gunyo no Su to create a clay spider web to catch the debris. The three of them get on board the ship and the Marines celebrate just as Garp calls them to report that the mission was a success. When Tashigi asks him to come back quickly, Garp instructs everyone to leave the island, assuring them that he can save himself and that their safety is the top priority. He also tells them that this event will become known as a threat to all pirates as he calls them the "future of the Marines". Koby immediately wants to go back for him, but Grus refuses to disobey Garp's order.
Having been impaled by Kuzan with a sword of ice that is also freezing him, Garp lies on the ground but simply laughs as the other Blackbeard Pirates surround him. The narration then reveals that in tomorrow's newspaper, the major headlines included Koby's rescue, Garp's disappearance, and Monkey D. Luffy barricading himself on Egghead, which is being approached by the fleet of Marine warships.

The people of Dawn Island are discussing the news of Luffy and Garp's recent exploits. In the article about Garp, they notice he has not been officially labeled as dead following his disappearance on Hachinosu. Woop Slap assures them that Garp will be fine due to his status as a legend, which Makino agrees with. Woop Slap hears someone laughing and yells at the source, only to apologize once he realizes it is Makino's child. Makino notices that her baby has become familiar with Luffy's face from all the newspaper photos. Elsewhere, on Mt. Colubo, Dadan reacts tearfully to the news, while Dogra and Magra begin to feel the ground rumbling.
An earthquake of unprecedented scale is then seen taking place around the entire world, with its ramifications being felt throughout various locations (examples including Loguetown, Kano Country, Rakesh, the Twin Cape, Water 7, Wano Country, Impel Down, and Mary Geoise) and by the inhabitants of those locations (such as Laboon, Iceburg, Momonosuke, Imu, and many others). The significance of this event would go unnoticed due to no one being able to pinpoint its epicenter: the destruction of Lulusia Kingdom that took place six days ago. A ship sent to investigate the incident arrives at the site of Lulusia's destruction, where they find a massive, gaping hole in the ocean, one that resembles a circular waterfall and leaves no trace of the kingdom. The earthquake caused the worldwide sea level to rise by roughly one meter, resulting in many islands becoming partially or fully flooded. Woop Slap watches the turbulent waves from Foosha Village, confused as to what is happening.
Meanwhile, the fleet of Marines receives news of the rising water levels as they close in on Egghead. The fleet is said to far outclass that of a Buster Call, and is made up of over one hundred ships, including twenty warships and thirty thousand Marines in total. The operation is being led by nine Vice Admirals and Admiral Kizaru, the latter of whom is eating aboard one of the ships while communicating with Sentomaru via Den Den Mushi. Sentomaru berates Kizaru for having just destroyed one of the Sea Beast Weapons despite the fact that it had attacked first. Kizaru asks Sentomaru if he can surrender and return to them, but Sentomaru warns him that he will retaliate if Kizaru keeps attacking. He tells Kizaru that Vegapunk modeled the Pacifistas' lasers after the research he did on Kizaru's powers, and expresses disbelief at the fact that they are now coming to eliminate him. Kizaru replies that studying the Void Century is a crime even he cannot defend, and that he is simply following orders. Despite this, he admits that a battle would not be in their best interests since any destruction would lead to losses for the World Government. Kizaru makes the assumption that CP0 failed in their mission, which Sentomaru confirms was a result of the Straw Hat Pirates' interference.
Inside one of the warships, Saturn, who is accompanied by Vice Admiral Doberman and several other guards, asks that no one be made aware of his presence as he reads the title of the newspaper article. Doberman informs him it was the work of Morgans, prompting Saturn to ask for the truth. Doberman explains that they have yet to receive word that CP0 has completed their mission, but based on Sentomaru continuing to defend the island, they can assume that Dr. Vegapunk, his satellites, the Seraphim, the Straw Hats (who are allegedly allied with Vegapunk), and the trio of CP0 agents are all in the Labophase, and that the other Cipher Pol agents were seemingly imprisoned in the Fabiriophase by Sentomaru and his Mark III Pacifista units. Due to the Frontier Dome being fully active, they are certain that nobody can enter or leave the Labophase, but they also have no way of knowing what has happened inside during the last day. Saturn asks about the location of the island's research staff and technicians, to which Doberman answers that they evacuated yesterday but are having their ships' coordinates tracked. Not wanting them to escape in the event that they know too much, Saturn orders the ships to be sunk. Doberman also informs Saturn of Jewelry Bonney's presence on the island, although Saturn-despite knowing her as Kuma's daughter-dismisses any further importance she may hold and says they can leave her.
Kizaru is then informed of a signal that was picked up from Egghead. The call is also being wiretapped in Mary Geoise by the other members of the Five Elders. York introduces herself as the caller and demands to know why they are trying to kill her along with the others, as she was the one who informed them about the Stella Vegapunk's betrayal. Mars tells her she is no different from the real Vegapunk, which York counters by stating she would not have revealed her interest in the Void Century to them if she actually cared about it. When asked by Nusjuro about CP0 and the Straw Hats' status, York claims that since she is the only one contacting them following the previous night and has the Seraphim with her, she is fine. York then asks about the fleet surrounding the island and if it is meant to be a declaration of war, but Ju Peter reveals they have changed their minds and would like her to recreate the Mother Flame. Although she does not know who exactly desires the weapon, York confirms it can be done via the island's power plant on the condition that they do not harm her or the laboratory, which Mars agrees to, along with her request to become a World Noble. Having struck a deal, York then bursts into tears and begs to be saved from being killed by Luffy, much to the shock of Kizaru and the Elders. She is seen chained to the ground and surrounded by the Straw Hats (as well as Bonney, Vegapunk, and Lucci), with Zoro's sword held over her neck while Usopp, who is no longer petrified, arranges the call. Nami and Vegapunk begin to understand the scope of the situation while Luffy, not fully understanding it, assumes they will escape with York as their shield. This prompts Bonney to realize that they are in fact in a hostage situation.

Luffy calls the Five Elders and introduces himself while simultaneously confirming that he and his crew are allies of Dr. Vegapunk, and if they care about York's safety, they should withdraw their fleet from the shore. Mars asks Luffy who is currently alive with him in the Labophase, but just as Luffy is about to tell him, Robin forces him to stop, telling him that they cannot give the enemy any information about their status. Luffy apologizes and asks if they will back down, but Usopp tells him to quit dreaming.
Saturn says that they need to protect three things: York, Punk Records, and the power plant needed to produce the Mother Flame; everything else is expendable. Doberman reminds Saturn that several of their Cipher Pol agents are still on the island, but Saturn explains that he is considering the worst-case scenario and that they need to prioritize the safety of the most important things to them. He does add, however, that Doberman should consider humans no different from insects; if their numbers shrink, they will replenish over time. Ultimately, Doberman accepts Saturn's wishes.
Back in the Labophase, York tells everyone that if they hurt her now that she has made a deal with the World Government, Egghead will be completely destroyed just like Ohara. Her words, however, earns her a smack on the head by Nami, who Zoro tries to calm down. Chopper asks Robin if her injuries have recovered and she confirms. While that is going on, Kaku is seen resting from his own injuries, Luffy and Bonney are eating, and Usopp is trying to get in contact with the underground basement. Lucci notes that both Shaka and Pythagoras have been destroyed while Lilith, Edison, and Atlas are heavily injured. Kaku asks him what he is doing and Lucci simply says he's talking to himself.
Usopp succeeds in getting the communications operating, and he asks the now free Cipher Pol agents if they are alright. It turns out they provided the agents with food, which most of them were deeply grateful for. They ask to be freed but Usopp says they cannot do that, to which they ask to be moved away from the Seraphim instead. It turns out that the four Seraphim have been contained in bubbles made from the same material as the bubble shields used by the Pacifista Mark III, as they have the same properties as Seastone. S-Snake tells the agents that neither of them were ordered to kill them, so they do not need to be scared of them, much to their relief.
Franky then thanks S-Snake for freeing him, Lilith, and Usopp, while Dr. Vegapunk wonders why she did so since he never programmed her to act like that. It is revealed that Luffy crossed paths with S-Snake and mistook her for Hancock, after which he asked her to free his friends, which she did because somehow, she inherited the real Hancock's love for Luffy, which Dr. Vegapunk makes a note of. Luffy thanks S-Snake once again (which she misinterprets as a confession of love, much like how the real Hancock would), while Atlas tells Dr. Vegapunk that she still cannot open the Frontier Dome, which means they are still trapped. York smugly tells them that she locked everything with a password that she has shared with none of them.
Stussy tells Dr. Vegapunk that they are surrounded as he talks to Nami, telling her that they should head in one of the directions her Log Pose recorded in Wano. Nami notices that one of the needles is pointing northeast of Egghead, and Dr. Vegapunk says that that leads to Elbaf, much to the joy of Luffy and Usopp. Dr. Vegapunk says that the crew is fortunate that their ship is on the Labophase Stratum, but since the entire coast is blocked by Marine ships, they will not be able to leave this way. Instead he says they need to head northeast to the other side of the island, which does not have that many ships blocking it. He says that Vegaforce-01 can potentially carry them and their ship past the blockade but it can only fly within the air field of Egghead, after which it will fall down. Thankfully, Franky tells him that they can use the Thousand Sunny's Coup de Burst ability to carry them the rest of the way, which intrigues Dr. Vegapunk.
Atlas admits the plan is sound but reminds them that the Frontier Dome will not let them leave, York once again saying they will never get the password out of her. Unfortunately for her, Vegapunk, Atlas, and Edison get to work trying to crack the code. As for Lilith, Dr. Vegapunk tasks her with commanding the Vegaforce-01, and she starts heading for the mech with Luffy, Bonney, and Franky joining her. Lilith starts gushing over leaving the island for the first time in her life while Luffy says he will miss the food on this island. Bonney shares the sentiment, and they should bring some, but Luffy tells her that Sanji can just cook for them, much to her joy. Luffy then asks Bonney why she is in such a good mood now and she says she feels better that she no longer wants to kill Dr. Vegapunk.
With the fleet, Saturn is notified about the situation by Lucci, who was somehow able to contact him. Saturn asks Kizaru if he can just slip by the Frontier Dome with his powers, but Kizaru tells him that Sentomaru is guarding it. Saturn tells him to ignore him, but Kizaru says that would go against his own ideals. He adds that if they begin their assault, Sentomaru will likely order the Sea Beast weapons and Pacifista to attack. Saturn asks about the power plant and Kizaru admits that Lucci was able to relay that information to them. With that, the ships get into battle formation, with the Rokushiki users being put on standby as the assault will begin soon and the bombardment unit being told to aim for the Sea Beast weapons instead of the Pacifista.
Luffy's group reaches the Thousand Sunny and Vegaforce-01 just as Kizaru uses Yata no Kagami to reach the island. Sentomaru intercepts him as Luffy senses Kizaru's strength and says that someone strong is coming.

The siege begins as several Marines open fire on the Pacifista, but several ships are overturned and destroyed by the Sea Beast weapons, prompting the Vice Admirals to take action. Dr. Vegapunk is confused that they would attack with Sentomaru on standby, leading the Straw Hats to realize that Kizaru was sent to take him out. Dr. Vegapunk apologizes to Sentomaru for having him face someone so strong and says he would understand if he wants to flee.
Speaking of, Kizaru kicks Sentomaru far away and uses Yasakani no Magatama to fire several light beams, all the while telling him that he should just surrender. Sentomaru runs from his attack as he declares that he gave his word to the Straw Hats to fend him off. He grabs his ax and jumps into the air as Kizaru asks when he became friends with pirates, and Sentomaru responds that he will side with anyone who offers to help Dr. Vegapunk escape safely.
As the two fight, a flashback reveals that Dr. Vegapunk and Borsalino met Sentomaru after he had beaten up some bears that the two were tasked with dealing with. Borsalino figured that Sentomaru was kicked out of the local village as Sentomaru says that he just needs a job that pays well and will allow him to buy as much onigiri as he would like, so Dr. Vegapunk asks Sentomaru to be his bodyguard, which he accepts with glee.
In the present, Kizaru comments on how cute Sentomaru was back then and how he taught him as much as he could to fight, just as Sentomaru hits him with Ashigara Palm. Kizaru endures and blasts Sentomaru to the ground, defeating him. After that Kizaru takes Sentomaru's command chip and orders the Pacifista to turn on the Sea Beast Weapons and defend the Marines, which they start doing. Saturn witnesses this and tells Kizaru to keep him updated on all casualties.
On the Labophase, everyone witnesses Sentomaru's defeat, but Dr. Vegapunk, Edison, and Atlas continue to work to take down the Frontier Dome. Dr. Vegapunk also reveals to the Straw Hats that since Kizaru is made of light, he can easily slip past the laser barrier, which he ultimately does. His presence sets off the emergency siren, which alerts Luffy's group as they continue to make way to the back of the island. The Straw Hats try to warn Luffy to speed up, but Rob Lucci makes his move and tries to kill Dr. Vegapunk, only for Stussy to use herself as a shield, taking the blow.
As Stussy collapses to the ground, Sanji grabs a bubble gun and seals Kaku inside as Lucci's next attack gets blocked by Zoro, who calls him a coward for waiting for backup. Lucci ignores him and tells everyone that now that he and Kizaru are working together, they won't be leaving the island alive. Zoro simply pushes Lucci out and reminds him not to underestimate them.
Kizaru finds the Vegaforce-01, but is greeted by Luffy, who immediately kicks him as Kizaru blocks. Luffy confidently states that he and his crew are a hundred times stronger than they were two years ago on Sabaody, so this will not be like last time.

Bartholomew Kuma has reached Mary Geoise and has unleashed an Ursus Shock attack which has devastated several buildings. Sakazuki confronts Kuma as several World Nobles appear complaining about the lack of food and demanding that he execute Kuma for injuring all of them in his rampage. Sakazuki tells Kuma that if the World Government cannot control him anymore, then they can't let him live. However, what he personally does not understand is his motivations since he has lost his sense of self. As he says that, he attacks Kuma with Meigo, destroying a portion of his face. Kuma starts running but Sakazuki fires a blast of magma that destroys one of his legs, but he still manages to teleport away. After he flees, Sakazuki thinks back to when they captured Bonney two years ago and he told her that Kuma had willingly offered himself to become a weapon, which Bonney refused to believe at the time. As the World Nobles yell at Sakazuki for letting Kuma escape, he continues to wonder where Kuma is going.
On Egghead, the Sea Beast Weapons are destroyed by the Pacifista, allowing the Marines to land. Luffy has transformed into Gear 4: Snakeman and is barraging Kizaru with his punches which Kizaru blocks, but even he admits that Luffy has become a formidable opponent since defeating Kaidou. Kizaru asks Luffy why he is protecting Dr. Vegapunk, but Luffy retorts by asking why he wants to kill him anyway. Kizaru warps far away from Luffy and admits he does not personally want to kill him because he has known him for a long time, but does not have a choice. With blinding speed, Kizaru kicks Luffy so hard he flies into Vegaforce-01, completely destroying it and sending him into the Frontier Dome's barrier.
The Thousand Sunny falls out of the destroyed robot's hands as Franky, Bonney, and Lilith run away from the exploding robot. Kizaru confronts the two and comments how much Bonney has grown, and he asks why she is getting in his way of killing Dr. Vegapunk, who she is supposed to hate. Bonney, however, grabs a wire and uses Toshi Tsuki, declaring that her target has shifted. Kizaru easily dodges her, asks her not to make him hurt anyone else he knows, and then kicks her into the barrier as well. Franky charges up a Radical Beam, but Kizaru has disappeared.
Franky realizes where Kizaru must be going and contacts Usopp to warn him just as Dr. Vegapunk, Edison, and Atlas crack the code to the Frontier Dome. Just as Dr. Vegapunk asks if Franky has brought Vegaforce-01 and the ship to the other side of the island, Kizaru appears telling Dr. Vegapunk that his plans have been foiled. He tells Dr. Vegapunk that this mission is tough on him so he doesn't want to drag it out, but before he can do anything, Luffy reappears after reactivating Gear 5 and using his Gomu Gomu no Gigant technique, grabbing Kizaru with his hand.
The sound of Luffy's heartbeat reaches down to the Fabiriophase, and the Iron Giant seems to activate in response to his transformation.

Luffy swings Kizaru around and eventually throws him far away from the Control Tower, giving everyone a window of opportunity to escape. Atlas decides to head for the Fabiriophase to steal back control of the Pacifista Mark III, knowing that they will be a hindrance to their escape. Dr. Vegapunk decides to join Atlas and he contacts Franky to inform him that Bonney is still alive but on the Fabiriophase. Sanji offers to join the two to find her while Jinbe gathers Dr. Vegapunk's luggage, telling everyone to meet up at the back exit.
On the Fabiriophase, the Marines start looking for Bonney, who is using her Devil Fruit powers to incapacitate several Marines by changing their age. As she hides, she looks at the unconscious Sentomaru, remembering how he caught her after she hit the Frontier Dome's barrier and fell before passing out again. Meanwhile, Luffy sees Zoro fighting Lucci, with the former reminding his captain to keep focusing on Kizaru. After trading a few blows, Zoro tells Lucci that with his level of power, he will not let him face Luffy. In response, Lucci says he would be better off killing Zoro since he is practically Luffy's "No. 2".
As for Kizaru, he manages to avoid falling into the sea and uses Yasakani no Magatama to return to the island at lightspeed. Once he catches up to Luffy, he turns the individual light particles into copies of himself, all of which use Ama no Murakumo to create light swords to attack him, though they surprisingly do minor damage to Luffy. He responds to Kizaru's attack by using Gomu Gomu no Dawn Whip to destroy a few, before making a run for it. As the copies chase after him, Luffy reveals that he was getting them lined up to take them all out at once with Gomu Gomu no Dawn Stamp. Much to his misfortune, he realizes that Kizaru used those copies to distract Luffy long enough to return to the Control Tower, where he grabs Usopp.
Kizaru realizes that Dr. Vegapunk is no longer present, and both he and Luffy see him and Atlas riding a contraption called Vegatank-08, with Sanji hanging on the outside. Dr. Vegapunk declares that he is on his way to save Bonney. Kizaru tries to blast him, but Luffy takes the shot. Franky joins the three as he tells Lilith to use General Franky to carry the Thousand Sunny.
On the coast, the Marines are informed that Dr. Vegapunk has left the Labophase. Edison partially disables the Frontier Dome, allowing Dr. Vegapunk to exit safely, and Atlas issues a new command to the Pacifista to annihilate all the Marines on the island.

Thanks to Atlas, the Pacifistas begin attacking the Marines. Dr. Vegapunk's group continue to make their way down to the Fabiriophase and Sanji detects Bonney's location. Immediately Sanji makes his way to her location as she gets attacked by a Vice Admiral. She pulls out a gun and uses a move called NDE (Near Death Experience) to trick the Marines attacking her to think that they have died when in reality the shock has knocked them out. Bonney makes a run for it but gets cornered by a Vice Admiral named Bluegrass, who has eaten the Nori Nori no Mi, which allows her to ride on and control whatever it is that she is riding. In this case, she is riding PX-III 046, which she uses on Bonney.
As PX-III 046 starts charging up, Bonney hesitates due to how it is a clone of her father. Thankfully Sanji gets her out of the way and tells her that she needs to accept that these clones are not him. He dodges the Vice Admiral that attacked Bonney earlier and brings her back to the Vegatank-08. Meanwhile on the Labophase, Kizaru and Luffy's battle continues with both of them having grown exhausted. Kizaru moves to attack Vegapunk but just as Luffy starts chasing him, the both of them, Zoro, Lucci, and Jinbe all get an uneasy feeling.
Their feeling ends up being justified as Saturn orders the Pacifistas to stop. When they do, it does not take long for Vegapunk and Atlas to realize who was responsible. Soon, what appears to be a magic circle forms on the ground and all Marines are informed that Saturn has arrived on the island. All lower-ranking officers, commodores and below, are ordered to not look directly at him as he appears from the circle having transformed into a large demonic spider hybrid; Saturn makes eye contact with one Marine who accidently looks at him and kills the Marine by telekinetically exploding his head.
While Sanji's group is distracted by Saturn's arrival, Kizaru destroys the cloud road they were using, causing them to fall. Luffy finally catches up to Kizaru and hits him in the side of his head using a move called Gomu Gomu no Star Gun, which even Kizaru realizes has hurt him badly. Unfortunately for Luffy, he has reached his limit with his form, and he changes back to normal and falls to the ground in a nearly unconscious state. The Vegatank-08 also hits the ground and breaks, but thankfully everyone within is okay.
As they pick themselves up, Saturn appears before them. Dr. Vegapunk recognizes Saturn, who tells Vegapunk that he should have been dead already. Bonney becomes filled with rage as thoughts about her father run through her head, and she grabs a nearby katana and stabs Saturn in the chest as tears flow from her eyes.

Low ranking Marines are told to maintain distance from the center while Vice and Rear Admirals stay behind, the reason being that lower ranked soldiers are not "worthy" of being in Saturn's presence. Some Marines react to his arrival with shock and confusion while others prepare to open fire on Bonney for stabbing Saturn. Saturn, however, orders everyone to stand down, claiming that if he did not want to get stabbed, he would have dodged. He forces Bonney off him by emitting something from his eyes and he grabs her, also taking out the sword. Sanji tries to help her but he gets hurt by the same attack and falls to the ground. The wound Saturn suffers then heals instantly to Franky's shock.
Some Marines try to take advantage of the situation and capture Dr. Vegapunk, but Saturn orders them to stop, stating they have nowhere to run. He then insults Kizaru for taking so long to complete his job and Kizaru weakly apologizes, saying that he will not be able to move for a while. Saturn understands why that is and walks over to Luffy, who he immediately tries to stab with one of his legs. Franky, thankfully, pushes Luffy out of the way with Strong Right and then grabs him, bringing him back to his side. Saturn acknowledges the strength of the Straw Hat Pirates while Franky laughs that it was interesting even the World's leaders want Luffy dead.
Saturn says that Luffy's and Bonney's presence on Egghead was unexpected, but they are surrounded and the island is on the brink of destruction, though he would like to see them attempt to escape. He tells Dr. Vegapunk that he is disappointed by his "betrayal" but thanks him for his contributions. He then says that he wants everyone present to die in the most painful manner possible for defying the World Government and asks why when humans are told not to do something they do it anyway. All the while, he tightens his grip on Bonney, causing her pain, but no one can help her because he is keeping everyone down, which Vegapunk suspects is because of his Devil Fruit power.
Bonney looks at Saturn and tells him that he killed her father, but Saturn reveals that Kuma was born a slave and a member of the Buccaneers, which according to him, had committed a grave crime, and have now all gone extinct with Kuma the sole survivor. He then holds Bonney up in the air and orders the Marines to aim for her head while Sanji and Vegapunk demand him to stop. In Bonney's mind, she remembers Kuma telling her that long ago, Kuma wanted to become a hero who would save people from suffering like Nika. Bonney asks if Nika would set her free too, and Kuma confidently says he will.
A flashback starts taking place 47 years ago. In Sorbet Kingdom, Bartholomew Kuma was born to a Buccaneer man named Clapp and a human woman. Despite Clapp's wishes, his blood information was leaked to the World Government, which caused them all to be captured and enslaved by the World Nobles. Kuma was worked to the bone and beaten by his master, and one day, his father told him that his mother had died. Kuma had a complete breakdown, but his father told him that the Warrior of Liberation, Nika, would one day save him, so he must endure. He started dancing and singing in the rhythm of Nika's heartbeat to cheer him up, but was then shot and killed for being too loud.
Several years later, in West Blue, the World Nobles organized the triennial tournament during which they would eradicate an entire population of an island. The site of that year's tournament was God Valley, which was unaffiliated with the World Government and despised by the World Nobles for its name. Their goal was to kill all the people on the island and some of their troublesome slaves, and then claim the island and its rich resources in the name of the World Government. The king tried to stop them, but he was killed by Figarland Garling, who suffered a massive deduction, yet he felt it would give the other contestants a good handicap.
Saturn was present during the event and was informed that Kuma had been recaptured after attempting to escape. The ones who had done so, however, were other slaves, who told him that if he ran away, the rest of them would die too. They were stopped by the arrival of a young Emporio Ivankov and his sister Ginny. He spotted Kuma and said that he had heard that the Buccaneers share the blood of the Giants. Ivankov proudly proclaimed that he would live on and asked if Kuma would do the same.

The World Nobles explained the rules of the Native Hunting Competition: Among the Rabbits were thirteen "Super Rare Rabbits" (worth 10,000 points each) and 150 "Rare Rabbits", any one-shot kill would earn an "Excellent Bonus", and luxurious prizes were offered for the champion of the competition. Some World Nobles tried to get a head start but they were stopped and informed that the hunt would begin in an hour, giving the people time to run and hide. Several of them were running desperately for their lives and begging it all to be a dream, while others claimed that it was not right for humans to treat other humans as their toys.
Meanwhile, Kong contacted Monkey D. Garp, who was on vacation. Kong wanted Garp to go to Hachinosu but he would not say why, because if something happened, he would be in trouble. Garp surmised that Kong was talking about the World Nobles' "field trip" and reminded Kong that he had told him many times not to mess with Hachinosu, and not to underestimate the Rocks Pirates wanting to take back the island's "treasure". Garp then asked what Kong had to be scared of if he had escorts, but when Kong mentioned Roger was involved, Garp immediately declared that he was going. However, the Rocks Pirates had already left Hachinosu.
On God Valley, while the competition was underway, Ivankov started rallying several people by telling them that none of them would escape from this "game" alive, and when it was all said and done, the events would be hidden from the history books. Some people believed that they would go free if they survived the three weeks of the competition, but Ivankov stated that was a lie to give them false hope in order to make the game more interesting. Therefore, if they wanted to live, they needed to move right now.
With help from a shark fish-man, Ivankov was freed from his chains, and Ginny told everyone that two of competition's prizes would be their means of escape: the Uo Uo no Mi, Model: Seiryu and the Nikyu Nikyu no Mi. Ivankov said that with these two Devil Fruits, they could make it off the island and past the Marine blockade, but the problem was that the fruits were in the center of the island. However, Ginny revealed that she was skilled in thieving, wiretapping, and broadcasting, and all of this information had been leaked to the outside world about two weeks ago, so she was positive someone had heard it. When Ginny said that they needed a decoy for this plan to work, Kuma volunteered, citing that his strong physiology would protect him, and he would rather risk his own life than others. Ivankov accepted but stated that he would not let Kuma die either.
Soon, the Rocks Pirates and other pirate crews started attacking the Marines, catching them off guard. Rocks ordered his crew to seize the treasure, and several of them, including Edward Newgate, Shiki, Buckingham Stussy, Charlotte Linlin, Kaidou, and Gloriosa made their way onto the island, and pretty soon, Roger and his pirate crew did too. The God's Knights tried to defend the World Nobles and eventually Garp and his soldiers arrived to back up the Marines, leading to an all-out conflict.
During the fight, Ivankov and Kuma managed to acquire the two Devil Fruits. However, before Ivankov could eat the Uo Uo no Mi, Model: Seiryu, Linlin slammed him into a wall and took the fruit. She tried to take the Nikyu Nikyu no Mi as well, but Ivankov told Kuma to quickly eat it and save himself. Right after Kuma ate the fruit, he was attacked by Jaygarcia Saturn. Saturn told Kuma that as a member of the Buccaneers, he existed only to live and die as a slave, as decided by the course of history. Kuma, however, stood up to Saturn and told him that it did not make sense for people to be born important or a slave. He proclaimed that he would emulate Nika and use his power to save the weak and defenseless, but Saturn simply stated that this was why Kuma and his people would be eliminated. Afterwards, the events on God Valley vanished into the darkness of history.
Despite the chaos, Kuma, Ivankov, and Ginny were able to escape God Valley along with more than 500 other people. The three went into hiding in Sorbet Kingdom and stayed in the church that Kuma's parents once managed. Ivankov realized that no information about God Valley had been revealed to the public aside from Garp's now legendary reputation. Kuma started praying for a while as he stated that he wished he could have saved more lives, but Ivankov and Ginny would tell him that he had done more than enough and that Kuma's hands had brought freedom to the people, calling them the "Hands of Liberation."
After that, Ivankov decided to head out on his own while Kuma and Ginny remained in Sorbet, with the three hoping to see each other again. Ginny told Kuma that from that day forward, she would be his big sister since she was older than him. The two began chopping wood to sell and make money. When Kuma was accosted by some kids who called him a monster for his size, Ginny beat them up in his defense, and Kuma apologized and used his powers to push their pain out of their bodies, much to their joy.
That night the two were eating dinner, with Kuma remarking on how much of a big eater Ginny turned out to be. The two then broke down into tears of joy over their freedom and newfound happiness.

Eight years pass following the God Valley Incident, and Kuma, now 17 years old, had continued to live peacefully in Sorbet Kingdom and been using his powers to push people's pain out of their bodies, which had earned him much respect from the old folk. They asked if he could do this for them on weekdays, but Ginny, now 21, strictly stated that he could only do this for them on Sundays. She was also annoyed that these people treated the church like a camp or a hospital and did not even pay for his services. The old folk, however, laughed at her stinginess and mused that her foul-mouth had not stopped many men from professing their love for her, as she was quite the beauty. Some other people dropped by asking for Kuma, saying that his face calmed them. Kuma was touched by this, though Ginny retorted that he pampered these people way too much. One of the old folk stated that they would pay if they could, but the Heavenly Tribute was making it difficult for them to make ends meet.
It turned out that Sorbet Kingdom had received a new king named Bekori, and he was reputed to be a cold-blooded tyrant who sent sick people that could not pay the tribute to a terrible prison where they would eventually die of starvation because he refused to feed them. In short, the people considered him caring more for what the World Nobles say than the voices of the people he was supposed to protect. Kuma told his patients that he would continue to treat them for light pain and sickness, so they could come every week, which they deeply appreciated.
At night, once all the people left, Kuma took the bubble of pain and sickness he had removed from the people and took it into his own body, causing him great discomfort and deeply saddening Ginny. As Ginny treated him, she tearfully told him that no one knew that he was doing this to himself. Kuma said that he had no choice because if someone did not take in that bubble of pain, it would eventually return to the person it had come from. But it made people happy, and that was more than enough for him. He apologized to her for making her worry, and the two ate together.
Five years later, Ginny proposed to Kuma, but he rejected her, much to her annoyance as she believed she could make him happy. Kuma stated, though, that he already was, but in reality, he feared that because of his Buccaneer blood, she may suffer the same way he and his mother had done. He shifted topics to discuss the Freedom Fighters and the protests they had been starting in every kingdom, and now the World Government had finally issued a warrant for them. Kuma took notice of Monkey D. Dragon and stated he viewed him as a cool person, and that someday, he would set out to sea and spend his life helping others. He then went to receive some fish brought to Ginny by some other would-be suitors, much to her annoyance.
Three years later, Kuma demanded that the kingdom's soldiers return all of the people they kidnapped, but they refused, saying that the law said they could use them however they saw fit. Enraged, Kuma attacked them, causing him to be called a traitor. It turned out that King Bekori had split Sorbet Kingdom in two: The northern half of the island was the "true" kingdom for people who could pay the Heavenly Tribute, while everyone else that made too little was cut off and resided in the "Lawless Area." As a result of Kuma's defiance, he was imprisoned, and Ginny and several others who tried to help him followed suit. Kuma knew that if this policy continued this kingdom would discriminate against others, and Ginny said that if they fought against the king, who was under the World Nobles' thumb, it was the equivalent of fighting against the entire World Government.
However, the Freedom Fighters invaded Sorbet and deposed Bekori, abolishing the slave policy and freeing the kingdom from the oppressive government. Dragon and Ivankov then found Kuma locked up and the latter invited him to join and change their world for the better. Together, Dragon, Ivankov, and Kuma would go on to reform the Freedom Fighters as the Revolutionary Army following the Ohara Incident, turning their small bouts of protesting into a full-scale rebellion. Due to lacking funds, they became mercenaries lending their services to other rebellions against their oppressors, and Dragon offered to train anyone who decided to join up. Kuma was surprised that Dragon knew how to use weapons, and he stated he had once served the Marines, but quit because he had seen no "justice" there. Ivankov commented that Dragon just wanted to help people, and Kuma proclaimed his loyalty to him, which Dragon accepted.
Eight years later, Ginny, who also had joined the army and served as a Captain, expressed happiness at meeting up with Kuma's division. Unfortunately, she was captured by an unexpected enemy, and Dragon was quickly notified of this distress.

At Baltigo, a request for backup is sent to the headquarters from South Blue, as the Revolutionary Army stationed there is struggling with the Tumi uprising. Ivankov responds that they cannot because their hands are full dealing with the injured at Goa Kingdom. Kuma, however, says he can go, but Ivankov warns him that he is being rash, even stating that he has become more reckless since "that day". It turns out that Ginny was captured by the World Government and forced to become the wife of a World Noble, which is why Kuma has been continuously enraged.
Two years pass and Ginny ends up contacting the army, but to their horror, she reports that she got sick, which is why they threw her out of the Holy Land. The reason for her calling was to inform them of this and that it would be her goodbye to them. Kuma begs her to tell him her location so he can go to her, but she tells him that she is dying, and he should not see it. Kuma still insists and he immediately heads for the one place he knew she would be: the chapel in Sorbet Kingdom. When he arrives, though, he is too late; she has passed away. The people told him when her skin was exposed to sunlight her entire body turned blue and hardened like stone, but the only reason she could have had to burn up her remaining time was to protect something - her baby daughter, Bonney. Kuma buries Ginny and promises to her that he will raise her child well.
Kuma did his best to raise the small Bonney, who inherited her mother's appetite, and she quickly came to see him as her father. He of course still fought with the Revolutionary Army, but he would always make time to care for her. One day, he boards up all of the church's windows, and it is because Bonney somehow inherited the same disease that killed Ginny. Kuma brought her to many doctors but they could not treat her because of how peculiar the disease is. Ultimately, Kuma chooses to quit the army so he can take care of Bonney, which Dragon accepts, even offering to find doctors himself to help.
By the time Bonney was five years old, children started making fun of her for never going outside, going so far as to call her a vampire. Bonney, however, was able to defend herself, and would pound those kids. Kuma reminds her that it is dangerous for her to go outside, and Bonney apologizes. She then says that the kids also made fun of the stone under her eye, but he tells her that it looks like a jewel to him, and those kids were just jealous, which makes Bonney happy to hear. While they play together, Kuma asks Bonney where she would like to go on a trip after she gets better, and she says she would like to go to the legendary sky islands since they are so close to the sun, so they might meet Nika. Kuma agrees that they can go there for her twentieth birthday, with Fish-Man Island being the destination of her nineteenth birthday.
Unfortunately, Kuma meets with a doctor who informs him that the disease Bonney has is "Sapphire Scales" and is incurable, and even if she is not exposed to sunlight, she will likely die by the age of ten, which breaks Kuma's heart. As Kuma ponders about what to do, Bonney reveals she overheard him talking with the doctor, and he confirms that her condition will continue until she is ten years old, but due to his phrasing, Bonney misinterprets the meaning as that she will be cured by the time she becomes ten years old. Unable to tell her the truth, Kuma goes along with it.
One year later, Kuma is informed by the people that Bekori is attempting to rid the kingdom of its weak and elderly once again, and has now gone completely insane as he seeks to burn people in their homes.

Kuma saves as many people as he can from Bekori's cruel actions despite everyone else fearful for his own life. As the fire rages from afar, Bekori says that he took inspiration from a kingdom in the East which did something similar to curry favor with the World Nobles. He also says that the only way a kingdom can become rich and powerful is if someone is willing to do the devil's work. He is met with opposition from the people, but Bekori simply says they are not seeing the bigger picture, so he orders some of them killed. Kuma, however, finally arrives at the castle and completely demolishes it despite Bekori's warning of the potential consequences. As a result, this night would go down in history as Sorbet's "Solo Revolution".
In the Holy Land, Saturn is informed of Sorbet receiving a new king. The king is said to be Kuma himself as the people desperately wanted him and he did so... but only in name. In reality, the kingdom is being ruled by the previous king before Bekori, Bulldog, who the people were very fond of. Kuma still resided in his church healing the elderly with his powers, though the people would still call him their king.
One day, Kuma and several others see a grown up Bonney running around, which shocks everyone as she is supposed to be ten years old. Bonney says she was trying to build up her stamina so she can sail with her father, but even she was unaware of her current condition. When she looks in the mirror, her own shock causes her to change back into a little girl, and Gyogyo realizes Bonney has eaten a Devil Fruit, which they learn is the Toshi Toshi no Mi. Bonney tries practicing making herself look old, but Kuma does not want her to overexert herself. That is when Bulldog appears in the church requesting an audience with Kuma. At the same time, he brought his mother, the Queen dowager Conney, whom Gyogyo mistakenly thinks is Bonney that successfully made herself an old woman.
The reason for Bulldog meeting Kuma was to inform him that Bekori is plotting another comeback based on this demonizing propaganda going around claiming Kuma is an evil tyrant by taking the throne by force and setting fires himself. The people are outraged by Bekori's depravity and Bulldog says that Bekori still has the backing of the World Government, and with them he will most likely make a play to reclaim the throne by force. The people tell Kuma they do not want Bekori back, which he reciprocates, and he says he will fight back even though it means he will not be able to stay in the country because the government will brand him a criminal. With that said, Kuma asks Bulldog to become Sorbet's official king and to take Bonney in for her safety, all of which Bulldog accepts. Kuma then parts ways with Bonney saying he'll be back as soon as he can.
Sure enough, Bekori returned with an armada of Marine ships, all of which Kuma sunk. After that, he set to sea and became a pirate, with his incredible power leading him to acquire a bounty. As he sailed around the world, he would visit places he would later send the Straw Hat Pirates to, such as Torino Kingdom, Kuraigana Island (where he was attacked by Abdullah and Jeet who tried to claim his bounty and failed miserably), Karakuri Island, Weatheria, and the Boin Archipelago, where he tried to gain some clue to save Bonney, but his attempts fail.
Eventually Kuma crosses paths with the Revolutionary Army and he reunites with Dragon who he catches up with. Kuma is asked by Belo Betty if she could become the commander of the East Army, as Dragon would not let anyone else be the commander without Kuma's blessing, which he does. Dragon tells Kuma that Sabo and Koala have come a long way since he last met them and it would be nice if he saw it himself, and Kuma admits he would love to return to the Revolutionary Army one day. That is when Dragon tells Kuma about Dr. Vegapunk, who most recently had to leave Punk Hazard due to Caesar's actions, so security might be lax around him. Kuma immediately heads for him and thanks Dragon for telling him, who tells him to let the winds of fate carry him wherever.
Kuma returns home and reunites with Bonney, who has learned to fight. The two go to the Marines Science Division: Lab 8 (the future Egghead), where Dr. Vegapunk tells Kuma that he can cure Bonney using a technique that has never been used until now, which is stem cell transplant. He does a check up on Kuma and learns he is a Buccaneer, which causes him to ask Kuma to be the template for his clone soldiers, saying it will be the price paid for Bonney's cure. Kuma accepts but asks what the clones will do, and Dr. Vegapunk tells him that they will have bodies so sturdy they can deflect bullets, and will be so powerful that they can subjugate pirates and protect the weak and helpless. Kuma is touched by this and agrees to the offer (though he knew Dragon himself would not be happy with this arrangement) as long as Bonney can live, and Dr. Vegapunk calls him a saint. Kuma corrects him saying he is a pacifist who wants peace, which leads to Dr. Vegapunk dubbing the soldiers "Pacifista".
However, in the Holy Land, Saturn says that Dr. Vegapunk is a fool for not doing more with the project as in his eyes, the soldiers are supposed to be weapons, and the more people they can kill, the more potent they are. As such, he says he has his own plans going forward for the project.